ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38402	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. Please specify the number of MPs present in the O.R. to insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, and we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38403	Dear fellow Members and colleagues, honourable MPs, representatives of the interest of Serbian citizens, dear President, I would like to remind all MPs and the public in the Republic of Serbia that we are currently in the process of electing public prosecutors in senior and lower public prosecutors throughout our republic and that this is a process that is extremely important in the accession process and in particular the achievement of the chapters of opening and closing Chapters 23 and 24. However, I want to remind myself of something that I have repeatedly pointed out here, which is the unequal representation of national minorities in this case of Bosniaks in these institutions. Indeed, the situation on the ground is devastating, and we, for example, in Novi Pazar, have that the representative, the President of the Basic Court, the senior public prosecutor, his deputies, I will even say to the chief of police of the Serb people, or that they are Serbian nationalities. Therefore, I would like to make a suggestion to Minister Selakovic that we should use this moment not on a stick and not further disrupt this structure, but to practically get into solving this problem. I will remind you that this is guaranteed by the Constitution of this country, but also by Article 82 in the position of the 5th of this same Law on the High Prosecutor's Office of the Public Prosecutor, guarantees representation of national minorities and guarantees that they will reflect the population, i.e. the presence of national minorities on the ground and in the very structure of the prosecution. We have five people at the More In Novi Pazar Prosecutor's Office, we have five members of them from the Serb people's ranks, and there is only one Bosniak. Therefore, I would like to instruct the Minister to use this moment to show the citizens who are very interested in this topic in the right way. Citizens in Novi Pazar and Sandzak are closely watching this moment. New Pazar is a November center, Novi Pazar has given birth to a huge number of quality lawyers, and we in Novi Pazar have our own law professors today. This will be a real signal to those people and a real motivation, because once again I say, representatives, court presidents, senior public prosecutors and all other court employees are the Republic of Serbia on the ground and their quality and integrity depend on what respect the Republic of Serbia has on the ground. Justice in this country must be available and accessible to all, and we are the ones who will also travel the way to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38404	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38405	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to refer my first question to the Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, and that is to say - what is the plan for the economic and economic development of the town of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia? I just want to remind the Prime Minister that three years ago he was in a campaign for the republican elections, as well as a year ago and a little more days ago when the republican elections, the citizens of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, were repeated, promised a better life and higher jobs. In the city of Nis after three years of governmental authority of this congregation majority and this government, Nis has over 36% of the unemployed, which is about 40,000 people who are unemployed in the city. In the last three years, only a 50 to 300% property tax has been increased. They've collected utility services, they've accumulated electricity. The price of heating over the city's heat has increased so much that people have started to gather spontaneously, and these are witnesses from the media, they organize protesting in the streets because they don't see how they can get out of the problem they've fallen into as a result of large bills of heating that they can't pay for. What's still interesting, in the last three years, is. From 2010 to 2014, the number of operators that were 3,233 in 2010 and the number of entrepreneurs registered in the APR in 2010 dropped to 2,866 companies in 2014 and decreased by more than 350 companies in the same year and as regards entrepreneurs from 7,765 to 7,564, which is about 200 entrepreneurs. It's just that in the city of Nis, there's a lot of unemployment, that people don't have a way to solve their life problems, they can't be satisfied that they have enough resources for ordinary existence during the month. The justified dissatisfaction of the citizens of Nis must be resolved, Mr. President, so I insist that the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, says what is the plan for the economic and economic development of the town of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, because only the opening of new jobs, by hiring people, will they be able to reconcile their obligations to the state, according to local self-government and have enough resources for a decent and appropriate life. I repeat, what is the economic development plan of the city of Nis? What is the plan for Serbia's economic and economic development? When will you begin to fulfill the promises made to the citizens of Nis that by coming to power, they will live better? Another question I would like to ask Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, and that is – when will you continue to move the railway from the city centre? In 2010, a loan was taken from the World Bank of 9m euros. One and a half million euros were given for a feasibility study. The city of Nis has made planning documents by 2012 and this is a general urban plan that provides for a new route for the removal of the railway. Then, the plan for detailed regulation of the future route of the shifted rail and as a complete geodesy of the complete route. The existing route is projected as a route of light rail transport. The planning documents should have been carried out after 2012 by a further idea project, a major project and a general project and the completion of the starting expropriation of parcels on the future track. The question is, what happened to the loan that was taken at the World Bank, did it fail or was it taken and still used in the realization of this shift of the railroad? When will the procedure of moving the railroad from the city centre continue? So I've been asking this question three times already and I haven't received an answer from the Ministry and the Prime Minister, and I'm afraid that the delay in solving the problem of moving the waterline to think that at the last moment when the entire route moved between Nis and Dimitrovgrad will be electrified into "extreme" the existing route through Nis. I note that the City Assembly has uniquely voted on several occasions and positions and opposition to remove the railway from the city centre and ask the Government to respond when will this process be continued and completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38406	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38407	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the minister of education, science and technological development of Mr Srdjan Verbic. As is already known, there is a parliamentary office in Nis which opened in 2012 as a pilot of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly, the Office for Direct Communication of People's MPs with citizens. In the previous period, a large number of citizens appeared to the Office asking for some help to resolve certain issues, but certain associations, NGOs and the institutions of the city of Nis also appeared, giving specific proposals and initiatives. These days, Nis again launched an initiative to enable teachers, educators and experts from central and Southeastern Serbia to pass exams for a teacher's license, as the educational institution of the town of Nisa Regional Centre for Professional Development of Professional Education employees Nis, as a place to pass these exams, met all the conditions. The reasons for launching this initiative are multiple. The problem is that teaching license exams are only in Belgrade and Novi Sad, Novi Sad for Vojvodina candidates, and Belgrade for candidates from the rest of Serbia. As it is a large number of teachers, the place for laying for the rest of Serbia is one thing, teachers have been waiting years for the term for the professional examination to be passed in order to obtain a license. The problem is that travel costs to Belgrade for candidates from Serbia's central and southeastern parts are much higher than those of Nis, and as the exam is passed in more parts and more days, it requires a stay in Belgrade and, of course, additional costs incurred by local self-government, but also candidates themselves. In order to avoid or reduce accommodation costs, Serbia's internal candidates usually take an early test in the morning in Belgrade to pass the oral part, and in the afternoon or tomorrow, in a completely different place, the practical part of the exams precedes further travel and expenses. Very often, there is an absurd situation that travels to Belgrade from the Nis School Administration, as representatives of the Ministry of Education as interrogators and teachers from Nis as an interrogator. Every counselor's trip and journal is paid by the Republic, and the teacher's local self-government. If this were made possible in Nis, these costs would be gone. As a place to pass all exams, the Regional Centre for Professional Development of the Nis Education Employees is proposed. The Regional Centre for Education Nis is very specific, and its main purpose is to create, organise and implement seminars for the professional training of educators, such as the organisation and realization of exams for the license of teachers, educators and professional associates. The Nish Regional Center has all the resources to organise these tests. It would be a place where an examination of the teachers of the oral part of the exam was organised. There is an opportunity for education and the establishment of an exam committee, as well as organised co-operation with schools that would implement a practical part of this exam. In the immediate vicinity of the Niš Education Centre, there are several secondary and primary schools, and with the immediate proximity of the “Sveti Sava” elementary school, which provides for the passing of a practical part of the exam, since the subjects must practically maintain the time. There's a school board seat in Nis. Nis is a university town and provides interrogators from the order of teachers. The benefits of passing exams in Nis – reducing the cost of the Republic, reducing the costs of local administration, reducing the costs of candidates, decentralisation of Serbia that we all talk about, there is no long waiting and obtaining a license, as has been the case so far for many years, there are no privileged and discriminated teachers of the north and south of Serbia. A question for Mr. Minister – Mr. Minister, will the Ministry of Education support this initiative and allow teachers of central and Southeastern Serbia to ease and at less cost to the state, local self-government and personal costs down to the lowest level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38408	Time. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38409	Thank you. I have two questions. My first question was addressed to the prime minister, as the Saudi prince today concludes his visit to Serbia. The question is – was he offered for sale several bathrooms, special hospitals and hotels that are state-owned and which, by no means, is it disputed, with additional investment have serious potential? If so, we want to know under what conditions he is offered, given that this should be a transparent process. So, is the Investment Law, recently passed, the reason for the adoption of this law to enable the sale of Serbia's assets under the veil of secrecy? My second question was addressed to Minister Tasovac, given that the previous days did not appear in the media and did not talk about the topic he was supposed to be talking about, and we can see from the media that one of the topics was TANJUG News Agency at the government meeting. I will remind you that under the Law on Public Information and Media, that the transfer of capital procedure was launched immediately after the end of the second round of privatisation, or October 7th, and before the expiry of the TUNJUG Act, employees of this agency could exercise their rights under the Public Information Act and the media. As I said, Minister Tasovac didn't show up anywhere, he wasn't talking about this subject, so there's no official information. According to unofficial information, TANJUG has ceased to exist on 31 October officially, and all employees should receive severances under the law. My question is – why are no free action offered to employees? Why is it not possible for them, like other employees in the media, to exercise the right to transfer capital, which is possible by law and if there are no interested customers in the privatisation process, which in this case was the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38410	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38411	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions, but before I ask a question, and that is, it is the question itself, is that, on the other hand, when we hear certain questions referred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can see insufficient information that they possess on the one hand, on the other hand, insufficient knowledge. As you have just heard, the question of the Investment Act, whether it will enable the Investment Act that we have adopted here, whether it will allow anyone to buy anything in Serbia or to give indemnity, as we have heard, property. The investment law is clearly defined and that is what the SNS is fighting for, and that is, to equate both domestic and foreign investors to have an equal position in our country and to deal with domestic investors who need a certain subsidy to develop their business, to hire people and to have more funds on the one hand in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the other hand, a smaller number of employees. There is a difference between the policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic today and the policy we could see from 2000 to 2012. Then, I would like to ask a question – as far as the investigation has taken place when we talk about the non-intentional spending of funds in the AP Vojvodina, where the president of the EU, Mr Pajtic, has pumped the money out of the budget, has allocated it to certain NGOs, because these NGOs, as far as we can see, are being run by officials, i.e. the founders of DS, so we don't see that there's anything ungovernmental about it, because we know that we have the President of the District Government in Vojvodina, so that the money is being scattered and spent to pump up in order to maybe fund some elections or what's already on Mr. Pajtic's mind? I ask the Government, or the Ministry of Interior, to investigate this affair and to see who it is and how it allows someone to reach those funds. We want first of all to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how the current representatives of the regime in Vojvodina behave, which is that some million and a half euros intended for children who have been distracted in development put in their own pocket, while remaining ruins, weights, from an object that should be modern for the money that would be intended, above all, for children who are distracted in development. It only says how much Bojan Pajtic and his associates care about the most endangered categories of our society. What then to expect pensioners, what to expect young people, what to expect capable people to work in this country when they don't care about those who need help most? One question that occurred to me to ask all the institutions in our country, above all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to ask Mr Pajtic the question – is Bojan Pajtic still the president of the province government? This is one of the questions that I ask for the answer every day, for the simple reason that we haven't seen for almost months that Mr Pajtic is doing anything for the AP Vojvodina, no development project, we see nothing but going around the world and, in some way, saying everything bad against the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, which leads the government in shadow, which went into elections almost a year, two days earlier. There, these are Mr. Bojan Pitiæ's results. The specific question is whether this man is still the president of the province's government, and if he is, then the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that such a man should not represent them, for the simple reason he receives the salary and pumps the money out of the AP budget, and the results are not seen, but also what was and what was characterized in the country as an engine of development, today a devastated our autonomy, where there is almost no perspective for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38412	Since none of the presidents, or authorized representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. Today they were prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Sinisa Maksimovic, Goran Bogdanovic, Vesna Marjanović, Milorad Mijatović, Meko Omerović and Branko Djurović. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail - the proposal of the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks. Today's session is attended by the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You've received reports from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38413	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have submitted 11 amendments to the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks. Most of the amendments are aimed at better stressing the importance of traditional Serbian drink, Serbian brand, Serbian brand, and that's brandy. You, a respected minister, have submitted the bill on behalf of the government, but from the name of the law, I will use my five minutes to erase the name of the brandy. When we move on, reading this first member, the second, and so on, the brandy is not mentioned anywhere. Rakia is mentioned only when high alcoholic beverages are listed, but by first mentioning and describing rum, whiskey, brandy, vodka, and we have some drinks that I, right to tell you, have not heard – distilled gin, London-jin, gin-anis, pastis. So, the brandy is at the level of that anise or pastis. Let me remind you, Minister, an earlier law was called the Cancer Act and other high alcoholic beverages. Why did you delete the brandy law? Why did you not also show the importance of remaining the name of the brandy, the traditional Serbian drink, which is also a Serbian brand? When it comes to brandy, it is known to refer to Serbia. Why did you delete the brandy from the name of the law? Maybe it's the European directives, 'cause I see you've been cheating. Literally, the copy-pais of the European Union Directive. And it's clear there's no brandy in those directives. Rakia is not produced, of course, in Germany, except for some of our people who went there and it's not normal for these directives to have brandy. But you had to know you were making a law for the Republic of Serbia. What are you giving up the brandy for? Which is why you did not allow you to say through this law tomorrow, when you are looking for protection of a geographical brand, trade marks on other markets, to say – we have a law on brandy, and you now have a law on "canis" or I don't know what it's called, with which the brandy is even. I suggest you accept this amendment, that in this way nothing will lose on the importance of the European directive, nothing will lose on the importance of regulating this area in the sense that it knows who, under which conditions can produce brandy, other alcoholic beverages, can put them on the market, etc. Nothing's gonna get lost here. The only thing we're going to have is a law that's going to have a brandy in its name like a Serbian brand. I also expect all MPs to support this amendment. I would personally vote for this bill on behalf of the Turnover Movement if this amendment were accepted, and I see no reason not to accept it. On the other hand, if this amendment is not accepted and most vote to remove the brandy on the same day that the "Tanjug" is abolished... What does "Tanjug" have to do with brandy? That's two Serbian brands. But I'm sure, Minister, that this law will not come into force. Because in order for the law to come into force, it is necessary to sign it by the President of the Republic, and I am sure that Mr Tomislav Nikolic will not sign a law that abolishs the brandy, which erases the brandy from the law. Because he also knows the Serbian tradition, and I don't suppose he would have thought that the Serbian name of brandy would be abolished in his term, and for the reason that he is, as far as we are concerned, the manufacturer of the brandy that has almost become a brand – a "tomacher". So I expect you to accept this, not to put the president in an awkward situation that he has to return the law, as he has returned some laws that have deeply threatened national interests, or sold out, or better to say – the property of the state has been arched. I hope there will be no arsenic and brandy and a Serbian brand and you will accept this amendment. I will be grateful to you and in the voting day I will support this law which in all other elements has good provisions which can and may be improved through amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38414	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38415	Thank you. Dear People's Parliament, I absolutely do not accept your argument, because it is not true. We don't give up the brandy, we don't delete it from the law. Free brandy is a very alcoholic drink in the context of the proposed law. Strong alcoholic beverages are all drinks intended for human use with a minimum alcoholic strength of 15%. We've prepared with the law a contribution on categories of strong alcoholic beverages and brandy is under regular number 9. It is clearly specified how products are produced and what qualities the fruit brandy must possess, the one you mean when you propose this amendment. You're proposing a formal change. We are not ready to accept the formal change in this part because we want brandy, our own homemade, traditional brandy in a special way to promote it. You know that we have proposed a complete procedure and rules for establishing a geographical indication. The contribution of our thinking to the fact that in 1994 we had the Wine and Cancer Act, that in 2009, we also had the Act on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks. So, two previous laws in their name had brandy, but we didn't do anything to protect our homemade brandy. So, in this period, for the past 20 years, only six brandy have geographical indications, with only one more active or current and this "Svivica Queen". So by writing down the name we care about, we don't get the result. That's why we don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38416	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38417	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a matter of several really unnecessary amendments, which the esteemed Proposer of this amendment has proposed to us today. I will stick to this amendment on Article 1, which proposes a particular emphasis on the word "raki" in the legal text. If the proposer of this amendment had read the explanation, i.e. the opinion the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivered to us, he would have probably given up on his amendments, but I believe he did not read the opinion. Maybe he didn't make it. However, if the proposaler of this amendment had also read the meaning of the word "raki", whether at Wikipedia, the encyclopedia, he would have realized that he had completely unsullied the amendment and would have probably given up. But he didn't do it. So, brandy is a very alcoholic drink. We can't make a law that only treats brandy, when we're already proposing a law on strong alcoholic beverages. That would be nonsensical. So we can't make a law for Janko Veselinović alone or the Janko Veseinovic law alone. We're making a law for all people. We can't even make laws that like Janko Veselinović. So, when he mentions words such as "arking", I would now not read the meaning of that word, but would invite him to read on Wikipedia the meaning of the word "arging", and he would likely give up on the future use of such a word. So I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38418	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38419	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since this is an amendment to the name of the law, we must be aware that the name, or name, is something by which we are recognizable from birth until the end of our lives, and so are those laws. I don't mind when someone proposes some changes, it needs to be considered and see if it's better than we suggest. I think with the addition of rakija this name would be quite rhogobatical and I think that the solution proposed by the Ministry, or the Government, is better in this case. As for brandy, I am proud to say that I highly appreciate that drink, and I often consume it, but I'm afraid my colleague didn't get it right, and I admire that he appreciates our brandy, the brandy producers, and that he's trying to protect it, but I'm afraid he didn't understand most likely in his practical application of brandy, that in large quantities, that this rakia leads to a confusion of certain concepts, or a twist of something, which is probably how he turned a lot of things. Rakia convinced him to say something he shouldn't have said. I hope that in future, in normal quantities, he consumes brandy and that there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38420	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38421	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, purely for the sake of the public, there's been a misinformation about how to remove the brandy. Far from that, this law makes the rakia affirmative. The production of rakija and the production of rakija are affirmed, of course, and the quality of rakija which is through a series of institutes that are new in this law. So, I share with the amendment's promoters concern for brandy, for our national brand in that we have to regain dignity, because today the brandy is sold under the counter, under the arm, on the gray market. We need to legalize the brandy, take it out into the shelves, interest as many manufacturers as possible, and win foreign markets as possible. It's a way to affirm brandy, it's a way to restore dignity to our national brand, and this law is, above all, committed to it. I am sure that in the subsequent debate we will have opportunities and a few institutes to work out, to explain to people that this is an opportunity for development, that this is the only way that we are approaching standards and classifications as they are in the EU, because we cannot dictate the rules, we cannot dictate the laws, we are a little market. We must adapt, and in law the content of the law itself is such that strong alcoholic beverages are treated in the set. Therefore, by extracting brandy, they would give up and that would be an unremarkable name that does not reflect the essence of the law itself. I call upon my colleagues, regardless of these sparks that shine, yet accept the minister's explanation, because he is absolutely right and this law aims to affirm our brandy, but leaves room for our producers to produce other strong alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38422	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38423	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have heard enough arguments, I also support fellow Mr Antic, and I do not think there is any serious reason to accept this amendment and not only this amendment, but also a series that will follow, and there will be a similar argument. Once again, it won't be too much to repeat for the sake of our citizens that this law of brandy never ends. It places a special place in this law because it is a very important product for Serbia, for agriculture in Serbia. Someone here seems to or didn't read the bill well, didn't get a good look at the Ministry's good explanation. Rakia is just one of the categories of strong alcoholic beverages and it will by no means be in a subordinate position. Because of all this, I think it is clear and I call on all the MPs to absolutely reject this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38424	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38425	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I suggest that this amendment be rejected for several reasons. I'll only name six. First of all, it's pointless, second of all, unsupervised, third of all unnecessary, fourth of all, fifth of all non-European and sixth of all. Let me say that I have the feeling that a fellow MP, as he says from the Turnover Movement, and that MP group does not exist, because I read just below his name and last name, stands an independent MP, not some Movement for Turnover or Association for Spinning, so that Mr. Croats would say, that he did not read this law, I can also tolerate that he did not read the law, but that there was no reason or reason for the law, e, I can't, because that he read, then on page 45 says that this area was governed by the Wine and Cancer Act even in 1994, and later in 2009, there was a special Act on Wine and a special Act on Cancer, and it is precisely one of the purposes of passing this law that, in some way, these three previous laws are being included and a single law for all strong alcoholic beverages. Hypertrophy of any strong alcoholic drink, so in this case, brandy doesn't make any sense. The amendment only plays a role to fool citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the producers of brandy. Dear citizens, producers of rakija, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović lies to you, I quote – because no rakija is abolished, I quote him – no rakija as well as Tanjug is abolished, the quote is completed. That's not true. This law does not eliminate brandy. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the amendment be rejected as tendant and that the proposal of the ministry and the minister be accepted as only valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38426	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38427	I think, President, that there's no need to remind you that you had to warn the MPs who directly insulted me without any basis just because I submitted the amendment, explained it, and I'm going to answer again what they said, and that doesn't stand for the truth. The rakia in the name of the law is abolished. So he was becoming to this day the Act of Cancer and other alcoholic beverages. As of today, the law will not be as the minister said in the eighth place, but it is a contribution to the law, the categorization of strong alcoholic beverages in the eighth place after rum, whiskey and already listed drinks is brandy. So, the rakija is removed from the title, and as colleagues mentioned, and in earlier laws there was a special law that regulated brandy in the title there was a rakija, now there is no longer a title, but in the subtitles there is no more rakija. So, dear rakija producers, the rakija is abolished in the name and subtitles of this law and do not suggest that you citizens of Serbia read what brandy is on Wikipedia. Serbian citizens know what brandy is, don't let them look on Wikipedia for brandy and how brandy is produced and whether it should be protected as rum or not, or as a gin, or as a pastis. Minister, what's pastis and anis? So, the same status today has anise and pastis and brandy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38428	Thanks, it's been three minutes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38429	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Chairman, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, we were carefully considering these amendments this morning and I expected the amendment speaker to come to the session, however, he did not appear. He didn't even want to defend his amendment on the board, which speaks a little bit about the quality of the amendments, because if someone wanted to protect the brandy, they would certainly show up on that committee. I have to say this isn't just a law on the production of alcohol and strong alcoholic beverages, this law is also about traffic. So all drinks must be equal. No one can propose an amendment to what he drank last night. Let's say that some promoter comes in and hits three vines and says, "This is the wine and other alcoholic beverages law." I don't think that would be appropriate. We cannot adapt the law to our own needs but to the general needs. So, if it's a single law that regulates production and traffic, you have to put all the drinks in the same position. Furthermore, in addition to the law, you have 10 types of brandy as strong alcoholic beverages. So it's not that they're off, it's that there's a particular point of 10 types of brandy. You also have alcoholic beverages that are made from cereals. We're still doing it in Srem, and these older people know very well how to make those drinks. Now imagine that we are passing a law on sports and that someone can come up with and propose – the law on football and other sports, because football is the most popular sport here. It is the brandy in Serbia's favorite drink, but it cannot be excluded from other strong alcoholic beverages and should not be a doctor of science to realize that there can be no law on football and other sports, so there can be no law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages, as suggested by one doctor of science. I would advise not to accept this amendment, as I advise not to accept the next amendment of this proposal for a number of reasons. I've already listed the reasons. So, em didn't come to the board, the law would be discriminatory on the rest of the alcoholic beverages, given that it was traffic and production, and I don't believe he read it with full respect to the law. So I think this amendment would be very bad if we adopted it. Moreover, the promoter belonged to the parliamentary group, i.e. the electoral list on whose list he was elected in 2009...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38430	MP, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38431	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38432	No, no, no, he can't go on. Just about the amendment. Don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38433	I'm talking about the amendment. If we had adopted this amendment, then we would have returned in 2009 to that law, which has reduced out of 2,000 producers by this new law, as he would have suggested, to only 300 producers. That's why I'm saying I'm talking about the amendment because it's part of an old law that was so bad that it's reduced us from 2,000 registered producers to 300. So I suggest that there can be no law on football and other sports so there can be no law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38434	The word is Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38435	The President-in-Office, the honourable Members of the People, in the light of the refusal of this amendment, states that the reason why a strong alcoholic drink within the meaning of the bill is for human use with specific sensory characteristics and a minimum alcoholic strength of 15%, which includes brandy as one of the categories of alcoholic beverages, and the protection of geographical indications is governed by the bill in the same way for all alcoholic beverages, so given the fact that there is no reasonable reason to single out the protection of the geographical code of brandy. I just want to make it clear that in the last 10 years, we haven't had any protection of geographical origin in exactly 10 years. We have only six protected rakias of geographical origin, and these are mainly Sljevivica, Jabukovača and Breskovci, so the previous laws that had that provision in their name – rakija and other strong alcoholic beverages did not contribute to protecting the brandy brand. I therefore believe that the provisions in this law will help us to have a geographical origin and to take advantage of the fact that our brandy can certainly, by its quality, take place and be a brand in Europe and the world at all and thus contribute to the economic development of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38436	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38437	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I have a few things to say, brandy, and if it's Arabic origin, she's gone home to us in Serbia, so she's more treated like a foreigner. The plum was one of the biggest brands of the former Yugoslavia, and we failed, we were too late to register it as Sljevivica and it's one of the big failures we made. The question is, are we dealing with form or essence here, and what are we going to get out of it if we accept this amendment? Will our producers have better conditions? Well, that's important. They've been talking about it for 10-15 minutes. I understand that now a lot of people are talking about brandy, because it's become part of our national drink and what's very important is that our plum is still a very wanted brand, something like a raspberries, and we haven't been able to protect it enough. This law will improve the situation. So I suggest we no longer discuss the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38438	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38439	Here, just for a little while, there's a confusion that there's been no brandy in the current law that's changed, and there's not going to be any brandy in this law that's proposed. In the current law, which is still in force and will be a few more days, we have a completely different division of alcoholic beverages. We share alcoholic beverages with brandy and other alcoholic beverages, and then, after that, we shared these other alcoholic beverages with heavy alcoholic beverages and other alcoholic beverages, and according to each of these categories, we had different procedures. In this law we unite all of this into a common name - strong alcoholic beverages, and, therefore, all procedures related to the way of production, means, on registration, on registration, on the register, all that follows this law, categorization in a unique way is arranged. So, at the same time, all that we're editing, we're regulating according to some of the standards that are imposed on us, we have to recognise, by the EU, and we're trying to make this law as clear as possible and as consistent with the procedures and the EU itself, because the aim of this law is, the basic goal, to get our rakia into the world market, primarily the European market on which we stand extremely badly, and we ourselves define ourselves towards the EU, and on the other hand, we don't want to accept these procedures and those requirements that come towards us, towards our economy and our rakia, if you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38440	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Professor Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38441	Thank you. I picked up the line, but okay, I don't insist. Basically, we find out little by little why the brandy is no longer in the name of this law. So we heard, that's not European enough. Rakia is not exactly in the European spirit, we have heard it explicitly, it is not in the European spirit and it is in line with European standards. Now we've heard a new thing, which I must admit, I didn't know, that she was actually Arabic, that she wasn't ours. That's why the brandy was kicked out of the title - because it's not European enough and because it's Arabic. Did the EU, Minister, ask us to throw out the name of the law "raki", I doubt it, because they protect enough of their brands, including through the names of acts and in laws, or did those from the United Arab Emirates ask us to throw out?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38442	MP, let's not mess around at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38443	Is it said that the word "rakia" is Arabic, just before the SNS MPs, and that it is probably why it is no longer in law? I'm asking if that's the reason, so let's think about whether it's an Arab country or an Arab company...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38444	I think you're messing with all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38445	Did you listen to the show?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38446	I listen as much as I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38447	Do you agree to get the name "rakia" out of the name? I saw you last week at the Futos' Cup, there was a drink and a drink of brandy. Are you willing to throw out the name of the brandy?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38448	I love football cabbage, but it has nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38449	And you'll vote for the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38450	Ambassador, we're now in the middle of something that you and I shouldn't be doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38451	Why? So, I'm asking you specifically, as a folk MP, will you vote for this amendment of mine, given that you're protecting the futotic cabbage, I expect you will also be protected by Serbian brandy?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38452	Now you've wasted your time. It seems that I am more skilled than you, but it is not a problem, if I am asked a question as President of Parliament, I will answer you in another way, not this speaker, but I ask you to be serious and talk about amendments, which means that we do not misinform citizens of Serbia and that we do not say not the truth about the speaker. I could ask you the same question if you are in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, as you dispute that, and I will not ask that question. I have to let the minister answer the question. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38453	As a responsible government and as a responsible ministry, I believe that the vast majority of MPs are responsible here, it is clear that we must respect international standards and standards and, in that sense, EU standards and standards. Please, what would you say, is there a law, say, in Scotland, on whiskey and on other alcoholic beverages or the law on bullets and other alcoholic beverages or cognac laws and other alcoholic beverages? So they don't exist. It's clear in the law, category nine, everyone can see, given brandy, fruit brandy, the one you think of. Rakia is produced in Serbia, it is our brand, but the brandy is also produced in other countries, for example in Germany. Germany is a major producer of brandy, more than 30,000 small holdings produce brandy. Please do not mislead our farmers and our viewers, the brandy remains and it is a brand. It is not in the name because it does not comply with international standards. That would be the same if we said – oxygen and other elements of the periodic system. Why oxygen? Because there's no life without it, but it's nowhere like that. Therefore, with this law we fit into international standards, formally not in the name, but we are essentially defending and protecting brandy through a clear procedure that will protect the designation of geographical origin and which will give us the opportunity to further promote and spread this product, not only on the national but also on the international market. In doing so, I want to tell you, not respecting international standards and not respecting these rules means that our producers could only sell themselves or ourselves here, they couldn't place their product abroad. This is another important reason why we propose an extremely good and European and law in the interest of our producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38454	Thank you, Madam Minister. Since we have a lot of registered MPs, let me just see the order of reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Articles 106, 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Vesenovic brought brandy and alcoholic beverages in connection with the Arabs. Some Arabs are allowed to do so, but most use of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. As much as we want to respect our faith and tradition, I ask the MPs to respect both the faith and the tradition of most Arabs. So imagine how those who are from the Arab world, who are currently in Serbia, feel as a symbol of faith and traditions of banning the use of alcoholic beverages. If a folk MP brings an alcoholic drink explicitly into connection with the Arab world, he must distinguish between those Arab countries where it is allowed and those Arab countries where it is not allowed and where it is considered a major religious and traditional violation. I think the MP who did this should at least apologize. I'm not asking this to be voted on, Mr. Chairman, I'm not even asking for a warning, because, despite being a doctor of legal science, I believe it's about mere ignorance. Therefore, I do not ask you to apply these provisions, but in the future, keep a close eye on what the MPs say and I expect the MP to apologize for such a comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38456	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, Madam Minister and Associates of the Ministry of Agriculture, that this debate on a good subject slipped on the wrong track. She slipped on the wrong track, and that's exactly the track she wants to slide the amendment promoter on, to talk about things that aren't the point, to get five minutes in the media, five minutes for personal promotion and promotion of what doesn't exist, and these are various movements, although the National Assembly is a place for political parties and MPs, independent or independent, but none of them are false. But it speaks more of them than of us who are exposed to cakes of daily unfeeling advertising. For the amendment promoter, it is more important to make an incident in order to write about it than to discuss something that I thought would be discussed today, which is that it never happens again to us famously, by the ill-known "caller", that we never again experience any Zivanovic or some people who have used illegal things endangering the lives of people in Serbia. Unfortunately, a few weeks ago, we were witnesses when a similar thing happened in one country. Are we here today to send a message to people in Serbia to discuss the name of something that is a brand in Serbia, something that is ours and will remain ours, something that has been produced, produced and produced, or are we going to discuss how we are going to protect people in Serbia? How are we going to protect them from illegal production, illegal market sales and elsewhere? How are we going to protect that people like that, and even if that alcoholic drink is right, they don't get into traffic, they don't sit behind the wheel, they don't risk their own, but also other people's lives? We'll do it now, i.e. Today, through 10 or 11 amendments from colleagues of Veselinović, talk about his promotion and the abolition of brandy. We're all going to talk about whether or not the brandy is lifted, and we're not going to talk about whether or not some human life is going to end through some new "caller" through some new "yankator" through some such thing. I'll make you right in one thing, Madam Minister. There's a whiskey law. There's a whiskey law that defines that the name of Irish whiskey can only exist for whiskey that's served three years in an oak barrel, or in a barrel made of oak wood. But I didn't see the vodka law, I didn't even see the tequila law. I haven't seen such laws, and these are also national drinks and national brands. Rakia is a subset of alcoholic or strong alcoholic beverages. I'd be very happy if in the same amount as the brandy produced other alcoholic beverages. I agree with your argument and with the argument of counterpart Risticevic that we cannot now talk about the law on football and sports, that we cannot talk tomorrow as there is a Law on Beer. Well, what do you think now is my colleague and friend Zoran Mirkovic from Zaječar reporting and asking to discuss the law on beers and other beers, say. I think we've turned on the wrong track and I think it's time to go back and talk about the law, talk about the future, talk about people in Serbia, talk about one legal flow and production and distribution and the sale of brandy, talk about a time when a "caller" will never happen again, and when no one will risk a life in Serbia after one cup of brandy. That is why I am asking all the MPs, and the MPs of the SNS, and I am grateful to them for the activities that they show every day, but also the other MPs, to talk about the subject, to talk about what life is in Serbia, to talk about the future, not to use some lies and paralyze just for five minutes of media fame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38458	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38459	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, I think the theme here is the bill on strong alcoholic beverages. One of those drinks is brandy. I think this law speaks very clearly and unequivocally of quality, protection, origin, etc. One very important thing, that the brandy will be able to produce the same way as so far, that it will not be prohibited for small producers to produce enough brandy for their own needs. I think all this debate is being conducted to cloud that truth. Therefore, I do not see the need for further discussion on whether it should be called a law on strong alcoholic beverages or something else. I think it's all clear here, and we don't have to keep talking about what nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38460	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38461	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to take this again because I feel like we're not in the same room as we're talking. I made it clear that rakija is a word of Arabic origin, but that it has become a bit old in Serbian. I said that because I assumed most of our citizens and MPs didn't know that. I came across an interpretation from a MP who's completely unrelated to what I said. To get serious, I'm going to do a parallel between whiskey and brandy, so we know what it's important to adopt today, i.e. These days, let's pass this law. We all know what whiskey is, "Glenfidh", "granc", "Johnny Walker", "Balantines", a huge, unimaginable market in the world, and whiskey is a distilled cereal, not fruit. In order to drink whiskey, when it is produced, 17 things have to be put on so you can drink it, and our brandy is a vegetable fruit and we don't put anything on, except in some cases sugar. There's a difference between a country to a brand and our brand. We have a great opportunity because we have a great product. It just proves that it doesn't matter in the modern world what kind of product you have, but what kind of relationship you have with it and how you marketingly promote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38462	Thank you. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38463	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have initially given an amendment to a member referring to the definition and meaning of the term. The amendment refers to point 22, where it is said that the combination of a term referred to in the name of a category of strong alcoholic beverages or a geographical indication of a strong alcoholic drink from which all alcohol in a strong alcoholic drink and the names of one or more food products other than food products used in the manufacture of that strong alcoholic drink, i.e. the addition derived from those names, etc. Too vague and we think that our intervention on this amendment is quite in style, given that this is obviously a translation that is not adequate for us, and that is where we suggested that this word “driving all alcohol” be changed to“ where. ” In fact, the amendment intends to point out that all alcohol in a strong alcoholic drink comes from an area covered by the geographical indication of origin. In response to the fact that the amendment has not been accepted, it is stated that the bill refers to the combination of the term referred to in the name of the category of strong alcoholic beverages, and does not only apply to the obligation that all alcohol in strong alcoholic beverages must originate in the area covered by the geographical indication of origin. I must admit that it is not clear to me, either, why it is not only from one territory, because we still think it is an uncomplicated translation, an inadequate proposal from English, given that it is clearly about calling on EU directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38464	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38465	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister and Associates, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members, following in the law this, as I call it, the termist, that is, in Article 3 of the definition of the phrases found in the law, was necessary to supplement this list of 22 expressions with two new terms, because there are also used in this law, and I don't think they are otherwise widely known and sufficiently clear people who will use it, I'm not even sure that many producers themselves, when it comes to individual producers, natural persons, etc., that they know what they mean to you. These are terms – maceration and sensory evaluation, as I said. I don't plead that I gave the best definition, that's what I found because I have to admit that I didn't even know what it meant - maceration, let's say. Those definitions I've found I've offered. Please, if those in your opinion are not clear enough, completely change them, but I ask that these two terms enter Article 3 as point 23 and 24 because it is very necessary for the law to be clearer and simpler to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38466	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38467	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kovacevic, I must thank you very much for reading the law with due respect and these amendments of yours testify that you really wanted to do very well on your own to improve the text of the law. However, we have not adopted this amendment for two reasons. First, because it was not the intention to explain the technology of production. So if we were to accept your amendment then the law would be incomplete, because it contains no explanation for other stages in the technological process itself, such as distillation, such as fermentation, etc. So we would complicate the law, and the intention of the law is not to explain the technological process. That's one reason. The second reason is that, according to the legal methodology, a unique methodology when it comes to showing, i.e. the presentation of members of one law, is the rule that when a single term appears only once in the law then it is not specifically defined by that methodology, i.e. it is not particularly explained. These are the reasons why this amendment is not accepted with all the respect for your reasoning that I think is really in place. I just want you to believe that this was nothing more than these professional issues, or professional reasons why we couldn't accept your amendments. By the way, I thank you very much, indeed other amendments are very good for you, and you can see that you are a good knower of this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38468	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38469	And in Article 4, I suggested, dear Minister, that "a strong alcoholic drink" be replaced with the word "raki and other strong alcoholic beverages", which is why I have already explained it. And because of the fact that we've already had the law on brandy and other strong alcoholic beverages, and that it's not adequately applied is not the reason for the brandy to be thrown out of the law. We heard your argument earlier – so other countries don't have a law that protects their alcoholic drink, whiskey specifically, so you were denied by a colleague from the SNS. You get a little, a little bit, so crash, you from the SPS and the SNS. Yeah, part of my colleague's right, the truth in Scotland isn't the law's source of law, it's the Anglo-Saxon legal system, and there are the precedents of rights. Yes, it is protected by whiskey like protected other brands in all serious countries. To cheer you up, I will not defend the other amendments for the reason that at 12 o'clock I will defend another brand outside the Tanjug building, I will defend the Serbian brand Tanjug, which is also at risk today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38470	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38471	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm advertising Article 107 and Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, given that this is by whom the abuse of the Rules of Procedure is known by the MP and who knows which path is inadequately reacting to such an injury, because he has long earned far greater sanctions than the one prescribed as the least to the Rules of Procedure. The mixing of anything else in the work of the session of this Assembly involves political marketing of the MP and nothing more, and such a kind of dialogue in this Parliament is in no way possible to accept, nor is the topic of the agenda what the MP was saying. Relations in the coalition are not today a part of the agenda because the coalition works in this parliament in the best way possible. In the best possible way, it contributes to the constructiveness and work and quality of the law, and day-to-day political propaganda of anything that implies advertising by MPs must be sanctioned, especially when it comes to something that is out of the agenda. Please, the chairman, that in the future, given that it is not an MP here, that in the future, although you show a certain degree of tolerance according to this manner of action, as some of our MPs here say, you are no longer doing so because it only undermines the dignity of the National Assembly and sends a very bad message to the citizens, especially by manifesting the behaviour of the MPs who have shown themselves in the right way today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38472	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. You must also understand an MP who is trying to draw attention to himself and the nonexistent Movement. You have to understand that this topic is close to him, so it's in him, and that's why he's trying in this way to defend his amendments without argument. You also saw that the moment he began to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly, I interrupted his exposure. So I don't think I've broken the Messenger. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38473	To be clear, the replica of Mr. Janko Veselinovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38474	Clearly, it was understood by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38475	Unlike you, Mr. Becic, I don't have that width and I can't have and I don't understand the anomalies. I can't understand, yes, and if I warned you earlier that this debate slipped aside from some day-to-day political propaganda, to a level that I don't think is adequate to this high house. My replica will fit into one sentence – that someone who cares more about the relations of others would have to think more about what no one will do with it. Because no one will, he doesn't even have to think about relationships. They're gone. Because other political actors, in one broad port, avoid it for any communication and any co-operation. Here, because there is no relationship and no co-operation on Serbia's political scene, and no friends, now he's thinking about someone else's reactions, and some other people's relations. I think it's the wrong one again, one replacement thesis, and the wise people in this Serbia, in our Serbia, are talking – take care of how the chimneys from your house and the smoke from the chimneys from your house, and don't look at anyone else. First, let Mr. Vesenovic correct the anomalies in his Movement, register it, form it if he has support, let him co-operate, make a move and then present himself on his behalf. Only when he makes friends on the political scene and associates on the political scene can he talk about relations on Serbia's political scene among other political actors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38476	I thank you, Mr. Babico, with only a note that I have no understanding of it, as I don't think I can correct anomalies in something that doesn't exist. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dr Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38477	Just for a little while. I would like to say for the sake of the public, our viewers, there is absolutely no dissension between MPs who are representatives of the ruling parties, but also MPs who make up a good part of the opposition and us from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the discussion that took place in the previous period. The whole controversy comes down to whether it should stand in the name of the law "racia" or not to stand. We said that we fully agreed our law with standards internationally, with EU standards and that we did not put in the name "racija", for simple formal reasons. Basically, we'll continue to treat the brandy as a national brand. The law gives us the opportunity to protect her, just as they protected their national brands, and the French their cognac, and Scots their whiskey and bullets the Greeks. So we fit in with them. As they fight in their own way for their drinks, for their traditional products, we will also fight for our brandy. Rakia is under regular number nine, as it is an international categorisation at EU standards. That's the point. So we don't fight here formally to say "racia" and do nothing for her. We fight essentially, we have prepared a law that provides opportunity for major promotion, for the added value of our domestic product and for what is most important, to protect this product at both national and international level and to be our significant export product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38478	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38479	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we should accept the amendment of fellow Veselinovic for a number of reasons, and these reasons are repeated because he proposed to change the name of the law, the name of the law and therefore remained consistent in all the members, he asked that strong alcoholic beverages, the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, his name be changed on the Cancer Act and other alcoholic beverages. He seemed quite unrelated, however, because of our law viewers, he said TANJUG is a Serbian brand. One doctor of law should know that TANJUG is a Yugoslav brand, that it's a brand of the former state. I believe I share the confidence of my colleagues to ask for a solution to this news agency, no matter what name it has, there's one letter that determines the name of the former state. We have kept that name so far, but for the full truth it is not about the Serbian brand, it is about the Yugoslav brand and I believe that I share the confidence of other colleagues to find some way for journalists to be able to get free action, without the right not to use it to find a way for them to use their rights in some extra time and that the news agency is not shutting down. I believe she has nothing to do with the amendment. The promoter cited it, so I'm obliged by the viewers to state what's full of truth. Mr Veselinovic's amendments, which he cited as amendments to the PRECRET Movement, should not be accepted. The PRECRET movement is one association of citizens established by three citizens, not a political factor at all. That's one of the reasons why you don't have to accept the amendments. The second reason is that these amendments seem pretty hungover to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38480	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38481	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, good day, we have said in principle, it is a really good law and I will repeat it today to the law that we will support not because it may be copied in the work of harmonising with European directives, but because the whole process in producing strong alcoholic beverages is something that is a good European practice and that is why we will support this law. We have submitted 16 amendments, thinking that we can define certain members more precisely, and here I will do perhaps something unusual for the opposition MP, I will accept your explanation for these "and, or" amendments, I will no longer report, there are several, but we will certainly continue the discussion according to the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38482	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38483	Honorable and President-in-Office, Ms. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellows and Fellow Members, this amendment is specific because it has been rejected for our formal reasons, but it differs from the text that has been rejected, which you as a ministry have refused and the text of the material we have received from the service because we have delivered the correction before the board's meeting, so I ask you to consider specifically the interventions that have been made here. The amendment refers to a chapter of the category of strong alcoholic beverages in which you say strong alcoholic beverages produced in accordance with this law are classified in the categories attached to the term ‘a category of strong alcoholic beverages’ which is printed with this law and makes it an integral part of it. We've given a different definition of this member, and we think it's more appropriate. Namely, we listed that in Article 6. The draft law item 1 is amended and read – strong alcoholic beverages produced in accordance with this law are classified in categories. Article 1 is replaced by the following: the category of strong alcoholic beverages, technical definitions and requirements are set out in the Annex to the category of strong alcoholic beverages, which is an integral part of this law. Why did we intervene like this? We believe that it is irrelevant whether the contribution is printed or not, that is, as you have stated in this proposal for a member, or the bill, and we propose an amendment which we consider to be more appropriate in a legal and technical sense and which gives at least some content of the contribution as a reason why the contribution is not given through the normative part, i.e. technical definition, specific technical requirements, etc. We simply formulated it so, and I ask you to reconsider this proposal with the correction that we have made, because I say, the reason why you refused is said – for formal reasons, our amendment has been rejected. I hope I made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38484	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Mr. Kovacevic, did you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38485	I just wanted to say that I accept the argument given to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38486	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38487	And in principle, I said that this is a solid law that rightly defines the area of strong alcoholic beverages and that is confirmed in the discussion, and by adopting these four amendments, which are the first of which, by the ministry or the government, I think that the law is still a little bit fixed. In particular, it was important for us to apply this amendment to Article 9 which deals practically with the protection of business secrets that every producer of alcohol has the right to consume, as well as all other economic operators. The amendment defines which data enters the producer's register and defines that these data are public and that they are kept permanently, but some of these data should not have a public designation for keeping a business secret. This is what the legislator fully respected, and I thank you for that understanding. Some evil languages will say that the strongest opposition New Party is the best co-worker of the Serbian government, since the largest number of amendments is ours, which has been adopted, in absolute numbers, not to speak proportionally to the number of MPs, so that we are the best Serbian government associates in helping to raise solid law to the level of very good and good. We will continue without this being considered to reduce our relationship to what the Serbian government is doing, but this is not the topic of today's debate. It's a topic every day, so it doesn't have to be a theme today. I'm using those five minutes. There have been a lot of ugly words in the debate so far, there have been a lot of insults, a lot of situations where the chairmans have been making themselves deaf and deaf, which I don't think is good. Any insult to MPs from any side to go is not for the benefit of either the legislator, nor to us who should make a decision, not to the Serbian public, not to the future of the producer of brandy and other hot drinks. I think one effort to raise the level of debate in parliament must be made from all sides. Regardless of what I probably said to some valuable courts that were not pleasant to the ear, it was obvious in, as it would say, the state of the necessary defence, because the definition of the atmosphere of work in one parliament, of course, always defines most of them at any time in history, even today. Therefore, I think that we should make one effort from the government when we get good laws, solid laws, to commend them in an adequate way, to try to fix them, and all in order for the final product of what is the work of the Serbian Parliament, what comes out for the other day in the "Official Messenger" to be something that is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, but also for the honor of us sitting here on their behalf. It is good that this law accurately defines the area of production of strong alcoholic beverages. Of course it's one important industrial branch, but I don't think we should go to another extreme again, so it'll be some historic change, which will historically change something important. All over the world, they produce, almost everywhere, alcoholic beverages are produced in most countries around the world. In most countries in the world, domestic alcoholic beverages are consumed most often. It is very difficult to get out on the outside market, especially if you are in a position of Serbia that was out of the world in the 1990s, which was formerly part of another country, which once again had a special status in the previous world. It is not necessary to understand that these laws will give producers of strong alcohol an absolutely new atmosphere, in which they will be able to export 10, 20 times as much as they have so far. It can't be like that and it has nothing to do with any government, not one law. But it's good to have, above all, because of our market, and because of those who have already found ways to export brandy and other heavy drinks from these areas, how to make this production, distribution, supply of raw materials, final sales, tax policy, all of this is based on sound principles that allow stable business conditions. For each investor, the most important thing is a stable business conditions, not 10 or 5,000 euros per new worker, not a pat on the shoulder, not four scissors that cut the same red tape when something opens and drives, whether it's a tap, a scoreboard hole or I don't know what, but a certain business. These laws make it the highest quality of this law and therefore we need to support it in the voting day. We give that support. If we're going to be formally there that day physically to vote for that law, it's less important. In every parliament in the world, the majority is responsible for providing the required number of votes for the adoption of a legal act and calling for who is coming to the moment, who is five minutes late, who has cleaned his shoes, who has washed himself and who has not washed himself or who is coming to the vote or not, I think we should leave that in some time. Of course, it is an important political position, we are politicians in this parliament, to say that some legislative proposal is good or not, and whether we will physically be at that moment when voting is otherwise scheduled, it has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. Therefore, you're doing well. I think we're the largest number of laws that came from your ministry either hailed or at least slightly criticised, if we didn't say they were good. I think you're a good example for other ministries in this Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38488	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Pavicevic, do you want your five minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry and respected Vice-President of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr. Bečić, I ask you to include this small electronic device for mathematical operations, in order to measure those five amendments minutes, since Mr. Zoran Zivkovic has already used those two minutes on which we have the right to propose this amendment, to ensure that everything is precise, respected gentlemen, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Law and the Constitution of our Republic. I hope that I will not be resented here for now accepting our amendment to Article 9 of this proposal, because our amendment to Article 9, honored gentlemen, the substance amendment, the substance amendment, has been accepted, and I now declare one of the pleasures that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister on behalf of the Government has accepted such an amendment. Of course, it is also my reason that, speaking of the first amendment that we have submitted to this bill, I declare to the MPs, as some kind of introduction to our debate on our amendments, that this is one of the four amendments adopted, compared to the ten amendments that we have submitted to this bill. As is the order, I think, this is an opportunity to remind the MPs that we, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, for these years and seven months, have submitted a total of 1,612 amendments, respected Mr Bečić, have been respected by Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, and 132 amendments have been accepted. When it is transferred to percentages, gentlemen, it amounts to 8.18% of the accepted amendments of the People's MPs of the New Party, which is what Members of Parliament, respected gentlemen, I think, makes us the new parties in this meeting to the champions of Serbian parliamentaryism today. I think this is the victory of the opposition, but also of parliamentaryism, but also of ours. We are the champions of this congregation. Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, I do not expect you, as a representative of the executive branch of the government, to say so here, but one of the MPs and MPs of the SPS, whose member you are, to this day, to say so here, distinguished gentlemen, because that objective assessment, is an appropriate assessment of what is happening in this assembly of our people. Of course, 8.18%, according to certain analogies I make, means that the New Party today has the support of an 8.18% electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38490	Does that mean you'll talk a little bit about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38491	I'm going over it right now, but I had to make an introduction, Mr. Becic. We need to show what's going on in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38492	You have little time left for the amendment, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38493	So, the amendment to Article 9 was a substantiative amendment, accepted and Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, a respected gentleman, announced that the amendment was accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation prepared by Mr Zivkovic and I. It's important to me for this amendment to tell what's in that explanation, to hear the producers, those people who consume strong alcoholic beverages. Also, there we have put three key things, gentlemen, to know how we have contributed to the improvement of the content of a law. We have placed that data on production, transport, supply per year and on the supplier of agricultural distillates should not be made available to the public because it is sensitive business secrets. The Ministry has accepted this argument, this part of the argument. I think you should hear it here. The second thing we put here -- it's not justified that producers of strong alcoholic beverages have an insight into the data on produced, sold quantities, and the state of supply. I think there's a reason to accept that. The third thing we have put, perhaps most important, with mutual insight into quantitative data on production, transport, as well as insight into the identity of suppliers, the producers of strong alcoholic beverages are able to conclude illicit monopoly agreements, and we need to prevent it, gentlemen, and it is appreciated here. These 15 seconds, which I hope to use, if Mr. Becic doesn't turn off the microphone, I'll use it to say that we will vote for this bill, with great pleasure, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38494	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Do I have two more minutes? No, Mr Pavicevic, although I am extremely glad that I can agree with Novo MPs, that the new largest opposition party. Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38495	I do not want to reduce the satisfaction of my colleagues from the New Party, but in the light of this amendment, which we have received as a reason for refusing, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the same reason as the amendment of MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Since the LSV parliamentary group has submitted eight amendments, two have been accepted, I will be so free that I believe this amendment has also been accepted, given that you have accepted an identical amendment from a new party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38496	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović submitted the 10 amendments together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38497	Dear Minister, we wanted to replace this amendment with Article 11(2) to replace the words "three years" in the words "five years" and the term "minister" in the word "ministration", i.e. we wanted to influence the amendment by making it necessary for the manufacturer to have the basement records and documentation referred to in Article 1 of this Article, i.e. data on the type, quantity, strength of raw materials used in all stages of production, quantity and quality of the produced and sold alcoholic beverages and the sales name of a strong alcoholic drink, to be kept for at least five years, not three years, as you suggested, counting on the days of the year in which the last quantity of a strong alcoholic drink was sold. You wrote in your explanation that a three-year period is an appropriate time-limit for keeping this file. We want to ask you to think about this one more time, because as we are often told in the reasons for refusing amendments that something more meaningful, more celery, we believe that this five-year term is more appropriate and meaningful to keep this documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38498	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. To the title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38499	The Honorable Chairman, respected Madam Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members of Parliament Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, has submitted an amendment to Article 22 and the amendment reads, I will read it to understand why we asked for this: "In Article 22, paragraph 1, the words "12 months" are replaced by the words "three months". “ We also felt that there is no reason when a person submits a request and that request is not complete within 30 days, if it is incomplete, the applicant is reported, and he has to submit the documentation to complete this request within the next 30 days. If he submits a request that is complete, he will receive, under Article 21, an opportunity to make a solution to the ministry, i.e. to get registration of geographical origin. However, if it is incomplete documentation, it gets a 30-day deadline to complete the documentation. If he does not, he is given a negative solution by automation, i.e. the request is rejected. However, if he does, Article 22 regulates that the ministry should resolve it in the next 12 months. The ministry explains that this is a necessary deadline, necessary for all measures and actions to be taken to resolve the situation and to call for Article 23, in which they also write various situations in which the document can be requested. Given that I know quite well the functioning of the ministry and individual administrations, I believe it was an inappropriate deadline. Our proposal was for that deadline to be in place of 12 months three months. Because, all of these actions, whatever, whatever they take, if a positive or negative solution were to be taken within three months, would also speed up the efficiency of the ministry and would allow for the efficiency and opportunities of those who have made the failure and remove it, to start producing and distributing such a product as quickly as possible. I think it could have been resolved and there was capacity, because neither the administrative procedure nor all the warrants that were given as potential solutions in case the incomplete documentation was scheduled for 30 or 60 days, and 90 days was quite sufficient and we felt that this amendment was completely reasonable, from the aspect of the efficiency of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38500	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38501	Just a moment to explain why we didn't accept the amendment. We have not accepted the amendment for the simple reason that the bill provides for the possibility to provide protection of geographical indications within a month. It's in cases where the demands are complete. In other cases, when we have a number of different opinions that are present and opposed at the same time, then we've given up to one year, which doesn't mean that this job and all these procedures can't be completed in three months or six months. Why did we say up to a year? Because now this is one newspaper. In the past, individual geographical origin or geographical indication was protected, the individual producer wanted to protect his product and that is his individual right. We are now introducing collective rights to a specific geographical code by this law. As far as collective law is concerned, more producers from one locality, from one area, from one territory to use that geographical code, it is expected that these producers do not always have a full understanding, especially when it comes to certain secrets, when we talk about specificities in production, specific taste, smell, sensory characteristics, etc. What is the role of the Ministry in these cases? The role of the ministry is to try to extract the best possible product, the best possible solution that will satisfy all of them who will later use that designation of geographical origin. And this tag is now a permanent document, it's one lasting treasure. That is why we foresee a clear, open, transparent procedure, in which we assume the role of mediators, with the aim of reaching the best solution. That's why it's up to a year, but it can be done before, if we're more effective in that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38502	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38503	Thank you. The amendment should certainly not be accepted, and what I would stress in this law is that Article 22 and 23 in a clear, transparent and law-based way enables the procedure for obtaining solutions when it comes to producers of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication. Also, Article 22 but also Article 23 provides for precise deadlines for all competent authorities to act. I would also like to quote Article 23, item 9, which gives the Ministry a new role, which is the role of mediator, because it is a matter of issuing a solution for strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication. This role of mediation, that is, where all stakeholders will be participants, and certainly this is a collective right to have more interested participants, and that is why this Article 23. item 9 is for each commendation, because it is given 60 days, which is quite enough to reach agreement for the sake of general interest. I don't agree with what's been put here, that the solution is made within a year, but, of course, if the documentation is complete. If, after the publication of the ‘Official Messenger’, there are no objections from the legal person or other entities interested, the Ministry may decide within a short period of time, or within the time limit provided for in the General Administrative Procedure Act. I must stress that the act brought by the ministry is absolutely in agreement with the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is finally and legal protection after that can only be achieved by starting a administrative dispute, so I believe that the deadline is absolutely appropriate and appropriate, in the interest of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38504	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38505	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is evident that we are a little superficially listening. This is where they operate on the fact that it's a deadline, and that's what my colleague said, it's up to 12 months. The law says, "From." So, no – do. And you've even stated it's up to 12 months. If you'd said so, we wouldn't have submitted the amendment. When a person states in the law – of 12 months, it means 12 months. So I fully agree that you've taken on one important and excellent role as mediator, but you've also stated that it's 60 days. You've also listed 30 days for a deadline for appeal. But only in the conversation did we hear one word – up to 12 months, and that completely opens up the possibility that you are right. I thank you and hope that my colleague also understood my discussion, that "from" and "to" is not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38506	Thank you. A group of 13 Democratic Party MPs submitted together to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Can I help you, Mr. Sutanovac, if you'd like to follow this amendment? Is anyone answering for a word? (No) I thank you. A group of 13 Democratic Party MPs submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. A group of 13 MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 29th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry, respected Mr Bečić, vice-president of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, first of all, I would like to thank you for one honesty when you admitted to our debate on the previous amendment that the New Party is the champion of Serbian Parliamentism. Today, Mr. Becic, there's no dilemma for anyone, I mean it, and it's appropriate, I think, that you from the chairman's seat confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38508	Mr. Pavicevic, you're putting words I didn't say. I said I agree with you that you are the largest opposition party, that the New Party is the largest opposition party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38509	So you're confirming the champions of Serbian parliamentaryism today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38510	That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38511	Okay. The second thing, of course, is evident and now I see it by the reactions of the MPs and other political parties, including those who make up the ruling coalition that we have confirmation that the New Party today is at 8.18% of the support in the electoral body despite this, respected gentlemen, which is an amendment to Article 29, which we have submitted to MP Zoran Zivkovic and I am not one of the accepted amendments. I want here very clearly, precisely to say that we have offered one explanation for this amendment. After that, I read the explanation why this amendment is not accepted and, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, we accept an explanation for not accepting the amendment. You, I think, have made a very nice effort to further explain to us here why the formulation originally envisaged should remain in that place where it was, and for a reasonable man it is normal, I think, to accept that kind of reasoning. So we too accept an explanation for not accepting this amendment, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38512	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You can see that I'm quite right to support you in that because you have 2% more than some to the almost largest opposition party. Thank you. I mean, the 8% you're talking about. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo submitted to the 30th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38513	The amendment that we've given in this article is actually some sort of, let's say, grammatical intervention that's not accepted. Here, I'll explain what's going on. For the purposes of carrying out production and quality control activities, the Ministry may authorise a certification body registered in the Register of economic operators in accordance with the law, etc. Our amendment was practically an intervention in the sense that it does not stand - registered in the register, but that it changes and that it stands - registered in the register. Unfortunately, our amendment was simply rejected. It is said that it is not accepted for the reason that the term – registered in the register has been used several times in the text of the bill, given that the unique methodological rules for the making of the rules provide for the obligation to express, or structures used multiple times in a given regulation, and that only one member of the bill must be amended, etc. It's simply that we think that this question is a fall, not a question of another, some other intervention, and that's why we think and we don't understand why the amendment was rejected for these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38514	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word is made by Minister Dr Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38515	I'll just take a minute. Dear Members, the objection you have now made and the content of your amendment will be considered and will be corrected in the legal and technical order. So we couldn't formally accept the amendment because this kind of expression appears in many places in the law, and now, I say, in the legal and technical order and with the consent of language experts, this will certainly be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38516	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović together submitted the 30th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) I thank you. A group of 13 Democratic Party MPs submitted to the 31st amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word is Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38517	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have submitted to Article 36 an amendment that has one reasonable content, given that in one, I should say, an elegant way to address the problem of controlling those who produce, the product controls of those who produce the product for their own needs. Please listen to me while I read the amendment and your answer because in response to the non-admission of the amendment you gave me our amendment. The amendment is that, in Article 36 after Article 3(3), a new chapter 4 and 5 which reads – the safety and quality test of strong alcoholic beverages produced by a natural person for their own purposes will be carried out at the request of that natural person, in accordance with the provisions of this law and the rules governing food safety. Another stance – the minister is closer to prescribing the way and process of examining the safety and quality of strong alcoholic beverages in the 4th article's position. You have answered me, you have answered us, I apologize, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the subject of this law is every very alcoholic drink that is placed on the market. A natural person who produces a very alcoholic drink for his own purposes can, and would be very instructed to carry out quality and safety controls at his own cost in any laboratory that conducts such tests. So what you haven't considered is that the minister can rule out how such people can control their product and keep track of it because I repeat it is one third of the total amount of alcohol that is drunk in this country. It's not a negligible amount, and we're talking about human health here. Perhaps someone is unconscious, undereducated, or in any other way disabling to understand the dangers it poses. He is overcome by the passion for alcohol or alcoholism which is a disease, but therefore the socially responsible authority or the competent ministry must foresee the possibility that he, as you have responded, and as we have suggested, may, at his expense, carry out, for his own purposes, exercise control and receive adequate findings about it. the declaration and that there is a record to be made available to the ministry. I'd like to point out and give two examples. One is very drastic. Our president of the state gave his brandy to someone. Is that being questioned? He's doing it, let's say it's great and we don't bring it, neither do I, I don't consume alcohol and I won't doubt it, but he could have caused an interstate, like this, very unpleasant situation that could have resulted in the use of that alcoholic drink, that his quality and potential danger could not be known. So, we only wanted this member to, as you replied, leave the possibility, he can, that the regulation that would regulate it, and that's what it says in this second position, that the minister is closer to prescribing the conditions to which he will be registered. So in the extreme line, many people with small production, who from the same geographical area, in some ways, would be stimulated to join together tomorrow, through associations to form joint facilities, create a joint business that will register and be registered in the register. We have one danger here that a large amount of traffic, even though we don't, is that traffic is not everything that isn't a trade, and use is actually a danger here. So, I think you've accepted the amendment's rationale, but you've answered us that he's not being accepted. Please consider, because our goal is not to derogate an excellent law, on the contrary, we want this law to get another quality for which, I'm sure, you will get in all the instances that our legislation estimates the most positive assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38518	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38519	Thank you. I just want to do it one more time, in the principle debate, I was talking about this, so I say once again, we can't legally commit the individuals who produce a particular product for their own needs to control it. They can certainly roast a brandy for themselves, for their family, for their guests to control, and that's good. There are registered accredited laboratories that do controls for their needs, they can exercise control and get on the basis of these controls an appropriate result of what the quality of the products they have, which they possess. We, through this law, can't impose on them, it stays on them, because it's in the same level we talked about the other day. According to that logic, we would have to impose a commitment on them and control what ajvar is, what is the jam that the housewives made, what is the meat obtained by slaughtering pigs in domestic labor? So this law can't regulate it, but it doesn't deny the possibility, it's even a recommendation that every domestic product is controlled and given special and due attention. Furthermore, you say – what about when they increase production, when they join together? Then it is something else, when they increase production and when they no longer produce for themselves and their own needs, then they can sell their product in the way this law regulates – or registered producer, which is then responsible for quality and safety or register themselves as producers and then they are responsible for the quality and safety of the products that will be placed on the market and will be made available to consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38520	The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38521	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, I understand your argument and I am fully aware that if this were to be introduced, but it will have to be in one of the following laws, all forms of production will have to be controlled, we felt that one gesture that is not binding, in the amendment, and it does not say that it is an obligation and I completely agree with you that it is a recommendation, but it is not disputed. It's the other part where we suggested that the Ministry prescribes a way, so somehow there's a manufacturer's register for their own needs, which is very useful, given that you have one third of the total amount of heavy alcoholic beverages that are consumed. Our inhabitants are the ones who don't sell, and those who drink 50 liters of brandy, or what I know, in the villages, it's like each other, who gets it. I set an example of our president, because if he had a declaration on the bottle, we'd be sure he didn't put the country in danger, maybe someone poisoned himself with it. I thank you, as if you've accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38522	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38523	Just for a little while, we have the Food Safety Act. Under this law, the manufacturer of any food is obliged to place food on the market, to keep that food straight, to be safe for consumers and to buy distillates anyway, meaning the manufacturer of alcoholic beverages, strong alcoholic beverages is obliged to distill you and check you. So what comes from individual manufacturers he checks before he goes into processing and processing that distiller. So the responsibility is on the manufacturer. Individual producers selling distillates do not have that obligation if distillates are used for their own use, for the needs of their families. They are responsible for themselves and their family for what they produced, so so so is all other provisions. A register where all this is going to be run, it means to prescribe a register of about 200,000 individual producers who are making brandy for their own needs at the moment. In Serbia, you have about 20,000 words and this huge job to impose on the ministry to make ten or fifteen individual producers eventually apply, control their brandy, I think it's a vain job. Nothing gets lost here, you make brandy, you're responsible for yourself, your kids, your family, your friends. You sell it, you sell it to the manufacturer, the manufacturer takes care of what input he buys, as the cookie manufacturer takes care not to burn it, he has to control it before it's put on the market and nothing actually changes here. All those rules applicable to other foods of this law apply also to brandy. Of course, a nice minister said it would be good if every single producer of ours could control what they bake. It would be a great experience, it could improve its production, but believe me, you know the situation in the country yourself. It still requires one expense, they would have to pay for those controls themselves. The vast majority of them have great experience, so that's one of the reasons why I don't think they should be forced into this obligation. I believe that the law of things is well set up and there's no need to complicate, to collect this production, because one of the basics of the law, maybe it's not bad to say it again, is that this production is as cheap as possible. We, with 2,000 manufacturers that we had in 2009, burned to a minimum of 400 just because we had expensive procedures. All that is not necessary, it should be thrown out, as the obligation with the technologist to have your own equipment has been dropped, the registration procedure has been simplified. So the aim of this law is to increase the number of producers, that this production and these production costs are appropriate to our capabilities and thus increase the scope, and the certification body, which today is not much talked about, will control and will ensure that we also have quality, which is important in terms of quantity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38524	The word has been made by the MP Dr Miroslav Marinkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38525	I thank my dear colleague, but first I would like to welcome the Honorable Madam President of Parliament, Madam Minister and other Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear fellow, we are looking at the same problem on two different sides. It's the same as if you said -- you don't have to examine the meat, so you get the Trichinol. So our amendment was not intended to derogate existing and proposed solutions in the law, reduce their importance or erase them. We want to add one more quality. Because if you ignore the fact that one third of the total amount of heavy, or strong alcoholic beverages that are drunk in this country is not under control... So it's not the law to have as many registered manufacturers as possible, but to keep all the quantities produced within the meaning of the Food Safety Act under control. So one of the ways he could have been the one that we suggested, and he wouldn't have asked for funding for small producers for his own needs, would have given them a chance to know what they were drinking and that the next day, when they would be selling to those same authorised producers, who would most likely half the price of their finished product, because no farmer in this country produces a semi-product, and that's the first toast that is the most dangerous and most methyl-alcoholic, but will sell the finished product to be able to, because he knows it works, will sell it for sure for less money than he would have sold and rather sold it. It's great that the law regulates this properly, that all production must be under control, that every product must be under quality control, but this knowledge, with the record, would give opportunity to those who do it, and they don't know what they're doing. They know from experience, as you say. I was inexperienced until I passed my driver's test. So, you leave the experience, it's necessary for a certain skill that you master, and you get a certificate about it. So I don't dispute your wish, and I want to help the producers, but we give them the opportunity to control that product, know what they're using and keep track of it. You will thus come to know from that third bar for half who these producers are. No one still forbids them to produce, but they know what's good and what's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38526	Ambassador Antic, do you want the amendment or not? (Zoran Antic, from the place: Replica. You can only follow the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38527	Just for the sake of truth. You know, small producers, individual producers have never sold those famous Zozovacs. These famous "Zozockers" made and poisoned citizens more seriously, large producers who abused the process at the time, the laws at the time, abused the market and lack of control, but our individual producers never made such "Zozores". As far as poisoning is concerned, they never caused any poisoning, and I think they really have one great experience and I say it purely for the public. You're absolutely right to do whatever can be done to make control as good as possible. I'm sure when this law comes to life, when a large number of individual manufacturers start to bake brandy for registered manufacturers, these homemade brandy will be less and the inspection will have enough space to control it, because it's really very hard to control 200,000 producers who are roasting brandy at this point. The law itself goes in that direction to do so by some registered certification bodies or producers themselves, and that is the reality and that is the possibility that Serbia's inspection service today has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38528	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 38th amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38529	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have not responded to these amendments that have passed, which I have submitted, because it implies that I am completely satisfied with the explanation and that, of course, I accept it, so as not to hold back and take up time. This is where I found it necessary for us to clear ourselves up just a little bit, Madam Minister. I didn't know. Your explanation stated that the regulation was respected here. However, I think this proposal of mine is an amendment to change, which seems to me to be cleaner, cleaner and more explicit. Because if it is said in the text of the bill that a multilingual declaration is allowed which is not contrary to data written in Serbian, I suggest that a multilingual declaration be allowed if it is identical with data written in Serbian. I believe that between the same and the opposite, there is a broad field of shades that don't have to mean the opposite, but they can mean the change. So I don't think it would be too much to stand to be the same, and then we're clear. In the next thing, when it comes to the name of categories listed in the declaration, it is said in the bill that these names, i.e. The names shall not be translated into the declaration. I said that instead of not being able to translate that they have to be written in the original. It seems much clearer to me, and I don't see that this would violate the regulation, it would be respected. I think in our spirit it would be much clearer and more precise. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38530	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38531	Dear Mr Kovacevic, your amendment is not accepted for the reason that the first part of the amendment where you say it is – multilingual declaration is allowed if it is identical with the data written in Serbian, that part is accepted under the amendments under regular number three. As regards this second part, which you have stated, when it comes to names, therefore, it is in accordance with European directives that the names should be in the original. So what they are in the original country of origin, they must also be in countries that are importers of these drinks and, of course, in the country from which the drink originates. That's good for us too, because tomorrow our Serbian "Sljivvica" will be in the original so written on the declaration, on the finished product, on the packaging, anywhere in Serbia, either in Germany, America, etc. It's just, these are some rules, these are the standards that we've taken over in the context of this alignment, and I think they're useful to us, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38532	Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs Committee believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, honored guests and guests from the Ministry and distinguished National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 39 and offered, I think, a very good explanation. This morning I read that the amendment was not accepted and, of course, as was the order, read the explanation why the amendment was not accepted. The reasons for the amendment are not accepted for the reasons that those provisions are fully in line with Article 14(2). A regulation that is part of EU legal fluids 110/2008. Dear gentlemen, I then measured in a given situation what is the criterion that can really point us at saying, this is better than the other one, and I think this argument of compliance with EU legal assets is a good argument for the given situation. I think it's good and, right to tell you, it seemed to me at one point, as if someone was reading the NS programme decided to also write the bill, but also to explain those amendments that were accepted and those amendments that were not accepted. Our program makes it very clear, and to remind the MPs here of that, clearly to Europe. We have written there, honored gentlemen, and therefore we respect the reason for not accepting this amendment, that EU membership is a top priority for Serbia, and that the harmonisation of our legal regulations with the legal assets of the EU should be part of it, gentlemen. Well, it's a civilization environment for us, and I think we should point out that every time we get a cause for it and in our debates, at the National Assembly sessions, Madam and Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38534	Thank you. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. You have to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38535	Do I run this time old or start over new, like NS?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38536	Let's start over. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, respected guests from the Ministry and distinguished guests from the Ministry, respected National Assembly presidents, to member of the 40th National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted a single amendment separately. The amendment I have made has not been accepted, but I am expressing one satisfaction, gentlemen of honour because an amendment was accepted, which was submitted on behalf of the NS President, the MP, Mr Zoran Zivkovic. We, gentlemen, have noticed that there is a need in Article 40 for one content intervention, but also for one intervention we call language-technical. This content has not been accepted, we have read the explanation and we think that the explanation is good, and we have noticed that in two positions of this member, in two places it does not suffice by comma. Of course, as is the order, and I mean the duty of every MP, we have submitted an amendment with that amendment and the amendment has, of course, been accepted. I must say here, that our argument to accept this amendment, even though someone would say it's a language-technical matter, is about respecting one of the greatest principles on which the Constitution of our Republic, our laws, our offices, regulations, etc. rests. It is a great principle of rule of law, Your Honor, and therefore I think it is very important that I also explain why it is good that this amendment I, to say one more thing, is that I am still surprised by the party, whose member and minister, there is no clear stance, - bravo, MPs of the opposition, in this case the NS, for this act in parliament, respected gentlemen and respected presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38538	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38539	Thank you, Your Honors President, I'm reporting for an amendment to Article 40. The bill, submitted by counterpart Pavicevic and of course by counterpart Zivkovic. In the proposal for a law on strong alcoholic beverages in Article 40, point 1 of the words of categories 1 to 14 is replaced by the words of categories 15 and 47, with a reason, I am reading the explanation of my colleague Pavicevic - I consider it to be an error in typing the text, since Article 7 is paragraph 1. The draft law provides that no alcohol may be added to beverages of category 1 to 14. This is a text-knocking mistake, colleague Pavicevic, as usual, respected president. And Article 7 of this Act provides for a way of producing certain categories of alcoholic beverages, but this is a Article 40 that is prescribed in which they are described, represent and declare the mixture. So, since the government didn't accept this amendment either, I won't vote for it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38540	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38541	This is an accepted amendment, it's become an integral part of the law, and it's one of those four, and it's totally fine. Is intervention part of our centuries-old struggle to protect Serbian language and spelling, grammar, so I think that each of us is an amendment that has such a goal should be accepted, and it's not the demeaning of the promoter or anything but we simply think that everyone can be stolen by a mistake, and then someone is looking at it a little bit more precisely at that point can and correct that mistake. I think it's good, and that's how it should be understood. Several times in today's debate, the rakija of the Serbian president has been mentioned in various contexts, and yet without any ill intentions, it would be very interesting for the Serbian public to tell us what the fate of the rakija is, will anyone, anyone, be able to produce rakija for their own needs and distribute it commercially. A gift is a commercial distribution as soon as someone puts a label on it and it's a gift, and it's going to be in the context that public office holders can't do commercial work. Whether Serbia's president can produce even for his own needs in a commercial sense, brandy or not. So it's a question of a very professional character without the idea of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38542	Thank you. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, honored guests and guests from the ministry and the honourable president of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 48, which I have submitted, is one of the four accepted amendments that we have submitted to this bill, we Members of the People's Party. Since this amendment, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, is accepted, I would like to say, in particular, that it is my pleasure that Members of Parliament, such as Ms Vlahovic or the MPs of the People's Parliament, will, in the day of the vote, vote in favour of this bill, when they vote in favour of the bill, know that they are also voting for the four amendments that we National MPs of the New Party have tabled. So I would ask, let me say and recommend both Mrs. Vlahovic and Mr. People's MPs from the SNS to sometimes report for the word and when we talk about the New Party's accepted amendment, and not only when we have a case that no amendment has been accepted, but then it must have been brought to a little party's ideas, he says - here, I am not voting for this amendment and the ministry has accepted this amendment for a reason. I am now asking the MPs and MPs of the Progressive Party, which sometimes does not appear when the amendment is accepted, and then they say, we will gladly vote for one amendment or for several amendments prepared by opposition MPs, and not only to remain in this part that is negatively directed towards the actions of some MPs. Dear President, thank you so much. I wanted to say so much about this accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38544	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. The replica or the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38545	Replica, but make it Madam President, if possible, to follow the amendment anyway, and here to accept the challenge of the promoter of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38546	By amendment, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38547	To accept the challenge of the amendment promoters that there is never a response to accepted amendments, but now I will address another challenge, give the amendment promoters to the amendments, not to the statistics, not to some support that does not exist, not to some things that have nothing to do with Parliament, and more to do with some fantasies, please just that in future, any accepted or not accepted amendments speak about the subject, talk about the law, talk about the amendments, not as a copy-past, that for every amendment the same, only that percentage varies according to the accepted or not accepted amendments, but if that percentage is a percentage of eight percentage in relation to your group and your coalition that has entered parliament and that is 8% of that barely priced 5% of which you are, I believe that this support is on those 0.4%, that you will remain in favour of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38548	Thank you. Members of the Social Democratic League of the League of Vojvodina submitted together to the 49th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the ministry and respected National Assembly presidents, Mrs Gojkovic, the amendment to Article 51, which we submitted to this Bill, is I think now the President's opportunity to respond to a claim that was not appropriate, I think, just before. I've been talking all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38550	It is not an opportunity, it is an opportunity to tell of article 51, item 1 and point 6) is deleted, and so far point 7) – 22) exists in point 6. - 21), and it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38551	That's right, that's right. So, I've been talking all day about explanations for our amendments. Now here is the turn of the amendment to Article 51, and there was no amendment, the Honored President, as is the case now, and I did not explain exactly what the contents of our amendments were, starting from Article 9 to Article 51. Then I don't understand, um, when one MP, for example. SNS, like Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38552	Ambassador, we're done, we've figured out "the line, the point".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38553	No, there's another...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38554	That's right, we get it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You interrupt me and Mr Babic does not. ) You spoke in the past when you explained the amendment that it would be good for someone from the SNS parliamentary group to come forward and praise you for anything and grant you a wish, a challenge was accepted, as MP Zoran Babic said... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: But not according to the amendment. )......................................................................................................... Because you're not on the amendment either, so let's move on. 13 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I see the pleasure on the faces and people's MPs of the SNS when we can and we adopt these amendments that have been accepted, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly and the especially respected guests from the ministry and honored guests from the ministry, the amendment to Article 52 is one of the four amendments adopted to this bill, which, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, have jointly submitted to the MP Zoran Zivkovic and I and I hope that this explanation of this amendment is now in line with what is your assessment that the Rules of Procedure have been held. I now expect, for example, the esteemed presidents that since the minister has announced that she accepts the amendment for the reasons set out in our explanation, to report to Mr Martinovic and Mrs Mrdakovic and Mr Babic to say - bravo; not to report for the word, to get the right to say - we accept the challenge; and then not to say what they have reported for the word. Come on, gentlemen, let's stick to the words and when we say, we accept the challenge; we want to say what is appropriate to say, not to talk again against what is said to be said. I, of course, thank you for the reminder, respected presidents that in conclusion with this session and by researching the New Party's public opinion on 8.18% support in the electoral body if they were to perform independently in the elections, in fact, they must now be extraordinary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38556	Thank you, MP, here we are in the EPP section, and there are expensive seconds on RTS. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38557	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since we haven't heard the amendment from the amendment's promoter, we haven't even heard the amendment's explanation, I'm going to read the amendment. In Article 52(1), point (7) is amended as follows: ‘A declaration of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication does not include the number of solutions, i.e. a certificate allowing the placing on the market of a certain quantity of strong alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication from a specific production of the year produced,’ Article 39(1). The amendment shall be accepted for reasons given in the amendment. Since we are often talking about academic honesty here, and we are also talking about parliamentary, parliamentary honesty, because of the possibility that someone has copied these amendments that are acceptable to the government, in the view of the minister acceptable, here I am giving the challenge to the amendment's promoter that he says this amendment with an explanation without reading. If he signed it, it means he wrote it. If he wrote it, he must know these three lines and three lines of reasoning. Here's the challenge for the amendmentr to say these three lines by heart, without paper. If he doesn't say, it means he's prescribed it. If he prescribed it, it means he's plagiarized, means he's representing someone else or I don't know what? On the other hand, my smallness has proposed 84 amendments for the past year. Of the 84 amendments, it was accepted, the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted 78, which means that I, like other SNS MPs, promoters of SNS policy, by this means of thinking of the amendments, can freely say that SNS has the support of 90% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulations, dear colleagues, here's a year and a few days from 50% we've grown to 90%, if you listen to the logic of the amendment promoter. I can see that the amendment promoter is so keenly hearing to repeat the three lines he has proposed as an amendment, excellent that it has been accepted and here, I ask you, President, to give the word to Mr Pavicevic, whom I have now publicly called, to get the right to have these three lines proposed, which he signed, to use them by heart, without paper and to repeat the reasoning he wrote. Otherwise, he's plagiarized, and we're all fighting plagiarists.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected guests and guests from the Ministry, only in totalitarian systems can one party be proud when there is 90% or more of the support in the election, gentlemen. And as far as I can tell, Mr. Babic is now boasting about it here, which means that if we follow this speech, there are some totalitarian tendencies that we have today almost and only in North Korea. Well, it's not North Korea's role model, is it, gentlemen, here? Another thing I want to say in the replica of the People's MP to Mr Babic, Mr Babic has called here on the principle of academic integrity, knowing that plagiarism, because he mentioned that term, the most severe form of violation of the principles of academic integrity. And, gentlemen, I am now asking Mr Babic - why at the beginning of our regular session of our National Assembly does not vote for the principle of academic integrity when now, during this debate, we are called upon to this principle and to say - we are all for this principle? Well, Mr. Granny, we're not all for that principle. We are for this principle, we are fighting plagiarism, and you, Mr. Babic, since you do not vote for academic honesty, because you tolerate plagiarism, you are not fighters for academic honesty and you do not have the right, gentlemen, to call on academic honesty during our debates here in the National Assembly. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38560	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38561	I would call upon a respected amendment promoter and invite him to, however, teach as a lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences, he should know that there are no more parties in totalitarian regimes, no more parties. So he either wants to accuse someone falsely, or there's an ignorance on the scene, or by freezing a working relationship at the Faculty of Political Sciences, he's frozen what he knew and learned at that respected college. On the other hand, what I was saying was confirmed -- plagiarism in the Serbian Parliament. Someone wrote the amendment, which proved to be good and quality, both the Ministry and the Honorable Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have shown by accepting the amendment. Someone put a signature under what someone else wrote. Now, when someone else writes and someone else signs here, so they can't even interpret, what's that other than plagiarism? Do we need a law to condemn plagiarists in the National Assembly, or do we need one honesty, so to say what is true or do we need honesty and say – some people have helped us to do such a thing, not just a mere signing, with an explanation that is the same every time, not just for one law, and for all amendments to one law? Every time it's the same on any law to be. I've been watching the amendment. Every time, two minutes of explaining the amendments to any law is told the same story, ends with the rule of law. Of course, we should also start and finish, but the plagiarism in the National Assembly has been proven at work by the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38562	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, respected National Assembly President Mrs. Gojkovic, has just now confirmed once again that we today have totalitarian tendencies in our society, honored gentlemen, even here in the institutions. I'm Mr. Babic, I think, here very clearly, when someone calls for 90% of the support of a group of people of a people, then they're totalitarian tendencies, as we can see today by some elements, for example. North Korea. Then I ask our citizens and all the MPs here – does Mr Babic need us here to focus on creating a single-party system, that our National Assembly be the Central Committee of the Communist Union or something like that, so that there is no opportunity or need for dialogue, debate, etc. As soon as we see, Honored President Gojkovic, totalitarian tendencies, elements of hidden or unhidden totalitarianism, I consider my obligation to act especially here in the House of our National Assembly. Mr Babic then reminds me that the opportunity to say its position on the principle of academic integrity will already be, I hope, next week, when I will use three minutes to explain once again the need to vote here for academic honesty. And now I call on Mr Babic to tell us – whether he will vote in favour of academic honesty next week or not at all, and thus actually vote against academic integrity in our system of higher education, respected presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38564	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38565	I'd like to make an amendment. I think it's the job of every MP to perform his and his legislative and control functions. It is also the job of every MP to write amendments, to propose amendments. The government's job, but the government's job is to keep the dialogue going. There's no need to be ashamed of the dialogue. It is also a dialogue when the amendment is rejected and accepted, but in one atmosphere of exchange of arguments, no exchange of insults. The dialogue needed by our society is burdened by such cheerleading trends when each accepted amendment is part of the dialogue presented as a victory. I apologize to my colleagues who may have been taking a nap. I'm glad some colleagues are having so much fun about it. I would also remind the amendment promoter, but also the Serbian public, that plagiarism is a criminal offence under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Does a billman like that want this to not be a crime? Whether he wants to sharpen or liberalize this relationship or wants to re-enter a few minutes or a few dozen minutes of media space for his personal promotion. All those involved in politics, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, feel these winds of attacks on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on Alexander Vukic, representing something that is not, because if it were what the amendment promoter is saying, it would not have created from one party in just seven years, from a young party such as SNS, would not have created the most massive party. The most massive SNS party became not through the exercise of power, became through the opposition, when we were opposition MPs and the opposition party. People came for energy. People were looking for SNS membership because they wanted to change our country, because they believed Alexander Vukic's politics, and now someone who in just a few days of 2003 in the rough days, in the difficult days that I wish had never happened, and I hope it never happens again in any country, or in ours, has arrested just over 13,000 people, when the darkness prevailed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... In 25 years of renewed parliamentaryism in Serbia when there was only no TV transmission? Only at the time of Zorn Zivkovic's reign, and this new Zoran Zivkovic, who was then, like old Zoran Zivkovic, the same Zoran Zivkovic with the same mechanisms, only then was there not a picture from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Only then was the rule of law abolished, not only for a little more than 13,000 people, who were arrested in the "Sabbe" action, but for many others who lived in fear of these months, fear of political retribution, personal retribution, so there is no such thing as North Korea. What about those days, those months, what about our society's reaction to such politics and such policymaking? He lost in his party, lost in the elections, lost everywhere, and now adding a prefix, "new", "new", well, better instead that you put "venish", bleached, bleached, I don't know how to define, but not another, the same man, the same abolition of the rule of law, the same arrests. Of the 13,000 people arrested in the "Sabbe" action, how many were convicted? Those who have done terrible things and where they are meant to be are condemned. What about the other people? What about those people with whom it was a political, personal account of the then Prime Minister? What about those great funds that had to be paid off to these people because they were illegally held in custody for months? It's that totalitarian prefix in the New Party. Now, you and those who honor the SNS and primarily the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who in seven years managed to bring together the most massive, largest circle of people in Serbia, who managed to create the largest political party in the Balkans, who managed to change our country, which managed to make Serbia, a country that unfortunately has set foot in the city, while individuals have made a stronger country, a more promising country, a country in which we will no longer talk about the light at the end of the tunnel, a country where we will talk about getting out of the tunnel. (Branka Karavidić, from the post: See what your MPs are doing. They're taking pictures. I apologize to my colleague if anyone, anyone, has done something inappropriate from the SNS, and thank you for that kind of warning. I think dialogue between the government and the opposition is necessary. I wish there was more to this dialogue, that we weren't afraid of the point of merger, that we wouldn't run away from those points of merger. I think those merger points are the most stable in our society. I think our citizens are expecting a deal, not a presentation and acceptance of an amendment where instead of a score, a point and a representation as a victory, I don't know who or what. This is how it was shown and proven, and I was able to show that the amendment promoter doesn't know what he signed, that what he signed was given to him by someone else, and when you sign someone else, not yourself, it's plagiarism. And without the law and with the law, but with one MP's congratulation which I hope we will succeed in rooting in our assembly and rooting it for future generations and for better people who will sit in these benches, that the plagiarism of the amendment never happens again. I call once again, although I have spoken for eight, almost nine minutes, although one average man in nine minutes can memorize these three words that stand in the amendment, Mr Pavicevic, the amendment's pronouncing that without reading it by heart, from word to word, he says what he signed, and he did sign if it was his. If it's not his, then it's a proven plagiarizer from Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38566	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Please, Mrs. Karavidic, don't throw it away, because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. (Branka Karavidić, from the post: Let your MPs not be photographed. Is that why you're throwing yourself out of the bench? I, as chairman, can react if an MP's presentation is brought down the dignity of the National Assembly, but you can't throw it out of the bench and interfere with the MP as he speaks. (Branka Karavidić, from the place: I apologize. I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry and respected Vice-President of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr Becic, are two things that I now wish to announce to Mr Babic. Mr Babic, commenting on our amendment, also commented on the state of emergency we had in the country in 2003, gentlemen. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: It was introduced in an anti-constitutional manner. I now want to remind everyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38568	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38569	... People's MPs, because I believe everyone knows that in March of this year, the first democratically elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen, was killed. A man was killed after which, gentlemen, a state of emergency was imposed, because then a member of the MUP killed the Prime Minister at the entrance to the government building. The "Sabbe" action, gentlemen, is a reaction to the murder of the Prime Minister, and Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who managed the "Sabbe" action and was then Prime Minister until the next government, respected gentlemen, was formed, and because of his actions during the "Sabbe" action, in my opinion, deserves congratulations and respect. He showed one terrible heart and one courage and a commitment to what is the foundation of a democratic, political order in Serbia. I think this is an opportunity to say it here, dear gentlemen, and certainly not what Mr. Babic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38570	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I didn't expect you to say that one event, I won't get into what you said, allows or gives the legitimacy to arrest people, no matter how they do it. When you speak, please don't say words that will cause public harassment. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38571	Mr. Chairman, I respect you and all the MPs in this house, but we cannot talk about that some event has caused some arrests in Serbia. The event was the prime minister's murder and he was the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, who was killed in a cowardly and ferocious manner in front of his office when he left for work. Then came Sabela's campaign, which lasted as long as it lasted and led to this country not being dominated by mobs, crime and murderers. By playing the case, whoever felt the excessive use of police force on his skin could have, from that year to this day, complained to the prosecution... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38572	I'm not gonna let you talk anymore and break the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bozovicu, at least be honest with me when you report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, at the beginning, I said it was a terrible event and I don't want to go into an event that happened at all and the terrible killing of the prime minister and something that was very bad at that time in the Republic of Serbia, because it's one topic that is broad and that we don't need to get into it. I also said that there is no thing that, I believe, can happen in Serbia, which is why innocent people should be arrested and over 13,000 people put in jail. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: You did not say that. ) I thought that, if you understood differently, I apologize, but that is exactly the answer to what Mr. Pavicevic said, that there is no thing that can happen which is why innocent people should be arrested and why 13,000 people should be arrested. And what happened, killing the prime minister, that's a terrible thing that shouldn't have happened in Serbia. Thank you. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38573	I thank the chairman. I think it is high time to stop now by politicising historical events, by democratic approach to the death of 12,000 people through arrests and all other things that are not the subject of today's session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. If someone wants to open those questions can open them elsewhere and answer many other questions that will open up in this way, I'm not sure they can answer all these questions, but it's high time to go back to what we came here to do today, to discuss amendments to the law and to contribute through constructive dialogue to making this law voted as high-quality as possible. We in the entire coalition, the ruling one, are ready to respect all the principles that respect the whole world, especially the European Community to which we seek, where both business and academic integrity are present, but today it is not the topic of the agenda. I ask you to give too much warning to my colleagues on my right to act which in no case should fall back from the Rules of Procedure, action that must be in line with the dignity of this Parliament, the role of the MP and what we send to the citizens here as a message. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38574	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. It was precisely in the direction of my attempt to explain to the MPs that it was not a subject and that such things should not be politicised and that these are topics that we could have arguments on both sides. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if academic honesty allows me to comment on the amendments, since lately my right to comment on the amendments has been disputed, so on the proposal for this amendment, I should remind the promoter that democracy is leading equality. We are on the board today respecting the desire to continue this process of democratisation of this society, looking for common solutions, because democracy implies access to different opinions to come to terms, which has slowed me down several times. We do not want to do what he does by looking for common solutions to adopt several of their amendments. This must have proved our democratic orientation, but the amendment's proposing my right to comment on the laws and amendments violated the basic principle of democracy, which is equality and, through the proposals of its amendment, he even dared to talk about total regimes. So someone who teaches academically at the Faculty of Political Sciences, someone who has doctored political theories, although for the general public, this doctorate on this political theory as a doctorate on mosquito profiling, can't prove what he's doctored on. So someone who doctored on political theories contests the right of another MP, democratic right, the right to equality to comment on his or anyone's amendments and comes and says - you are defended by Marijan Rističević, interprets the laws, interprets the amendments, thereby contesting, not only my right, has challenged his diploma. Imagine him as a doctor of political science, who teaches as a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, acts undemocraticly, what can his students learn from that? We are fine, respecting democratic processes, right to approach different opinions, of course and his, that is his inalienable right, we have sought common solutions and found them by adopting this amendment. However, we finally got the claim that we are totalitarian, etc. And he's a Democrats. If my right is disputed, and the democracy of the majority government, counting votes, etc., of course, and procedural rights of the minority, if he contests the rights guaranteed to him, he needs to think fatly about his doctorate, his title. As far as I've noticed, he's for a specific kind of dictatorship, he'd be for the rule of knowledge, but since that knowledge is thin, because it's not acquired by perception and experience, but rather by drumming, reciting, remembering other people's texts, as I see it, he'd stand for the rule of calling. Calling as far as I can tell from his behavior doesn't guarantee our knowledge. The difference between college-educated and wise is great. He's just college-educated, because wisdom doesn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38576	Please, Mr. Risticevic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38577	I'm back on the amendment. During the interpretation, he also cited the prime minister's murder as some argument, not telling us who the federal interior minister would be and who had been throwing a party for several months before the prime minister's murder in Kula, along with the Special Operations Unit. The Federal Minister and the Republic Minister together. Is that a political background? Is it someone who wants to transfer their political background to us? So much... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38578	Please, as I told Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think we really need to talk about this today. First, it is not the topic of the agenda, and it is too painful for the Republic of Serbia to open it at the moment. Thank you. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38579	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will read Article 54 for understanding all that is involved – a fine of 20,000-150.000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a natural person if he exposes and sells strong alcoholic beverages at the fair, the market, in a catering and sales facility and others. I suggested the amendment to throw out the word fair. We agreed that in the previous part of this discussion, both in principle and in particular, this law primarily applies to small producers, that small producers should return to legal flows, with which we absolutely agree. We agree that this law is a step in relation to the previous law that was full of gaps and technologists and all other things for small producers. What I cannot simply agree with you and what I have insisted in principle is to allow small producers to make the brandy they produce for their own needs to exhibit at the fair. With a text like this, they won't be able to do it, Madam Minister. Šumadija and Serbia are full of different events from the fall, I have already listed some, such as "Opanačka Berba", "Smederjevska fall", "Zupska Berba" etc., etc. We all boast there, and you've come to these manifestations, thank God and we boast with a lot of visitors, and what's going to happen tomorrow, already next year, when this event happens and when I bring or friends to the stand of my brandy, which I've produced for my own needs, which I won't sell on what I've exposed with grapes, with apples, with whatever third, and comes the agricultural inspector and says – sir, but you have no right to do so, here's a member of the law, here's Article 54, and we can write a sentence? It is something that I absolutely think is the word here – a fair of excess, that it could be thrown out of this text of law and article 54, because we are all from certain local backgrounds, and people will ask us, how did you allow such a slip to be found in such an important law, one more time to mention, especially for Shumadi, and you yourself said that about half of the production of schumadia. So once again, I ask you to simply consider it. I think that this amendment is extremely well-intentioned and that I should accept it and ask my colleagues and colleagues to later, and we will vote very quickly, vote for this amendment, because it only allows tomorrow's brandy produced for its own needs to be found on stands of different events that we are under fairs in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38580	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38581	Why is this amendment not acceptable? It's not acceptable because the fair involves a event where people who want to see what the papers are in some production. I suppose you'd like them to see the newspaper, too, when it comes to the production of alcoholic beverages, or the production of brandy. Rakia can and should be found on these stands, but the brandy that's in the original package. What does that mean in the original package? It means that behind that brandy offered to visitors, consumers, there is someone who guarantees safety. This is a matter of security. If the manufacturer who manufactures for himself brings out brandy for his own purposes and exhibits it at the fair, then he must guarantee security. In order to guarantee it has to be registered, which means that a small manufacturer with this law can be registered and can thus present his product, or can sell his product to a registered producer who will re-expose the product. So it's only a matter of security which we are in charge of, and we have to guarantee consumers that someone is behind it. What you are proposing does not guarantee the consumer a safe product and could happen in various ways, these days we have heard "Zozonik", various other products that could endanger the health of the population. That is the only reason why this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38582	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38583	With all due respect, Minister, I must say you're wrong. I'm just going to give you a little example. This year was 52th in a row “Opplenačka Berba”. In those 52 years, millions and millions of visitors have passed, and there has never been an absolutely untimely event. I don't see why you would now remember something that we all remember from the bad one "The Zozovac" and a large number of poisoned people associate with something that citizens, i.e., first of all, agricultural producers prepare throughout the year to come to certain events, such as "Karlovska Berba", not to mention only "Oplenačka berba" or "Smederjevska fall" or "Zupska Berba". Has anyone in this room ever heard of an unhinged event happening there, of anyone having any kind of problem? It is not responsible and I can argue and therefore believe that these comparisons are not in place. If we had already made a big step to help small producers first, a large part of that, to say, of the gray emissions of heavy alcohol products, should now be put into legal flows. It was possible to find a modus and in this law that we simply don't fear tomorrow either us organizers or people who come and exhibit their products for their own purposes. I don't see why they'd be harassed by a farm inspection. I'm not saying it will be. We've had very rigid provisions in the old law, but we've come into a situation to write to the ministry, to beg the inspectors, to use some kind of, let's say, authority to beg someone not to apply the law. We're going to have to do it with this law in the future, but it's not commendable for you or any of us in this room, the MPs, because if this member of the law is going to apply tomorrow, or next year, it's going to mean it, and you can deny it if it's not true, that tomorrow whoever shows up on "Smederjevska fall" and exposes his own product, fruit brandy and comes in a nice inspector and asks him why you did it, give it, and he says, "I'm not a registered producer, and there are thousands and thousands in central Serbia, I'm talking about Shumadi, and I'm going to get a fine of 20 to 150,000 dinars depending on how the inspector who controls him. So I think this is the kind of thing that should have been found and heard in the ministry, and I think when we talked at the last board session when it was a principle debate, I saw that you had the will to find an appropriate solution here, and I don't think it's too late to find a solution here that's really going to be an appropriate solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38584	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Replica, Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38585	As soon as possible. Exactly our goal is to simplify, to make it cheaper for all those who produce brandy as goods for the market to register and enter legal flows and legally present their product at the fair. If someone produces for their own purposes, why would he even represent himself and advertise himself at the fair? That's the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38586	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38587	I'm really sorry. I know it's the end of the debate, but I just have to react to this. Look, we're talking not about classic fairs, but about economic-tourism manifestations. We're talking about stands where 10 different products are found and really what the minister said doesn't make sense. We're not talking about people who produce brandy to sell what they live on professionally. We're talking about people who come and have wine and brandy and honey and other things, other agricultural products. To get more into the details, please, I think this is for all of us to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38588	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I'm taking a break until 2:00. Please, Mr. Jovanovic, if you could just approach the chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-05-0.u38589	Dear Members of Parliament, I remind you that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, on the basis of Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2015. Therefore, before we move to a decision on these proposals, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the High Council of Justice. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, abstentioned – one, voted six, of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – no one, with abstentions, voted seven, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 201(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a unique search. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft decision. We move to the seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of a Member of the State Council of Prosecutors. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 201(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want the word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a unique search. Having concluded this item of the agenda, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft decision. Since the Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, November 5th, 2015, starting at 14.15pm, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Strong Alcohol Drinks. I put the draft law on strong alcoholic beverages to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – one, the abstention – there is no vote, not six, of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 159 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159, of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158, out of the 161 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159, of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 29th and 29th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted the 32nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs to the 36th amendment, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina party submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 159 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on strong alcoholic beverages, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – one abstention – there is no vote, four of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on strong alcoholic beverages. We move to item 2 of the agenda – A PROPOSAL OF THE PROTOCOL ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE APPLICATION WITH THE FRAMEWORK OF THE SLAVING OF THE SAVA I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Protocol on Application Management under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges who are first elected to the Judge's Office I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 153, with five of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We are moving to agenda item 4 - Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Justice I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 153, with five of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Permanent Delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEETING OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT MEETING I hereby put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of a member of the High Council of the judiciary, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Milan Škulić, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, by majority of the votes of all MPs for a member of the High Council of the judiciary. Allow me to congratulate on your and my own behalf a member of the High Council on the election and wish him success in his work. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE D.A. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly selected Dr Zoran Stojanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, by majority of the votes of all MPs for a member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, a member of the State Council of Prosecutors on the election and wish him a lot of success in his work. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decisions, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
