ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40898	Thank you. Since we have a united debate today and a lot of agenda points, I would only say a few preliminary remarks on the 2016 Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and on several laws directly related to it, and later we will have the opportunity to provide further information on the meaning of these proposals and the need for them to be discussed today in a united debate. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, respected citizens of Serbia, allow me to present the proposal for the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. I will present to you the basic elements of the budget as well as the economic and fiscal policy that will be implemented through the proposed budget. I also propose, with the budget, that the Assembly adopt two tax laws - amend and supplement the Law on the Budgetary System and amending and supplementing the Excise Act. First of all, I would like to stress that the budget is addressed to the Assembly on time and without breaking the legal deadlines prescribed by the Budget System Act. However, I would like to add that this year we were conditioned by the dynamics of negotiations with the Fund. So we couldn't go to the finalisation of the draft budget until the conclusion of negotiations with the Fund that took place on 10 and 11 November. We are all in a position to set short deadlines and prepare the budget and discuss the budget and bring the budget. Economic and fiscal policy in the previous period has established stability of public finances and the overall macroeconomic environment. The economic activity is located on the path of accelerated recovery, and the fiscal deficit is drastically reduced. A strong shift has been made in the conduct of fiscal policy with results greater than expected. Already in the first year of application of the programme, we, as you know in October of last year, started with initial measures, and since January 1st, the 2015 budget has been in full implementation of the programme supported by the IMF. The country's better fiscal position has reduced the need for borrowing and service costs. At the same time, improving the business investment environment enabled the creation of a basis for reviving investment activity in the country. The credibility of the government's economic policy has been confirmed by the IMF to sign the arrangements at the beginning of this year and is supported by other relevant international financial institutions of the World Bank, the European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, as well as by rating agencies, domestic and world professional public. Current developments suggest that the country's macroeconomic prospects are improved and that recovery of economic activity has been intensified. Internal and external macroeconomic balances have been reduced and investment inflow has increased. Just to emphasize one element, our current balance of payments, the deficit is financed entirely by foreign direct investments, means, in the most qualitative way. The internal and external macroeconomic balance has been reduced and the inflow of investments has been increased, as I said, consistently implementing fiscal consolidation with the start of structural adjustment has had a positive impact on the investment environment. The desired start-up recovery structure is further confirmed by positive trends in the labour market. The pay-balance deficit as an external balance indicator has been significantly reduced and is financed, as I said, by permanent sources. Economic movements in the international environment have a positive impact on Serbia's economy. The trend of global demand, the acceleration of investment growth and the growth of private consumption will define the moderate growth of export and import activities of our largest foreign trade partners. The euro zone's economy has been resistant to the slowdown of global trade flows in previous periods due to the euro's depression and the decline in oil prices. Further recovery of external demand, above all, of our largest foreign trade partners in Western Europe, will have a positive impact on our exports and investments. The 2016 draft budget is based on the following assumptions: current macroeconomic trends and revised projections of Serbia's medium-term development and planned economic fiscal policy in 2016. The macro-economic movements and projections were the main elements of the government in 2014 and continued to implement a programme of strong fiscal consolidation and structural reforms in 2015. The fiscal and structural adjustment programme was introduced in difficult macroeconomic conditions following the devastating floods. Serbia's economy and in 2015 came out of recession. This year we had a growth of 0.8%, corrected, and that happened in the most difficult conditions. Remember, in the third quarter of 2014, we had a social product drop of 3.7%, because at the quarter level that rate is constantly improving, and now we have reached 0.75%, 0.8% for the whole year, while the last quarter has grown 2%. I expect growth to be established in the following year at 1.75% and over 2.5% in 2017. Business ambience reforms, with the improvement of the financial position of the company primarily due to the decline in world market oil prices and lower debt costs, have positively affected investment growth. Estimated growth, investment growth is 8.2%, and oil prices, lower borrowing costs and increased inflows, reduced short-term negative fiscal consolidation on final consumption. Systemic improvement of the economic environment has enabled foreign and domestic investment to grow. Foreign, direct investment in 2015 is estimated at 1.6 billion euros. The growth in exports, goods and services in 2015 is estimated to be 7.8% year-on-year, and will also reach 15.6% of the billion euros, which is about 5.8% more than in 2001, or 60%, compared to 2008, the last year before the global global global crisis. The reduction of external trade imbalances has been supported by structural adjustment of domestic economy and a decline in the improvement of extreme competitiveness. More favourable movements in the country's foreign trade exchange, balance of payments, are the result of favourable international environment impulses, as well as the positive effects of fiscal consolidation on the country's balance of payments. The estimated current balance deficit in 2015 is 4.7% of GDP, down from last year by 1.3% and fully covered by the net inflow of foreign direct investment. The successful coordination of monetary fiscal policy in the conditions of fiscal consolidation has enabled the relaxation of monetary policy, the gradual reduction of the reference interest rate, while maintaining the stability of the course. The average inflation in 2015 is estimated to be around 1.5%, and the reference interest rate has been reduced to historical levels, the lowest level, 4.5%, and in 2008 the reference interest rate was 17.75% and the average inflation was 11.7%. The situation in the labour market is characterised by the growth of formal unemployment and the conditions of increased participation and the continuation of the unemployment rate. The labour market indicator from the labour force survey suggests a continuation of unemployment cuts, as also confirmed by the National Employment Service data. According to the labour force poll, the unemployment rate has been reduced to 16.7%, and in this period the employment rate has increased by 0.4 percentage points while reducing the informal employment rate by 2.1 percentage points to 20.4%. Serbia's economic movements and prospects in 2016 will largely depend on the movement of the international economic environment, as well as continuing to implement the fiscal policy measures. Successfully implementing fiscal policy, they have made it possible to create a basis for stable and sustainable growth in the coming years, GDP growth in 2016, as I said, will be revised from 1.5% to 1.75% and will be driven by growth in investment spending. After seven years of real reduction and stagnation of population consumption, a certain growth of living standards is expected in 2016, the fiscal space provided by strong structural adjustments, 2.5% of the social product in 2015, will allow for a slight real growth of state spending in 2016. I think this result of the structural deficit deserves one sentence of comment. We, by entering this program, have planned structural adjustment of the 4% deficit. In the first year we achieved 2.5%, which is more than expected by 0.6 or 0.7%, and thus we approached the target and based on the measures envisaged in this year, we think we will continue with the same planned dynamics, that we are approaching the target value of the structural deficit in 2017. Translated into a common language from 6.6% of the deficit, we will reduce it to 2.6% below the level of the Mastrict, which will be sustainable and will lead to a reduction in the participation of debt in the social product and hopefully create such conditions that Serbia will be an attractive place for investment, economic growth and the improvement of all citizens. The way to that goal is not easy, but this is the only way to make all these elements come true in the right way. The 2016 macroeconomic projection envisions a continuation of all macroeconomic imbalances. The investment cycle that we started in 2015 will be the development factor that will enable economic restructuring and continued structural reforms to heal the economy. The results, so far undertaken reforms, improves the business environment, will ensure investment growth, whose GDP will be a growth of 1.3%. So, it's from 1.7, it's gonna be 1.3, and as Serbia's economy is import-dependent, imports are expected to increase, primarily due to imports of investment goods, which will affect the contribution of net GDP growth exports to be slightly positive. The projected route of real growth of goods and services exports is based on strengthening the extreme demand for domestic products and on further implementation of reforms, which will allow market share growth in export markets. Rapid export growth from imports will allow further reduction of the external trade deficit from 11.8% in 2015 to 11.4% in 2016. The balance of current payments will be negative and will amount to about 1.6 billion euros and 4.6% of the social product, respectively. It's an improvement for us, and it's still a major deficit. Thanks to the improvement of labour relations and employment regulation, on the labour market, positive developments will continue despite the rationalisation of the public sector and the process of restructuring state-controlled enterprises. The macroeconomic framework for the three-year period 2016-2018 indicates the accelerated pathway of Serbia's economy, the projected cumulative growth rate of the real social product for the next three years, will be 7.7%, based on domestic demand growth, primarily on the recovery of investments, and afterwards on the growth of the living standard of the population. Investments and economic consumption are expected to grow at an average rate of 6.1% or 1.1%, with an average annual real growth in exports and imports of goods and services of 7.2% and 4.9% respectively. Continuing the implementation of a credible fiscal consolidation plan will affect the reduction of state spending, 0.5 per year, but the moment we step out of this programme, state spending recovery is expected, especially in those elements that will mean state modernisation, the introduction of modern services, electronic states and other standards already adopted in the world. The protection of the socially most endangered layers of the population will be ensured. The start of the recovery path will allow for an increase in the share of investments, greater by 2.2 percentage points, a reduction in the share of state spending from 18.2% to 14.4% and an increase in the share of exports of goods and services, to over 50% of the social product. The net inflow of foreign investment of 1.5 billion euros per year, with the change in the structure of investment towards the exchangeable goods sector, the financing of the balance of payments, entails a decrease in the share of goods and services deficits in current transactions in the social product from 7.9% to 4.2% at the end of 2018, in order to ensure the sustainability of external debt and external liquidity and the insolvency of the country. Economic burden, fiscal policy and draft budget for 2016. The objective of the fiscal policy in the medium term is to halt the growth of the public debt of the state sector and gradually reduce it in the long term, the participation of the public debt of the general government in the period 2008-2014, more than doubled, as a result of long-term high deficits and strong growth of the debt-guaranteed debt and costs based on the stabilisation of the financial system. In that period, the increase in the rate of debt was about six percentage points and average yearly, while in 2015 the increase was reduced to 4.2 percentage points. The fiscal strategy of the government is designed to reduce this growth in 2016 by applying the measure, both on the income and on the bulk side, and in 2017, the decline of public debt in the social product is expected. This is one of the most important results and debt participation at a level comparable to a sustainable level per mastrict. The first significant measure of fiscal consolidation was adopted in 2012, and the application of the measure continued in 2013. The measures in the revenue side concerned the amendment of a large number of tax rules and the abolition of a large number of quasi fiscal burdens. On the other hand, the most significant measure was the limited wage growth in the public sector. In 2015, a new wave of fiscal consolidation measures followed, given the long-term unsustainable position and the burden of high deficit and debt levels, the future necessary funds for its repayment represent for citizens and the economy, in order to avoid an increased tax burden on the economy. The reduction of deficits is largely based on adjustments to the expenditure side. The main fiscal consolidation measures represent a reduction in public sector wages and pensions, and a partial reduction in pensions and the rationalisation of the public sector, while at the same time addressing problems and reorganising state-owned economic systems. On the receiving side, the priority is the fight against the grey economy where visible results have been achieved this year, especially in terms of income tax and contribution, control of the turnover of excise products and traffic in general. The expected achievement of revenue by the end of 2015 in certain categories exceeds the amount planned by the original budget for several reasons, due to slower adjustment of private consumption amidst the lack of expected decline in economic activity and growth in private sector earnings. On the other hand, at the level of legal traffic, increased measures have been taken to curb the grey economy, especially in the field of excise products. So during 2015, for the first time since two consecutive years, there has been a decline of about 35% cumulatively achieved growth in the volume of the legal market and tobacco products. On the rise in total income levels, labour market controls were positive. A slightly weaker tax on profit, can be explained by the partially lower profitability of the domestic oil producer due to the worldwide market movement and primarily by the effects of floods during 2014. These developments and the implementation of the measures in 2015 led to a strong structural fiscal adjustment of 2.5% of GDP, which will bear the highest burden of total fiscal adjustment in the first year of the programme, and a lower annual adjustment of around 0.75 to 1% per year is foreseen in the next medium term. This does not include adapting foreign interest, where we expect positive shifts. In 2016, we expect to continue to change the application of fiscal policy measures, which will have a structural adjustment of 0.75% for the results. The medium-term fiscal framework provides for the proposed fiscal consolidation measures to significantly reduce the general government deficit to 1.8% of GDP in 2018. So that's after the programme, we expect that at the level of the general government deficit we will be at two-thirds of the Mastrict, which allows for a sustainable deficit and a sustainable debt. The wider fiscal framework of the consolidated state sector, the Republic's budget is an integral part of the country's consolidated sector framework, which includes the local level of government including cities, municipalities and AP Vojvodina, and the organisation of mandatory social insurance for the construction and maintenance of roads. Under the total projected deficit of the general government of 4% of GDP, the deficit of the republic's budget represents its largest share of 2.9%, i.e. the rounded 3%. The deficit of social funds and local authorities is covered by central-level transfers, the rest of the deficits are largely related to loans financed by the construction of road and other infrastructures. The 2016 budget envisions total revenues of 9.997.4 billion dinars, expenditures of 1.119.2 billion dinars, which account for a deficit of 121.8 billion. The 2016 revenue projection was based on expected budget revenues by the end of 2015, projection of the movement of nominal social product and all its components and other macro-economic indicators. The planned tax revenues amount to 829 billion dinars or 83.2%, while tax revenues amount to 156 billion dinars or 15.7% of total revenues of budgets, and the rest make donations of 11.4 billion dinars. The movement of tax and non-tax revenues is the result of changes in tax policy and full application of individual measures from the previous year. The necessary structural adjustment required additional funding to ensure changes in the tax policy, both on the revenue side of six billion dinars and on the dissipated side. Additional revenue will be provided by increasing excise duties on oil derivatives to three dinars, depending on the type of derivatives, or on the amounts that were valid through regular legal indexation. The reasons that led to the decision that structural adjustments on the side of income are made by increasing excise duties on oil derivatives are a greater certainty of the collection compared to other excise products, the current expectations of favourable movements on the world oil market and the lower impact of this measure on poorer layers of the population compared to the alternative solution, the increase in VAT rates. The fiscal consolidation measures started in 2015 are largely continued in 2016 with some relaxation on the side of profits and pensions. Here is thought of a partial, partial wage increase in individual sectors and a little increase in pensions of 1.25%. The trend in employment of the nominal working amount of earnings in the public sector is affecting the movement of the total mass of earnings, the movement of employment and profit in the private sector, as a result of the expected acceleration of economic growth, will be divided positively into the movement of the real level of private consumption. In the part of excise products such as petroleum products, the change of excise policy is envisaged and revenue projections include excise duties on electricity, while the change in excise duty on tobacco processing is separated according to the dynamics provided for by the current result. Here's a comment for electricity excises most of the effects are felt in 2016, as the effective application began on September 1st and only three months reflected the increase in excise duties on electricity. The main objective of fiscal policy, i.e. public expenditure policy, presented through the draft budget is to reduce current state spending, without jeopardising the level of social income achieved and maintaining the necessary level of investment. Let me remind you, investments in this budget are surrounded by 40.9 billion. It's an explicit part of capital expenditure. In addition, we have about 27 billion additional capital expenditures located in the position of the Ministry of Economy, for incentives of the economy and incentives for investments that the SIEPA implements, located in railways, are located in the travel industry. Therefore, the total investments are much larger than those that are nominally called capital investments because, according to the old contracts made, part of the capital expenditure is located on subsidies. To be clear, the state is transferring funds to the Railways through subsidies to pay for their participation in a loan for the use of Russian credit or "The Ways of Serbia" or "The Corridors" to pay for participation in other project loans. Such a system was adopted and such a system continues today. Given the negative effects that can be, in other words, this budget is much more of a development budget than could be concluded on the basis of categories called capital expenditure and this budget is largely a social budget, since the funds provided are more than enough to cover all social expenditures and possible compensation expenditures, people who accept voluntary retirement in the public sector. In view of the negative effects that can cause the restructuring and rationalisation process, the budget provides for social policy instruments that should mitigate these effects in terms of severance and fully compensate, i.e. provide compensation on the basis of standards adopted under the applicable law or collective agreements. The funds for goods and services are restrictive and are expected to be even greater in realisation than planned. The expenditure is intended to pay the interest. They're significantly slowing down growth, although we expect that further increase in dollars will increase interest, and at the same time we plan to optimise the debt structure and reduce the average interest rate of our debt, I don't know exactly what the percentages will be, but the goal is to use long-term favourable sources, primarily the loans of the United Arab Emirates and the additional debt in the euro, to lower the average debt price by about 1%, thus reducing the interest costs to below 130 billion. They are currently planned at 139 billion. The reduction in current expenditure will allow for an increase in capital expenditure, as an important factor in economic development, the level of capital expenditure in the budget at first sight is not satisfactory, but as I said, when all the elements are added, hidden elements of capital expenditure, they are high enough, or we think they are higher than the possibility of realising capital projects. So our restriction isn't on the side of funding right now. We still have about three and a half billion untapped project loans. Our restriction is in designing a correct and efficient implementation of capital projects. The conclusion, a planned 2016 budget policy built to preserve the financial and economic stability of the state, meets the basic legal obligations towards citizens, businesses and international organisations. Also, the budgetary framework is designed to reduce the participation of public consumption in the social product, reverse the public debt path, start falling in 2017 and reach Mastricht levels by 2020, improve the public consumption structure and enable the modernisation of public administration, while retaining the quality of public services. The proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia also supports macroeconomic stability and the stability of society as a whole, with a moderate rate of growth in the economy and standards of citizens, for a short period of time, i.e. a much more dynamic growth since 2018. In this way, the concise budget contains a balanced relationship between the social and development functions of the state. Let me have one personal comment on this budget process, details of all the specific figures in the budget and the definitions we will have a chance to discuss later. We are still at a crossroads between what is our ability and our limitations and what are the wishes of all the participants in this process. So 52 divisions and 52 participants in this process want to keep their income level, or expenditure at the same time. It is very little internal motivation to reduce costs, to streamline, to achieve a more efficient state and to tell citizens that equal quality services can offer fewer people, to pay all citizens of Serbia, and that the state must offer the cheapest possible minimum cost services. That consciousness isn't developed enough for us. When it comes to the budget, it is thought that there is a source beyond the citizens and beyond Serbia's economy. It doesn't exist. Sometimes that source is artificially depicted and hidden in debt. This policy is no longer sustainable. We won't be in debt. We're saving up. What we have saved so far has given its results and to reverse the dynamics of economic growth and to compensate for the reduction of income and consumption of the state, the public sector, the growth of consumption and income of the private sector, we expect to continue this. The trend that exists with us, which is that within the framework of a programme supported by the Fund, we can't plan optimistic revenues, but we have to if we modulate ambitious expenditures, they're constantly producing tensions that we have to stay within the framework of the budget deficit that we've set ourselves. Remember, last year in this room, we claimed that the 191 billion-progress deficit and something leading Serbia to a sustainable deficit in the longer term. We are achieving a deficit that today is 50 billion, and with the payment of debts is going to be about 120 billion, which is a revised figure. That's 70 billion better, that's 600m euros in debt and therefore less interest. Although part of these reductions is not permanent, that is, part of the source of improvement is not sustainable because they are one-time dividends and mockery sources of income, debt reduction and debt reduction by 600 million, which has interest, is permanent. So, we're on our way. This year we remain in the projection of the central government deficit of about 3% and the general state of about 4%, which leads us on the structural side towards achieving the goals. Why? Because this deficit of 3% and 4%, respectively, hides in itself the one-time cost of rationalisation, the one-time cost of resolving the company's status at the Privatisation Agency, the one-time cost of reforming and closing all debts. This year we did less for rationalization, but we opened up the space to pay back some old debts waiting to be settled for years, which are the debts of "Serbiagas" to NIS, these are debts to pensioners, these are agricultural debts. We expect that next year we will resolve the remaining debts and most of the social and other costs of rationalisation, i.e. restructuring, in 2017, with a healthy perspective, for Serbia to be the country in which investments will come, in which the flows of the dynamics of economic growth, which have already been reversed, will continue and strengthen and give Serbia the opportunity to be on the path of economic recovery and the final completion of the reforms that have been going on for two decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40899	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40900	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a budget for 2016 with a set of accompanying laws. I spoke a year ago when we were making a budget for 2015, and then, as today, I can announce that the New Serbia Parliament Club will support the draft budget in the voting day. First of all, I will try to mention numbers and figures in my presentation, but in a way that also makes it as clear to the citizens who watch this TV broadcast as possible what they expect next year, and to say that a fiscal strategy for 2017 and 2018 has been adopted, so that they can see what expectations are for this medium-term period of three years ahead of us. At the very beginning, a few findings. The finance minister has already said that the total revenue of the budget, meaning the revenue side for next year will be 997 billion dinars, that the spending side will be 1,119 billion dinars, that the projected budget deficit will amount to about 122 billion dinars, or a billion euros. What is important and what should be noted is that, in fact, the most difficult year is behind us, that last year in this same parliament, when we voted on the budget, we voted for the deficit to be around 193 billion. You yourself have already stated that, according to the latest projections, the deficit will amount to around 120 billion dinars at the end of 2015, which is, let's say, some measure to which the 2016 deficit is programmed. What is good and what needs to be pointed out in particular is that in the 2015 deficit covered, and I am particularly underlining and particularly stressing, there will also be lagging obligations for subsidies for agriculture, there will be lagging liabilities for military pensioners and what is important, lagging gas payment obligations. When we talk about expectations for 2016, and citizens need to say that the projected inflation for next year is 2.8%, so that citizens can be calm on this side, that a stable rate of dinar is envisaged and that GDP growth is projected to be 1.75%. On the other hand, what we must mention at the outset and what we have certain questions, first of all, for the finance minister and the energy minister, but unfortunately, he is not in the O.R. at the moment, refers to the excise tax, i.e. oil excise duties. Oil excises, revenue from 136 billion dinars are expected in 2016, which is an increase of around 14 billion compared to 2015. You yourself, Mr. Minister, said that on average three dinars will be imposed excise on fuel from January 1st of the following year. On my behalf and on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have submitted one amendment, so I ask you to consider it, because in the proposed plan of increasing excise duties, the minimum increase of one dinar is on liquid gas, and the largest increase of four dinars on the euro diesel. Since the euro diesel is the most in use and the Euro diesel, I must say, it has a certain social component, because it is 100% used by farmers, i.e. farmers, Euro diesel is also used by transporters, and this will be automatically viewed in the increase in transport prices. That's why I asked you, and I submitted the amendment, to level the excise increases and to be two dinars for both liquid gas and Euro diesel and unleaded gasoline, or Europremium, as it is called at pumps. What is a question for the Minister of Energy, and perhaps it can be answered by Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, is, due to the decline in the price of oil on the world market, is there any possibility that this increase in excise duty does not affect retail prices of pump derivatives and that it does not, above all, reflect on Serbian citizens and that we do not have a pick-up since 1 January 2016? What I think you mentioned earlier, dear Minister Vujovic, are salaries. You gave all the budget users a binding recommendation that the fund, i.e. the salary mass, should be reduced by 3% next year. On the other hand, when we look at the expenditures for the 2016 budget, we will see an increase compared to 2015 by five billion dinars and they will reach 184 billion in the Serbian state budget. On the one hand, we understand the decisions made by the prime minister and by the government to raise salaries, and that's good. On the other hand, we have serious notices of dismissal. I'm sorry that he's not in the O.R. right now, but he's not the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, because I think that ministry is really working slow right now. Why do I say that? I will explain that last year, when we made a budget for this year, we had a clear promise from the minister that in a year we would have a register of public administration employees. From that register, unfortunately, to this day we have nothing. What we fear, dear ministers and dear fellow MPs, is that this story will be most broken on local self-government. We already have a serious announcement that in the first month of the following year, we will have layoffs in local self-government in some amount of about 16,000 people, and for that, a severance item has been left in the budget. What concerns me is the information that appears in the means of public information, and I don't understand who from the Ministry of State Administration is delivering to the press such information that is, at the very least, unverified and these data is causing a real confusion among local self-government employees. Since we don't already have that employee register, I think we should clear on the Ministry's website to see what local self-governments have been hiring people on a party basis, because I'm coming from Topola, here next to me are colleagues from Cačka, who don't have any extra employees in the state administration. We even have the need to receive additional people, but now we're all in the same basket and those local self-governments who have disciplined their policies, especially employment, and others, and now it's said that local self-governments are crowded with people, which I couldn't agree with. On the other hand, when I mention surplus employees and not only break cars in municipalities and cities, and nowhere mentions public enterprises, it is interesting and therefore I would ask the Minister of Finance for an additional explanation, which is about a cut, or part that says, of payments from public enterprises to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which are provided for in 2016 in the amount of eight billion dinars, which is less than in 2015 when around 15 billion dinars were scheduled, and you can correct us and tell us exactly how much of the public enterprises on the basic income side were paid into the Republic budget. Why am I bringing this up to you? This downsizing of employees isn't about republican public enterprises, and that's the thing that, I must say, it's not good. On the other hand, we still have subsidies to continue to provide guarantees for public enterprises' duties. The guarantees themselves a little later, but what I would like to mention in particular now are two things with which, first of all, I am asking the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance to plead, because in the 2016 budget, the increase in subsidies by six billion compared to the previous year will total 86 billion in 2016. It envisions 15 billion for the economy, a two-billion increase compared to the previous year. What's the problem and why I'm asking this question is the reduction of subsidies in agriculture. Please also Minister of Industry, and there is a Minister of Agriculture, we here have to clearly state what this country's strategy is when it comes to agriculture and is it possible that we will continue to grant subsidies, and we have strong promises that all companies, which are currently in restructuring, will be resolved by the end of the fifth month of 2016 and will, if we continue to have the subsidy here, for example, the Resavica mine, with billions of dinars that we will give in 2016, and we have Mr Sertic your firm's firm promise that with this practice to stop, that by the end of the year we will have a resolved question of "Galenice", and yet in the budget we have this story of subsidising public enterprises? On the other hand, we have a reduction in agriculture that will have exports of over two billion euros in food and agricultural products this year. I am truly afraid, and because of this, as a parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment where we ask that one billion dinars, or 500 million, be reduced from the position, to agriculture, or cattle farmers, which at this time will be the most endangered, because we have to say that mathematics is clear and that in the coming year, subsidies, per hectare of the country for farmers, will amount to up to three thousand dinars. This is something that is a blow to all agricultural producers and we are trying to find a modus in available funds in the budget, in which it can be corrected and therefore we believe it is fair and just that 500 million dinars from the subsidy position are being transferred to agriculture and that the other 500 million are being converted to "Serb Roads" for the maintenance of the travel network. I must now mention, this year the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure, construction, traffic is record - 32 billion dinars. The country's biggest investments, primarily in infrastructure, go through the ministry and it should be welcomed, but on the other hand, if I tell you that the previous year was 5.5 billion dinars of subsidies to Serbia's road maintenance network, and let's see that our travel network, above all on the first and second-row routes, which are built, which are to be maintained, is in poor condition. Unfortunately, if you look at the last year when "Serb Roads" is given excise money, from fuel excises, when they had an annual budget of about 32 billion dinars, when you look at their own toll revenue, plus a toll tax, the budget is now at a maximum amount of 16 billion when you see budget subsidies with their toll collection revenues. That money is insufficient to maintain an existing travel network. Thank you, Madam Minister, for having succeeded in one part of the loan and for all the works that are on Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 going their course, and that's a good thing, but what we need to ask, for the state roads, for the regional, for the highways, there must be more significant resources and these roads must be maintained, especially the roads in rural areas, mountainous and mountainous areas. You have regional roads, thousands of miles, which are not yet paved, and that's one trouble, and that's one problem I'm particularly undermining. The finance minister here mentioned capital investments. Some of it I'd like to underline, to point out. In Article 5. The budget law is underlining capital investments and, while I am already mentioning the maintenance of roads and the construction of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, I see that according to the fiscal strategy for 2017 for the construction of the Obrenovac - Ljig highway, more than four billion dinars are foreseen. In this year, that sum is 205 million. I'm asking the Honorable Transport Minister, since we had announcements that Chinese investors would be making concessions on this part of the highway, so, Požega or Cacak, Belgrade, what's going on with this share? I also ask, since I see that significant funds are provided, especially in 2017, for a share from Obrenovac to Umci further towards Belgrade, what about this share will be, as with the share of Cačak – Požega? Is that going to be financed from the concession? Is that going to come from the Republic of Serbia's budget? What is also important, we see when it comes to the increase in funds for the disbursement of international loans, these funds will reach 139 billion dinars in the 2017 budget, the first repayment of school infrastructure credits already appears. I've asked the Parliament's question here to the Honorable Minister of Education, so I'm asking him today, if he can just answer that question, that project a lot, to say, slowly goes, now for a variety of reasons, it can be said that the projects of the school were bad, can be said whatever he wants, but we have to say that the contractors who got these jobs are companies that have 10 employees, and they've been restored by 50 schools. And now it's happening, dear ministers, on the ground, that they're chasing subcontractors there and that we're in a situation where this project is late, and we're already in the budget for next year that we're supposed to return the credit wars that haven't even started to pay off in the right way, and we have announcements, and we as MPs support these announcements, that the school infrastructure is being restored. We took credit, unfortunately, that's where we're late. Also, another question for the minister of traffic, we here in August of last year, verified the credit for rebuilding state roads. This project has begun to be realized, but it is being realized on the basis of, let's say, the principles of the project-building. That principle, Madam Minister, has proved to be bad, we must say, and go slowly. I see that in both the Serbian Roads and the Ministry, however, special tenders are being considered for design, especially for implementation. If I'm wrong, you correct me, but I would personally, and I believe all MPs would like this project to go and to realise this loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank is going a little faster. As for the capital expenditure for next year, I have yet to ask another important question about the Republic Water Directorate, and also about the Minister of Agriculture, I have seen the projected position of 120 million dinars for water supply projects. Since we talked to Mr. Puzovic, director of the Water Directorate – is this irrigation project the biggest, say, fruit villages between Oplenc and Mines, and whether this project will be, that is, in part, how familiar I am, from the money we received from the UAR loan, and regarding irrigation. This project should begin next year 2016 to last, of course, in the years that continue in 2017 and 2018 and whether and how it will be realised, I would like to know as MPs. What is also important in this 2016 budget proposal, which New Serbia has repeatedly demonstrated, has been allocated clear anti-building protection funds. That's a good thing, and we want to say hello in particular. There shouldn't be any more problems on the ground that we've had so far that we don't know and whether one local self-government and another will fund the work I don't know, anti-urban shooters, who's going to buy anti-urban missiles. Now this position is clearly defined in the budget for next year, so I would like to take advantage of the minister's presence in emergency situations, to ask him – what happens to the project of automatic launch stations? We believe that this project will completely change Serbia's anti-building protection, modernise it on the one hand, and make it more efficient and that we no longer have every year compensation for elemental disasters and talk about anti-urban protection and the effectiveness of the anti-building protection itself in Serbia. I'd like to thank you. New Serbia will support the budget in the voting day, and I ask only for short answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40901	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40902	I would like to postpone some answers to the amendment debate, as they refer to specific figures from the budget. Just to point out that because of the people watching this in direct transmission, the subsidies in agriculture last year were planned at 28 billion dinars, this year they are also surrounded by 28 billion dinars. No cuts, 27951 are this year's subsidies to agriculture. Last year there were 28 two zeroes and some number. So there's no change in subsidies in agriculture. Secondly, there will be a special law on how subsidies are granted in agriculture and the purpose of the law is to reduce the degree of uncertainty we have today, where a huge number of farmers who have not reported before have not sought subsidies. 33,000 new requirements have arisen. This year we will introduce a practice to conclude for the 2016 budget by 31 December this year a list of people who will seek subsidies for so-called. plant production, and for the 2017 budget to be 30 September, that next year when we start preparing the budget, we already know what number of people we count on in the dimensioning of subsidies. The special point will be that we will address this assembly with a programme of changing the concept of subsidies in agriculture, which will be developed-oriented to raise productivity in agriculture, oriented not to support the extensive agricultural production that is de facto social, but to raise the production that can give a newly created value per employee, which will be 10 times higher than what we have today in the production of extensive agricultural cultures. It is Serbia's future, not in grain and corn production with 100 euros in subsidies per hectare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40903	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40904	Dear MP, thank you for supporting the budget that is in front of you today. You're absolutely right, the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure this year has a much bigger budget than the previous one, with 21 billion as much as it was for 2015, we're going to be facing you today with 32 billion dinars of the budget, which is very clearly defined and most certainly for capital investments, or infrastructure projects that are of great importance and directly affecting our country's economic growth, GDP. We have and I would say, good indicators from 2015, construction has affected GDP growth by 0.8% in 2015. The total share of construction in GDP increased from 3.6% to 4.2%, so it was working and working and building. You mentioned travel infrastructure, one section refers to Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. Corridor 10 is really running fast, we have cut off all credits and next year 2016, we will open and not only open but end 90.7 kilometers of highway on Corridor 10. Of course, in Corridor 11, the Ljig-Preljina section will be open and will be able to drive that route much faster than the plan. The plan was in August 2016, and according to the current dynamics of the performance of the works it will be between May and June of the month. A lot has been discussed in China about continuing to build Corridor 11 among other things, Corridor 11 entered the European corridor network. So we decided next to Corridor 10, Corridor 11 is something that is the government's priority. We haven't yet defined ourselves as the exact and clear model of funding. What we have as information, which is what we analyze, is what's best for the state. The question is whether the concession will be a choice, but we'll definitely do it. Surcin-Obrenovac, we are having talks and negotiations to start building in 2017, as well as a bypass around Belgrade. What I think is also important, you mentioned one problem that in the beginning is a problem, but it won't be a problem anymore, and that's a matter of rehabilitation 1,100km of times, related to a loan that we have just defended and approved here, a World Bank credit and the IBRD and Serbia state of 400 million. It's the first time we've ever done this model construction project. Normally, when something is for the first time, certain problems with project houses can happen, i.e. the number of project houses that can come into contact with such demanding things, but I have to tell you that contracts and contracts have been made with domestic companies for 60 km of time, and that next year it will be rehabilitated 190 kilometers of time, exactly on this principle of the construction project. We're not about to go back to special design, especially construction, we think this is much more efficient, but it just took us a time to spy on ourselves, and there we had great help and the World Bank itself. It's already finished part of the road eight and a half kilometers of Arangelovac-Krčevac which next week, with all the stops, with an expansion of the road, is, say, the first contract that has already been completed. I would like to mention one more thing in particular, and that is that, in addition to our insistence and our efforts to cancel all the loans, we worked very hard in 2015, which we will do in 2016, to include domestic companies, that domestic companies participate more in public calls, tenders, join together and be the main performers. We can boast that on Corridor 10, on the part of the Serbian House – Levosoje we have a group of consortium of domestic performers. We can also praise the new infrastructure project by building the Bratunac Bridge – Ljubovija, where domestic performers are again the main performers. So that's one way that we can help raise our economy. And here I am for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40905	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a minister, Dr Srdjan Verbic. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40906	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, Mr Jovanovic, thank you for asking about the project of modernization of schools which is certainly a priority for us and where we are very aware of how much time has been lost on tenders that have not been implemented at the opening of construction sites that have not started in time, but I think we are coming and that, in the last week alone, we have nine new sites, and this is STZ Marković at Vračar, Blusic, Prevešt, Kaludris, Sljivici, Bobovište, Rutovac, Soko Banja, Vladič's Han. So this week we've managed to run so many new construction sites. You're right, we have either a lack of understanding or a lack of synchronicity with local self-government, and you'll admit that the Ministry of Education can't quite get involved in tenders. In most cases, for these 51 schools that we are finishing this year, we did not have a security coordinator appointed by local self-government, but I hope we will fix those mistakes for the next tender, because in December we are planning a tender for the new 80 schools. So schools were already selected on a previous public call, 160 schools we plan to do next year. The first tender takes place in December of the month, and in March we expect a tender for the remaining 80 schools, so I hope that the lessons we will learn in these tenders will be very useful for the tenders that we will implement from some other funds in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40907	I thank Mr. Vebric. The word has been given by MP Zoltan Peck, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40908	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to speak of the three laws that are before us. A few words about the Budget System Act. Only a few important changes in what is written in this law and should be pointed out, and Mr. Minister pointed out this as a partial increase in public sector wages, ranging from 2% to 4% depending on which part of the public sector is concerned and on the increase in pensions of 1.25%. I don't want to tell if that's enough or not. Time will tell. The situation we're in, the country where it's in, I think it's real for now. It should still be pointed out here that this temporary employment measure has been extended by the end of the year. So, by the end of 2016, and this is one important element and most importantly, the funds of the current budget reserve are from 2% to 2.5% increased. Mr. Minister said on the board why, in order to make more differences, it would be no different than simply when unplanned or transferring the plan to transfer or exploit the money. As far as the most important law, the 2016 Budget System Act is concerned, we see here that, according to the Bill of Law, our deficit is planned for 121 billion dinars. It should be pointed out that during this year we had a permanent deficit reduction, and because of two, I think the most important measures affecting the country's deficit. One is so-called. painful measures, reduction of wages and pensions, and the other is a better tax charge. If we're looking at this planned deficit, it's on a real level. We see the same from the budget, the bill that the Serbian government will be in charge of 662 billion dinars by year for the purpose of funding the budget deficit, the acquisition of financial assets and the payment of the principal loan. Here it should be pointed out that this is 45 billion dinars less than planned, which was in 2015. I thought it was necessary to highlight the guarantees the state gave for public enterprises. In this bill, the guarantee amounts to 44 billion dinars, or 360m euros. Here, it should be noted that these guarantees are less than 39 billion dinars compared to 2015. This is about three public enterprises, "Electroprivreda", "Electro Network of Serbia", "Serbia". As we know last year we made one decision that we would not give guarantees to companies, public companies to cover losses, and this is seen in the 2015 budget that has not been given, but unfortunately the old guarantees have been activated in the amount of 32 billion dinars, as we have seen in the difference, if I have well written down, current expenditures and... So 32 billion dinars are our obligations to pay. This means that these expenditures are still high, but the trend of these expenditures has been halted, which means that state guarantees instead of 82 billion dinars, which was in the 2015 budget, have been reduced to 44 billion dinars. As we can see, the planned revenues are at a level of 997 billion dinars, of which 830 billion are tax revenues. These revenues, we think, are realistically projected. From these revenues, we see that the biggest revenues, the increase in the biggest revenues, is in excise revenues, which is planned at 254 billion dinars, and of which 38 billion dinars are higher than revenues, than these revenues in 2015. As for expenditure, expenditure is planned in 1.119 billion dinars. This was about subsidies. As we can see, subsidies almost remained at the same level as in 2015 and a colleague pointed out subsidies for agriculture. As Mr. Minister said these subsidies were not increased but remained to 28 billion dinars, but it should be noted that this year the planned subsidies were too little, too little funding. That's the eye, if true, about eight billion dinars, which we've exceeded in these expenditures. The biggest expenditure, which keeps growing, is interest expenditure. As we can see, 140 billion is expenditure on interest, and that's the third or fourth largest expenditure in our budget. Unfortunately, these expenditures are getting bigger and bigger, if we look back a few years. For example, in 2012, these expenditures were 59 billion dinars, and now 90 billion dinars are bigger than in 2012. As far as AP Vojvodina's assets are concerned, the planned transfer of funds is 35.4 billion dinars, while funds for investment in AP territory are 15 billion dinars. Here I have to highlight one project that is important to us that is being put into projects that are being carried out in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, that is the "ipislon Leg", we call it the "ipislon Leg" at Subotica. The amount for this project is 197 million dinars. I should point out here that on July 2nd, Mr. Prime Minister made a promise to Mr. Balint Pastor that this project would be put into the 2016 budget. As we can see, the promise has been made and it has been fulfilled. Thank you for that. It is important that this project is in the budget, because it has not been put into the budget for years. These 197 million dinars should be valued because we know the economic situation of the entire country. Also, I thought I'd highlight two rail-related projects, and it's the same in projects carried out in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We're grateful for that, too. It is a billion and 100 million dinars for the Hungarian-Serbian railways and a billion dinars allocated for the expropriation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway. With this program, I think we're going to lay one cornerstone to the economic development of our country's north. Because if we look at the surrounding countries where infrastructure investment in railways or roads started, that's where the economic growth of the region began. From the budget itself, we see that no increase in the transfer of municipalities and cities has been planned, left at 33 billion dinars. I should point out that the SVM parliamentary group has submitted one amendment, which we have filed for further reconstruction of the National Theatre building in Subotica. The funds are worth 35 million dinars. The project was concluded in 2006 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Executive Council of the AP and the City of Subotica itself. As far as the distribution of funds is concerned, 45% took the obligation of the Republic, 45% of the AP, and 10% of the City of Subotic. I should like to point out that from 2006 to 2008, the Republic of Serbia was carrying part of the cost of the reconstruction, amounting to 229 million dinars from the National Investment Plan. Unfortunately, from 2009 to 2014 or already in 2015, we gave or were given money, and this contractual obligation was not respected by the state itself. But since we've submitted an amendment that essentially doesn't change resources, we've just given it up in that sense to continue co-financing of this project. So, the project of reconstruction of the National Theatre in Subotica. As far as the third law itself is concerned, it is the Law on Incentives in Agriculture in Rural Development. We have handed over five amendments for this law. One of the amendments submitted refers to the requirements submitted by agricultural holdings which exercise the right to this incentive and refer to incomplete requirements. We think it's simple to reject some demands, but we should give the possibility for these incomplete demands to be complemented. It means that we give the possibility of supplementing this requirement to be asked again by these agricultural producers. We have given two amendments to the size of the incentive, in the case of plant production incentives, which are intended to delete the words "minimum amount of 6,000 dinars per hectare" and are replaced by the words "up to 6,000 dinars per hectare". So, when it comes to regresses for fuel and artificial fertilizer, the bill says -- up to 6,000 dinars per hectare, instead of – the minimum total amount of 6,000 dinars per hectare, as it has been so far. With our amendments, we're asking for a minimum amount of 4,000 dinars for these incentives, because we think if it's up to 6,000 dinars, it can mean I can get a boost and 100 dinars per hectare. So it's not strictly indicated how many dinars it is. That's why we thought about setting one minimum limit to these incentives. Mr. Secretary said we'll have a special law next year on these incentives. I think we should also watch these small holdings that there are a lot of them, especially in the north of Vojvodina, and they won't be able to make big investments or permanent investments in their holdings. So they have to get some money so they can just live. The fourth amendment is given to us on the date of the exercise of the right to incentives relating to plant production, data taken from the register. That's where we asked for this information to be March 31st, 2016. We think it's more relevant information. The fifth amendment is one such amendment as we rarely give, and it is about erasing one member of the bill. As I said, our parliamentary group rarely gives such amendments. But it should be pointed out here that a struggle has been fought over the essence of this amendment for many years. It is in the jurisdiction of the authorities of autonomous provinces and bodies of self-government units. With this amendment, we want to retain the current autonomy of establishing support measures for the implementation of the agricultural policy and rural development policy of the AP and local self-government units, as is now in force in the law. So we think we should leave the competent authorities of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government to continue to lay down farmers if they have the option. These money from which some funds help farmers, it's the money they get from renting agricultural land. So that's their own income, then why can't we let these revenues give, if they can already help farmers. We hope you will accept these amendments and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40909	Thank you, Mr. Peck. The word has been issued by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, an authorised MP for the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40910	Dear members of the government, the Honored Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SPI, I will present my views on the planned budget for 2016. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to stress that our Parliament Club in voting day will support the proposed text of the budget law. At a time of dramatic geopolitical events, Serbia was at a crossroads between the East and the West. It may be too much to mention, but it is not a waste, precisely because of the division of our society, that the SPO is most strongly favouring Serbia's path to the EU. That is why we are very important in the government's strategic determination to continue reforms that are also a condition for EU membership, but which are also the need to address the consequences of the past, caused by the devastating 1990s and irresponsible relationship towards the DOS country and its successor parties. Our political position and the position of the member states, particularly the strongest European countries, when it comes to reforms, are best witnessed by the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, David McAllister, calling on the European Council and the European Commission to open chapters 32 and 35 in negotiations with Serbia by the end of this year. Chapters 23 and 24 could be opened early next year. The McAllister also welcomes and has done the promotion of the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit, the adoption of a new Labour Law. The rapporteur praised the implementation of the Brussels deal. Serbia's relationship to the migrant crisis has also been praised. To continue reforms, the budget should be adopted for next year, which is planned in accordance with IMF requirements and with the needs of the country itself. The planned expenditures, according to expert estimates, are about the same as this year. The planned budget fulfils the basic task of the fiscal strategy, so the continuation of the fiscal consolidation process through the retention of certain measures introduced in the previous period, with selective and measured discounts with restrictions on pensions and wages in the public sector. The main objective of fiscal consolidation in the medium term is to reduce deficits and halt public debt growth. The fiscal measures introduced earlier for fiscal consolidation resulted in 2015. Given that the deficit that will be achieved by the end of next year will be at a lower level than was agreed with the IMF, a lower deficit in 2015 is the result not only of savings made on the bulky side but also of improved revenue collection, which is an open space for better payment to continue in 2016. Successfully implemented fiscal policy measures and improved conditions of the business and investment environment during 2015 have enabled the creation of a basis for stable and sustainable GDP growth in the coming years. It is necessary to say again that the budget costs for 2016 are planned at the level of expenditure of 2015, keeping fiscal space, provided with a better result than planned in 2015. This shows that reform measures and rationalisation in the public sector are aimed at reducing public finances and public debt deficits. The Serbian Renewal Movement knows that certain economic measures and certain political steps are unpopular, but advocates them because at the same time they are in the interest of the state and in the interest of even those citizens who do not support them. That is why the EU's firm commitment to the prime minister has the full support of the SPO. So again, the SPO will vote for the adoption of the proposed budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40911	Thank you, Mr. Jugovic. The word is by MP Djordje Stojsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to ask, of course, the President is not here, but I have heard that he was also invited to the meeting and mayor of Belgrade, so I am interested - is this a practice or is there some reason why he is not invited, say, the New Sad or representatives of the province's administration, such as the Prime Minister or the President of the Assembly? As for the laws that are before us today, I think we can all agree that the merger of agricultural points, the Constitutional Court, the excises, the budget and the budgetary system have nothing to do with each other. We do not see why such a thing has been done, although the Budget Law, which is farthest important, is once again going through an emergency procedure without any public debate and there was absolutely no need for such a thing, even though we learned from the funds of public information, as well as from Mr. Minister that there was some pressure from the IMF to adopt the budget as soon as possible. Of course, citizens vote for us sitting in this Assembly and that Assembly is choosing the government, not the IMF, so I certainly think that every budget should go to public debate, which has not been the case so far. When we talk about the Republic of Serbia's budget and fiscal policy, I would like to make an impression on the name of a film that sublimes our fiscal policy, not only of this government, but also of many previous, film called "The Beauty of Vice", and I will explain why. Namely, if Serbian citizens stopped drinking alcohol, smoking, driving cars on fossil fuels and respecting traffic regulations, the Republic of Serbia's budget would fail, or the state would go bankrupt. If they started buying products produced in our country, not buying these imports, it would be around 50% of the budget, given the amount of VAT and excise duties collected and the percentage financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. Is this budget sustainable? We don't think so. When we compare 2015 and 2016, we will see that all the tendencies within the budget are actually negative. What concerns us is the relationship to the AP Vojvodina, that is, further centralisation, the relationship to agriculture, and in terms of the Budget Law and in terms of the Encouraging Act, the relationship to local self-governments, which will again bear the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation and premise that in local self-government there is some ignorance and corruption, and that there is a large surplus of employees, and in the republican authorities and in all institutions that are in Belgrade there is everything and there is even a lack of employees. Of course, the budget, as an instrument of economic policy, is all the points on which we can make observations. What is most important to us from the League of Social Democrats of the Vojvodina is exactly the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the lack of law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which we have talked about so many times. Every year we return to the same thing and to the famous 7% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, if applied to total revenues of the budget, would be 69.8 billion dinars, while by amending the 2013 Budgetary System Act, this base is changed and the percentage is only about tax revenues, meaning 829 billion dinars, of which 7% is 58 billion and this is a reduction for the province's budget of 11.8 billion dinars. According to announcements from the Regional Secretariat, the AP Vojvodina budget this year will be around 40 billion. Of course, the province cannot adopt its budget every year, it must wait for the adoption of the Republic budget to know what budget it can even formulate. This is due to decades of negative policy, since Slobodan Milosevic abolished both autonomy and original income. Many things in this country have been reformed, except that each government towards Vojvodina has an absolutely identical attitude when we talk about funding. Since the estimated amount of the province's 2016 budget, the largest share, i.e. 27.8 billion dinars, refers to transfers that only go through the province's budget and the province is not available with it, so that only the rest of the funds, or around 12 billion dinars, the province will be able to influence them in the sense that it can deploy them with its budget. Also, according to the Constitution, three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget should be directed towards capital investments, which means that it should be 30 billion dinars if the AP Vojvodina budget is 7% of the total revenues of the republican budget of 997 billion dinars. This means that from the expected rural budget of 40 billion dinars, 30 billion should focus on capital investments, but this is impossible, of course, since of these 40 billion 27.8 is already in transfer revenue and the province is not available with them. With those 12, practically all 12 would have to spend on capital investments. When we talk about capital investments, there are a number of infrastructure projects in Vojvodina that are promised and mentioned each time before the elections. I would just remind myself of a famous tunnel through Fruska Gora, a banana highway, to the fact that there are more than 100 places in Vojvodina that don't even have sewers, and many don't even have water. For example, with me in the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, we have repeatedly asked a question, banally, about shares of five kilometers through the town of Lacerak, which is under the authority of the "Road of Serbia" etc., etc. At one point, the pathways of the second row were transferred to finance from the province's budget, but that was also impossible because the funds were never transferred. Around 7.7 billion dinars are being transferred to local self-government units in the AP Vojvodina territory, with these funds being paid directly to municipalities and not passing through the province's budget. Around 10 billion dinars are dedicated transfers from the republican budget to finance investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia. An amount of 5.3 billion dinars is planned to subsidise agriculture in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These funds do not go through the province's budget, but are directly paid out of the customer's resolution ministries. Therefore, the total transfers from the republic's budget amount to 50.5 billion dinars, 27.8 billion of which go through the province's budget, and the rest of 22 billion are paid directly to municipalities, i.e. direct users. The amount of around 12 billion dinars available to the province's budget is part of the income paid in the part of 18% of the income tax and 42.7% of the company's profits tax, achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as well as certain taxes and fees paid directly by the province and which constitute the revenue of the AP budget. Given that employee earnings have been reduced, as well as the profitability of the economy has been reduced, as we see when we analyse the 2015 and 2016 budget, the profit tax based on what goes into the APV budget is also decreasing. In doing so, the criteria for determining the part of the profit tax that is due to the province's budget are exclusively linked to the seat of the debtors, not the business interest, which means that all larger enterprises that are based in Belgrade, such as banks, insurance companies, large agricultural concerts, etc., pay taxes as large bonds in New Belgrade, rather than on the territory of Vojvodina. For all of these reasons that we state here, we have appealed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it is necessary to pass the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina as soon as possible and to ensure a stable system by adopting this law, a clean account policy would be introduced in state and regional finance and would not be put into a situation that from the government to the government, practically, and the mercy of someone sitting in it, it is decided whether or not the province's administration will be financed. In our proposal, the new fiscal decentralisation system also planned the formation of a province tax administration, i.e. the income administration. Once, if you remember, all municipalities had their own income administrations, so those surpluses or aloctions directed towards the province, i.e. to the Republic, and it was a system that was known in many developed European countries, which, of course, we, in the 1970s and 1980s, prescribed, but with Milosevic's coming to power abolished and here, to this day and today, we have a situation for the Republic Ministry to be deployed to municipalities and some small provinces, of course, mainly for political merits and not for clear criteria. The famous 7% of the budget is defined by the Constitution, but the real question is actually how much does Vojvodina contribute to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and how much does it contribute to the gross social product? The analyses we have at our disposal say it's somewhere between 35% and 45% in both cases, depending on the year-to-year, since agriculture makes up a large part of the gross social product, as well as revenue for the budget. We hope there will be a moment when we can discuss the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and we will present some concrete proposals on what could be entered into that law and so that the province can be financed, just so we don't bring ourselves into this situation. Of course, we insisted that one of the main revenues could also be an increase in the mining rent and participation in the capital of some large systems, etc. What is not good is that in the European Parliament, when it is now said about opening a chapter for Serbia, it is also mentioned that one of the issues that must be addressed is the issue of funding Vojvodina and that it is debated by MEPs in the European Parliament, and we cannot rightly discuss us here in our parliament and I think it is extremely bad that this issue is being opened outside our country's borders. When you look at the budget, you will see that the Office for Kosovo and Metohija has a budget of five billion dinars, the AP Vojvodina budget remains 12 billion. I will remind myself that 60,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia are financed there, with two million and 100,000 in Vojvodina. Does this mean that a Serbian citizen living in Vojvodina is 15 times less valuable than the one living in Kosovo? In the end, it is extremely bad that conflicts between the political, or party conflicts of the republic and the province administration, i.e. the parties headed by the two governments, eventually break on the backs of farmers and ordinary citizens. The budget cuts, in this way, I don't think it'll do anybody any good. As regards subsidies in favour of agriculture, the draft budget provides for subsidies totalling 86 billion dinars, 80 billion dinars in 2015, which means an increase of 5.4 billion dinar subsidies is planned. In the structure of subsidies, subsidies for agriculture are reduced to 32.5 billion from 34 in 2015. Of which, for agricultural subsidies in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, an amount of 5.3 billion dinars is foreseen. This retains subsidies, of course, for loss-making companies that do not have a real perspective, while at the same time reducing subsidies in agriculture. The biggest winner of this budget is "The Railways of Serbia", I do not say unjustly, but that reduces subsidies to farmers. It is constantly pointed out that agriculture is some kind of locomotive development and our great chance, but whether bringing foreign investors is the only solution where our couples will be superiors on their own country or we will look up to Holland or Italy, which has a similar size of average property, but has a far more intense culture. With 3,000 dinar subsidies per hectare, it will certainly not happen and we are really calling on the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture to look back at the amount of subsidies that will be allocated and withdrawing this proposal, because the amount of 3,000 dinars is absolutely inadequate. I would add that when we look at the budget as an instrument of economic policy, we can mention that what is lacking in our economy is actually growth and we don't see how this is the development budget, given the cuts in expenditure. We understand that our position towards foreign lenders and foreign financial institutions is very limited, but really if we don't have economic growth we're going to enter into a spiral that is hard to get out of, and it's seen that when you have faster public debt growth than the growth of gross domestic product, you can hardly get out of it. The level of public debt, of course, is always seen in relation to the growth of gross domestic product. It is not good to finance political projects and so the state decides how it will affect the spending side. We have seen that the state will convert its claims to Simpo. I don't know what's going on with that company. We know that there are a lot of people working there and that this problem has to be solved, but it would be good if many companies in our country that have major obligations to the state were also able to convert their claims into capital and consolidate, or make such decisions solely on the basis of some political criteria, and in line with who runs these companies. Last thing, we will, of course, appeal to the Constitutional Court about how the AP Vojvodina is treated about this budget and it would be good to see whether the Constitutional Court will react as quickly as it did when it abolished the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, since we see that the arches are not the same, but in any case we will file a complaint. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has submitted several amendments. We hope you'll consider them. Our biggest remark is about, I repeat, financing the AP Vojvodina and agricultural expenditure. I would ask you to take our amendments carefully into consideration. If that doesn't happen, of course, we're in no position to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40913	I thank Mr Stojsic and I think it is clear that the mayor of Belgrade has been invited to amend the "Belgrade on Water" Act. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40914	I'd like to thank you for your detailed exposure. I will try briefly to respond to the facts and deepen, or add some activity plan in the future. So, first of all, the percentage. We fully agree in most of the figures that you have listed, we fully agree, so what changed last year and this year, means, in that part where Vojvodina achieves its revenues, there is absolutely no difference in estimates, and there is everything in that part for the first ten elements, taxes and other incomes, incomes of the Development Fund, which have no transactions, transfers for education, transfers of the Ministry of Encouragement, transfers for local self-government, inspection supervision, preparatory and pre-school institutions, transfers of the Commissioner for Refugees, transfers to the Offices of Sustainable Development, transfers of the Ministry of Culture and Information and transfers of the Ministry of Industry, together make up 53 billion 963 million, and in 2015 estimated 52 billion 969 million. The difference is one billion. In the percentage of tax revenues, that's 7.06 last year, 6.39 this year. However, besides these transfers, there are other transfers that are carried out directly or indirectly through bodies that operate in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These are the border crossings of new customs administrations, these are the execution of criminal sanctions, the construction of a new prison in Panchev, these are projects of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, these are projects of the Ministry of Justice, investments under the Law on Regional Development of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Ministry of Finance, funds for the expropriation of the country on the Belgrade-Budapest track, funds for subsidies in agriculture 5.3 billion. That's exactly what you said. That's the same number. All of these transfers together are 15 billion 047 million, which together gives 68.017, or 8.2% of the tax revenues you listed. I can only agree that this is just part of the story. So, this formal request is fulfilled, but it's essentially not, and that's what we were talking about six months ago about we're going to consider all the elements of so-called income distribution and jurisdiction obligations. For each level of government, there should be some balance between established own and admitted sources of income, including transfers and competences. That's what the Duke's funding law needs to be done. The assumption of the law is the adoption of a law on the financing of local self-government, since Vojvodina as well as the rest of Serbia is based on cities and local self-government, then on the AP level. Three days ago, we put that bill on the Ministry's website. We have left up to three weeks per law, and in fact longer and I ask you to actively engage in this debate and look exactly at it, because this law provides for an important change and a system of local self-government transfer locations and a system of motivation to collect income. So we want to introduce stimulating elements, make local self-government cut-offs and collect its own income more active and thus gain greater participation in transfers. Look at the law, there's plenty of time. There's nothing fixed here, everything can be arranged. We've been doing the whole Empirical simulation work and I'm asking you to get involved. The second law is a law on fees that will also define a significant part of the revenue made in each territory, including the AP Vojvodina. When those two laws, and the other one will go a month after this, then we'll have a basis to know exactly your position and to talk about what the parameters of defining the Law on the financing of Vojvodina are. I'm willing to discuss this dynamic in detail, and in order for it to be neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles, all of those elements that you're talking about, but it also has to be a second element, which is that those who have more in the country like Serbia and in every other country, actually have to be the source of all these transfers that balance the level because of the differences in development, because of the needs and everything else. So I think we agree on the principle. Let's take a look here, I answered this just to let it know that the formal requirements are met, but that just means for me that we've achieved the first step, which is that we can talk about all the other things. That's it for now. Therefore, my proposal is to continue with this dynamic, to engage in the definition of the Law on the financing of local self-government, after which the law on fees where even more radical changes are proposed, and then, based on those two laws, we know exactly what the position is and whether to move forward in the talks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40915	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given by MP Dragan Sutanovac, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40916	Thank you. Mr. Finance Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I would like to say at the very beginning that we had little time to analyze the 2016 budget. Five days is little time for serious structural analysis, but it is quite enough to mathematically determine that this budget is not bad. The budget is probably the worst that has entered Serbia's parliament in the last two decades. I would say that it is disastrous and this budget announces what is most important, further poverty among Serbian citizens, announces further structural problems in the health system, an even worse situation in agriculture, or agrarian, even worse state in the Ministry of Defence, as well as the catastrophic state of employment. We've never thrown anyone away before, I don't see what I'd like. Mr. Minister, given that the budget is a wish list, I have to tell you that your income wishes are unrealistic, and your spending wishes are politicized and very bad, and I'm going to document this to you one by one, I'm sure you'll agree, as you agreed, because I'm going to read only these figures here. First of all, what I have to resent and explain to us, how is it possible to announce the layoff between 15 and 30,000 citizens working in the public sector, and at the same time in the budget, you predicted an increase in salary expenditure? So we're going to spend more money on public sector salaries, and we're firing 30,000 people, including people who work specifically in health care. On the other hand, to explain to us, as possible, which I asked you last time that there was a hidden item in this budget, this is the item of "contract service" that amounts to over 15 billion dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the order of 10.5m euros a month, or more than 30,000 salaries of some people working in the country under a work contract. I told you that these figures are big, that they can take off these work contracts and transfer to health care, that no one from health care is fired, or that they are transferred as a subsidy to agriculture, which we say is one of the most important, if not the most important business branch in Serbia. In order to be specific, and very specific, I will tell you the right for DS is completely unacceptable to reduce the transfer for health care. We believe that health care is in a catastrophic bad state, that it is not enough for healthcare to only equip new wallpapers, as announced by the prime minister, and to turn hospitals, health care is something much more serious than that, and if you reduce health care isolation you are jeopardising the health of all Serbian citizens and it is totally unacceptable for us. Also, your expenditure plan provides for nine billion and 500 million to be allocated to the National Employment Service with 16 billion in 2015. So almost 6.5 billion less. We're full of mouths talking about how people should be hired. You just said, in my opinion, that the number of employees has increased, because according to the NBS bulletin, the statistical bulletin officially stands on the NBS site, we have a fall in employees all the time. So in 2012, a million and 732 citizens in Serbia were employed, in July of this year a million and 712 thousand people employed. So, agree in the Government whether these are relevant data, for us they are, because I do not accept that the politicized data coming to parliament is relevant. This is something we think is only relevant. Also, I have to say that for us, an unacceptable enormous increase in subsidies for the Railways is unacceptable. You predicted a new six billion dinars from 11 to 17 for the Railways. If we know the Railway is a big loser, then compared to last year's rebalancing last year, it's totally unacceptable for us and we think it's a sum that has to be dramatically smaller. Costs based on the use of services and goods, I've already said that. So it is also not true that it is not less allocated to social protection from the budget. We were listening on TV yesterday as Minister Vulin said there was never a bigger one. I'll tell you the numbers. From 31 billion to 507 million to 29 billion 940 million. So, all that's holding the citizens back, all that's the most serious structural problem in Serbia will have reduced transfers, stressing a special security system, a defence system. So you're firing people, you've increased your wages slightly, and at the same time you're giving a smaller budget. What does that mean? Let me translate. It means that for investment and equipment in defense and police, there will be a shortage, and there will be a deficit. There won't be enough money. We view all of this as a list of good wishes, even so badly designed, it might be good if it were realized. However, this cannot be realised because the revenues you set as budget revenues simply interests me how could you project like this? Let's just say, one banal question, how can you project that, compared to six billion donations from last year, it's going to be 11.5 billion? So I don't know who in Serbia can predict that five billion will appear more in donations and do you have any announcement that these donations will be? What is sad, is that income based on corporate income tax, so legal persons are companies, businesses operating in Serbia, will be reduced by 14% according to your projection. What does that mean? It means that economic activity in Serbia will be reduced. These are exact data. I'm not speaking descriptively, literaryly, I'm telling you, technically, engineering, this is the data you gave. Also, value added tax in the country, income from value added tax in the country is decreasing, which suggests that there is a structural problem of the Serbian economy and that we will not have income based on VAT in the country, while at the same time you are designing an increase in customs revenue and an increase in VAT revenues from imports. What does that mean? It means that Serbia will be dramatically more imported than in the past year. When I say more dramatically, from 292 billion to 333 billion VAT from abroad and customs from 29 billion to 35 billion. Mr. Minister, what is Serbia going to import in that amount of money next year, and how do you think, you said a little before, that we will reduce the external trade deficit, with which product will we appear in Serbia and this product appears on the international market, which will cancel this story to reduce the external trade deficit? So the story you're just saying doesn't stand. What's even more tragic is that you're relying on the home budget again. You've leaned back on the enemy, on citizens who have reduced pensions, reduced salaries. Three dinar pensions are increased a day, I appreciate that. But, again, they need to get out of trouble your budget, which is unacceptable for us. Unless the economy in Serbia works, and the economy does not work for what reason, because there are no foreign investments. And why aren't they here? Because we're not stable company. We're a society where things happen over the course of one year. I'll remind you we only had a coup seven days ago. Who invests in a country where there's a coup? Now, in order to replace the fact that we don't have business activities, that we don't have foreign investments, you've decided to increase excise duties. Well, it's a little bit that you've increased electricity excises, now we're increasing excises and oil derivatives, to alcohol, which I don't mind, to tobacco, and then we're actually going to lean on those, how much was the pension increase? Well, 1.25%, but we'll take 10% of them through oil excises. So this is a list of bad desires, which even this bad can't be realized. I'm interested, too, in here you honestly admitted, I suppose, that our public enterprises are completely devastated. Last year they were just telling you -- don't take all the profits to public enterprises, don't fictitiously fill the budget that way, you'll devastate the companies next year, because they won't have the funds to invest to start next year. What's going on? Part of the profits of public enterprises and budget dividends for next year from 15.3 billion in 2015 are projected at 8 billion, almost double. So, the public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia will have a profit that is double the profit of 2015. What's the reason? Well, the reason is bad economic policy, the reason is bad economic policy, is because last year you decided to devastate those companies. For what? For the sake of a minor deficit, because your deficit is obviously more important to you than even the citizens living in this country. The whole policy being implemented, which is the policy of "operation succeeded and the patient died", simply cannot get support from DS MPs, and I believe other MPs who are here today in parliament. What is also tragically, income from real-person income tax, or VAT, to remind you, in 2011, income from profit tax was higher than your projected in 2015 by about 12%. I remind you, too, that then the tax was 18%, and now it's 20%. Also, corporate income, it was also 10%, and now it's 15%, and your projection is that budget revenue is going to be lower. So, Mr. Minister, I understand your desire to show us in one general trend that in Serbia, thanks to the budget, they will live better, but the figures do not contribute. The numbers speak exactly the opposite. In Serbia, what has to happen doesn't happen. Serbia does not assume that economic activity is the one that needs to fill the budget, not excises, customs, not spending in a way that people dig through new oil excises, new excises on alcoholic beverages. We've introduced this year's electricity excise, cut salaries, cut pensions, and we still don't have enough in the budget the way you design it. The Democratic Party considers this to be a very bad budget, without any desire to be personal. I really think you, Mr. Minister, can do a lot better. If I tell you that you have 15 billion dinars available only on the basis of a work contract, I'm sure there may be a few people in your office who do so. Ask yourself who 30,000 people are, who are 30,000 people who are monthly, maybe even 35,000, if the average salary is minimal, but I don't believe that these bots that work, work for the average salary, who are these people? Which is why you didn't ask for a way to cut costs, but to cut costs in economics, agriculture, health care, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Defense? Where it hurts the citizens the most, that's where you reduce the most. It's unacceptable for us, and we certainly won't support it. If you'll excuse me, this is where the subject of the government's expenditure on travel was often opened. Do you know what the cost of this government's travel expenses is? No more than five billion dinars. I have an understanding for the MAP, for the Department of Defense. For what? Because their activities in the land zone are being conducted as trips, but I have no understanding when it is said that the Kosovo Office will spend 8,000 euros a month. How many liters of fuel is that? I don't suppose they travel on planes to Kosovo. How many miles is that money? Do you want me to read on? Air Force 15 million, courts, I don't want to talk. Well, 41 million are courts, if you ask. At the same time, the courts are two billion 382 thousands based on a contract of action. I really don't know. Mr. Risticevic, don't throw it away, there's no reason. I'm talking about a cut in the budget for agriculture as well. I believe you'll have an understanding of this matter if you don't already understand these other things. Mr. Minister, this budget you've proposed needs to be rebalanced today. This budget you proposed is worse than last year's budget. This budget that you have proposed will in no way establish a better, healthier, safer, safer life for Serbian citizens. I'm asking you to reconsider. I know that you have a majority, that you can vote that the country is a quarter, that they wear elephants on their backs, you can vote whatever it is, but one day you'll have to sit with yourself and say, wait, how could I plan this, because this is a de facto one death certificate for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40917	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40918	I once again admire how you manage to put so many controversial things into an almost uninterrupted sentence that only make sense in your need to be critical. Now I'm going to answer you in order. The dilemmas that concern you – how is it possible to improve trade balance at the same time and the VAT goes down? First, VAT doesn't fall. What's called domestic net VAT is dropping, and domestic net VAT is domestic gross VAT minus vomitings that are 90% and exports. So put those numbers together. Exports are growing, vomiting is growing. The so-called net domestic VAT drops from 114,1 in 2014 to 96, in this year to 87. It's a normal tendency when exports grow. If necessary, we'll hold a seminar, and we'll explain for those figures. They get published every day. Secondly, VAT from growing imports, but less than exports are growing, from 295.5 to 316, to 339. I don't want to lecture you, but ask first, then criticize. This is absolutely wrong. Second of all, as far as the evaluation goes, what's your concern? You're worried about 14 billion severances on your salary. Take down 14 billion at 411 and 412 positions, 14 billion severance payments are included, which are thus shown in the budget. When you subtract 14 billion from 235.8 billion from the salary fund, you'll get 221, which is 11 billion less than 232, which is more than 3% of the salary fund reduction. Get that thing back together, and you'll get it. Nobody lies here. All the numbers are out. The fact that we announce that there will be fewer incomes conservatively on the profit of legal persons will not be smaller than it will be at least this year, from 57 to 58.3. Income per citizen 44 per 45. Total VAT 409 to 412 to 427. Where do you see the fall? The social product is growing, consumption will begin to increase next year. I don't understand. Where did you get those numbers? That doesn't even stand. You've got this budget. This budget was discussed here in this House until 6 a.m. last December. You have all the numbers. Compare, too, like us. We have the same numbers you and I. This increase you call magic, it's just IPA funds here. You'll get an explanation for every number. There's documents behind each digit, there's work, there's everything. Six billion, that's six billion IPA funds, which we expect to activate next year. What else did you say from things you don't understand? So, expenses for the use of goods and services, the increase because we expect the cost to be increased. This year they had an extraordinary decrease because oil prices and all derivatives were lower. Therefore, we expect these things. As for your observations on how much we've taken, under the assumption of dividends, it's because we decided during the year that because of the effects on the budget we're going to go to a combination of excises and an increase in electricity prices. According to the old bill, we expected a bigger one, if there was an increase in electricity prices, the return to the budget was an old calculation, the new one was no need to return, because by means of excises, under the quote, the revenue in the budget is realised. So I don't know what number is confusing you, but everything here is extremely transparent and logical. Let me tell you, your language figure that the budget is not bad, but catastrophic, shows your need to consider it in the domain of some literature, not in the domain of a digit. This budget remains in the domain of 3% of the social product, the central government deficit, and within which we will cover all costs, one-off costs. It's called redefining the required number of employees at all levels of government. Yes, redefining the required number of employees. You didn't listen at first, so I repeat now. Based on horizontal and vertical functional analysis, we will determine all of which agencies, which have been made since 2000 to date, have the need to stay, which have spent their useful lives, have the need to disappear or be incorporated into ministries, find all pockets of inefficiency in all possible administrations, agencies, ministries and on this basis we do so. rationalization. Rationalisation is a term used long ago, and we need a term that will ensure that the state is effective, that it provides the same or better services at less cost, that Serbian citizens pay less for the same or better services, and that it is not a place where employment is protected in the country. That was done for years, and you, and this government, and every other government, hired people without any basis. You're right, there are too many employees, but it's a much worse structure. Forty per cent of state administration employees deal with administrative affairs or internal services, repairing elevators, instead of producing services for Serbian citizens. So I expect the so-called. rationalising or reviewing the structure of employees in all of these ministries, administrations and agencies produce such a structure that will be directed to Serbia's citizens to receive security and defence services, where you were minister, to education, health care and everything else. That's the goal. Don't pretend. The second question, very important, is that you are here inaugurating one thing that is obviously malicious. Now you have no basis for saying we won't achieve fiscal results, since we're making them come true. Now you say – where are the results? The results are already there, and they will be even bigger every step, every day, every month. If we were able to reverse from minus one to negative 0.5, to zero, to plus 0.5, to plus 0.75 growth of the social product in the conditions of the most difficult fiscal consolidation, then we will certainly continue next year where we plan an increase of only 0.25% and then we will certainly be able to achieve a balanced growth rate of over 3.5% that will lead us to convergence with Europe and all other countries with which we want to be comparable. As to whether citizens live better, citizens live better by living better by the fact that in the context of the crisis and all other shocks and difficulties we have managed to preserve this, to compensate at the level of aggregate demand for a complete drop in income in the public sector, it is fully compensated and to continue to grow. There's more to the investment than before. The complete deficit you call on is funded by quality, direct investment. So we have a situation where we don't owe ourselves to finance the external trade deficit. We have a situation where the deficit of the budget, and the fiscal deficit and the general government deficit, generates savings of 600, 700m euros, thus reducing the need for those borrowings that we otherwise designed when we were here with you in parliament last December. Remember, 191 billion, and we'll make 121 with all these old debts we didn't make, but we found them. Therefore, I ask you to respect the facts in your presentations and that there are problems in this budget. The problems are whether we will achieve these reforms in the public sector. The problem is, are we gonna make it through? The problems are whether we will be able to reorient subsidies to agriculture, to give us productivity growth, and not just the welfare of agriculture. The problem is whether we'll manage to do everything we've planned with public enterprises, with companies at the Privatisation Agency, etc. That's a lot of risks. That's a lot of resistance. People are losing their jobs and there are social interests, the short-term perception of social interests is not in line with the country's long-term intensity to heal this economy and finally get out of this road, through this chess transition. It's supposed to be the end once and for all. Please don't sow defetism that you should give up, since your message that you can without this is completely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40919	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40920	The Honorable Chairman, MPs, I must agree with you that health care is extremely important and extremely sensitive. I'm just sorry you didn't say the same thing and take care of your health earlier, but it doesn't matter. As for health layoffs, no doctor, no nurse, will be fired in health care. They are employed, hired every month and will continue to be employed. It's the citizens who need to know. In health care, we inherited 24% of the nonmedical staff. The normatives in Europe and the world are a maximum of 10% non-medical staff. I hope you agree that with so many nonmedical staff, we can't get to health care the way we need it and what we're trying to do. It's just impossible. Therefore, there is no dismissal of doctors and nurses. They're hiring, just nonmedical staff. It's 24%, and it's normal to be 10%. We need to make a basis, to break this practice, so that we can have more doctors, medical staff, that they have better working conditions and time to have higher salaries, because you agree to deserve higher wages. The second thing, about the budget, I don't know how you looked, the budget is 1.2 billion higher than the previous year. The strategy of this government is to save everything we get to invest in health care. Once again, I'm sorry you didn't. As far as I know, and you had the idea to buy a gamma knife...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40921	Cyber knife.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40922	Cyber knife. Okay. I'll tell you about the Cyber knife and why he didn't take the Cyber knife. You didn't take a Gamma knife, and you negotiated a Cyber knife. Let's not talk about prices, there were seven, 12 and the rest. It doesn't matter, that's what the manufacturers say. As for the Gamma knife, the budget is that we have so many patients for the Gamma knife that we can pay it in two, three, five years. By the number of patients for the Cyber knife, we wouldn't be able to pay for it for over 10 years. That's why we took the Gamma knife. We took that for a little over three million, cheapest in Europe and the world. So far, 54 patients have been on that Gamma knife. We have a list of waitings from abroad, and Monday, people from abroad will start going to it. From that budget of last year, which was smaller, we managed to get a Gamma knife, four radiation accelerators, you agree on how much the waiting list was inherited, and we set aside the money to turn all the homes of health and all the hospitals. Contracts are signed on Friday, and work is on Monday at all hospitals and all health homes. They haven't been down in a year, you know that's a long time ago. Therefore, I would ask you, if you have good intentions towards health care, health care is not a daily political issue, it is sensitive, extremely sensitive subject, we agree, you had a chance. There's no problem, but don't just, don't say, it's not the people we're supposed to confuse to scare him that, you know, doctors don't get fired, you don't fire medical staff. Let me remind you of what was done with dentists, what was done with all the other things in 2006 and the rest of what today, you know, and ourselves, we have a problem ending this story. Tell me, if there's a problem in health care, if you have while I'm here for an affair, anything, that we have some price that's been paid more than anywhere in Europe, that we don't move forward, that we don't move forward, that we do for what we invest, find in the region that someone less invests that there's more in health than we do here. Let the neighbouring country invest a thousand euros, we invest 260. For a thousand euros, they only have mandatory insurance. And if our citizens knew about 260 euros here, you have a set of free health insurance. There, that's the facts. I beg you once again, for healthcare there is no vanity, there is nothing, this is a common matter. Everything that's ruined in health care right now will take a long, long time to make it right. It's not because of us, it's because of our children, we don't have to leave it to them. Don't go into health care on a day-to-day political basis. There's no reason. Everything you've got smart, everything you've got has nothing to do with it. As long as we don't pass on panic and fear to the citizens. Well, I'd like to ask you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40923	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40924	I have to say, the M.O.P. managed to get new uniforms for all police officers. There'll be new uniforms next year. Next year we'll be able to get a piece of the patrol vehicle, same after a while. And thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, we have managed to launch a process of modernization and war techniques and equipment in the MUP, primarily armored vehicles used by members of the police in the land area of security, where in collaboration with the SDPR we will be able to make a significant, significant shift. Also, thanks to good planning, savings and everything we have achieved, we will end the payment of two billion dinars by the end of the year, 520 million are already paid, two billion dinars to all ministry members who owe travel expenses back several years and on January 1, 2016, the MUP will not owe anyone a single penny, which is the first time after many years that we have managed to bring our balance to zero. Absolutely committed by following the government's course, since it's easy to say – come on, it's easy to say – we need to recognize the moment when, everyone is denied that the ministry has to do it, but not at the expense of the Serbian citizens, because we have managed to achieve results both in reducing the overall criminality and in drug confiscation and in everything that is important for the ministry and for the citizens, we have managed to produce results that are better and that we have reduced the nominal budget for 2016 by 2.2 billion dinars. As for my colleague, since I want to say a few sentences as to the Ministry of Defence, it is planned in the next year for more capital investment money than it was in the previous year, for 800 million dinars more and I can tell and see that there has been huge progress and that serious progress has been made by the people of the Ministry of Defence and the people of the SDPR in terms of the production of our domestic weapons, in terms of the sale of this domestic weaponry and that we have become more numerous than we have ever been before and in the overall scope, but also in the perspective of the development of the domestic armored vehicle "Lazar 2", whether it will be "Lazar 2" M and, of course, with the hoods "Nora" sold and everything else. So, I think the people of the SDPR have shown remarkable work and effort at it. As for the MUP, we want to work to improve, as we do, improve the structure of the ministry, that is, have more police officers and fewer civil servants, because these are the needs of the Republic of Serbia and the needs of citizens. And in the previous year, we worked to open up new police stations, to strengthen the composition in all these places, and to put those people who, by their work, honesty and pawnage, deserve the trust of the citizens. But when we talk about firing, when we talk about people who are going to leave this time, let's say, the public sector, we've heard some comments these days about how party layoffs are being prepared, so I'm interested -- how is it possible to have a party job fired if there wasn't a party job? If in the previous period, which was absolutely part-time employment, from 2008 to 2012, we lost 400,000 jobs in the economy, devastated at that time the power led by the DS, devastated the economy, destroyed it completely because in 2012, we welcomed the budget deficit of almost 12%, in Belgrade, it was 20%, welcomed with inflation, which during that year amounted to slightly more than 12%, in order to have an inflation of 2% today, to have a budget deficit of 3%. So we're trying to show how serious and committed work can be done, how much serious work and commitment can be made to make savings that will be invested where it is most needed, that this money is not based on the constant borrowing that is constantly going to fill that deficit, but that the money we take invest in capital investments and see how much more capital investment realisation is going to be, to invest it where the state and its citizens will return quickly. What is good is that now the biggest investors are not Saric and Miskovic, now investors come from abroad, feel stability in this country. They know that this power that has moved Serbia, significantly in every sense, no longer allows Serbia as it once was high on the scale of corruption, which now tries and succeeds and reduces its debts, but increases its reputation in the world. That's why investors want to come and that's why we expect this projection that Minister Vujovic was talking about to be realized, and I can tell you from what I talked to him about and what we heard at the government's sessions that it was a very conservative assessment. So we certainly expect better results than those presented by the minister. In any case, as far as the MUP is concerned, we will try to make our results better, make the effects of spent money even more visible, and achieve better results with less money to make Serbian citizens safer and safer in the next and all years to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40925	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40926	I remember when we discussed this year's budget that we heard that it was the worst budget in history that would fall apart, which would be one four rebalances. As you can see, this budget turned out to be extremely good, and this is the first government after a long series of years that didn't have to reach out to the rebalance and she's spent the whole financial year, and she did it because she knew she was planning, just as she knows she's planning this budget. You know, criticizing the consequences of your own policy is essentially fair, just to say – these are the consequences of our policy and the problems that this government is now dealing with are the consequences of the policy of the former regime. You have to say it and it wouldn't be unfair to admit it. It's simple, and it would be even better to read the budget exactly as it was written and draw its only conclusions from it. The numbers don't lie. Social protection rights are at a level last year. And identically in the dinar, about 95 billion dinars were, 95 billion are now. No single social giving has been reduced by any single dinar. We are free to be proud of it because we are the only country in Europe that has not done so in the year of crisis and savings. Let me remind you, the crisis -- it's a developmental opportunity, as the former regime's representatives said at the time -- is in that crisis and in that year of crisis we haven't reduced a single dinar of social giving, 95 billion were and 95 billion is now. When it is said that these are the biggest investments in the history of social protection, you have a few people here in parliament who before they became MPs were engaged or still engaged in social protection, so you can talk to them. They're men of the profession. The state has never invested so much. Let me just give you an example from the direct past. So in 2012 and 2013, the state of Serbia allocated 414 million dinars for investment in social protection, and in 2014 and 2015, 717 million dinars were invested in social protection. So, not that it didn't shrink, but it increased significantly. Also, it would also be very good to read and say what you say very precisely. So, 16 billion were not at any National Employment Service, 16 billion is a transition fund that has gone for company workers' severances, in destroyed and ruined businesses over the past 12 years. Companies that were artificially maintained, companies that were created as some kind of strategic enterprise just to buy elections, so they managed to buy only five billion euros in debts that we are all paying together. So that's 16 billion dinars. There is no reduction in any currency for active employment measures through the National Employment Service. Last year there were 2.8 billion and another 500 million dinars for hiring people with disabilities, and this year 2.8 billion and 550 million dinars for hiring people with disabilities. So, even a little increase. This is a transition fund. The 16 billion dinar transitional fund has spent 9.4 billion dinars on severances of all who have requested severances under the law and received severances, and what has not been spent is transferred in the following year, in line with the number of workers in enterprises where privatisation has not yet been completed. So all you have to do is read and accept that that's the way it is. I'm sorry the good news is always bad news for some representatives of the former regime. By the same methodology, in 2009 and 2015, by the same methodology conducted by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is called the Labour Force Survey, 2012, when we assumed responsibility for governance of this country, unemployment was 25.2%, and today it is 16.7%. I am sorry that some representatives of the former regime cannot accept that the same methodology that was in force at the time when they ruled this country is still valid now, and that the same data given then applies now. Unemployment is reduced. I don't understand, you can criticize us that it's not enough, and right now I'll agree with you, it's absolutely not enough, but not to admit the facts, I can't understand it. I can't understand that since you like to meet with representatives of the international community, which is great, but I can't understand why you can't tell them in person that they're all liars and ignorants, because these are the representatives of the IMF, the World Bank and all the relevant states of this world who come and praise Serbia for the decline in unemployment. Only you don't believe them. Tell them they're liars and ignorants. When you meet with them and you like to explain how this is the worst of all countries, add that they are the worst of all people because they lie together with us that unemployment in Serbia is less than it was at a time when representatives of the former regime ruled.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40927	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40928	Right on the line. I've been mentioned by the minister several times, both.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40929	Which one? I need to know which minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40930	Mr. Loncar mentioned DS, and Mr. Vujovic even said he understood me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40931	Okay. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40932	You won't be angry, Minister Vulin and Minister Stefanovic, which I won't talk to you about, these are serious topics and I want to talk about serious things. What you're saying is simple, and the fiscal council is denying it. Mr. Lonchar, if I hadn't done anything in the health care system, you wouldn't have operated on the VMA civilian with the doctors you brought in to operate on VMA. You were there and you know it well. I know what's going on, and everybody knows what it's all about. So if you want to cross the spear on that matter, I'd love to see what you've done and what's done in the military health system in the five years that I've been, draw the line and see. So, Mr. Lonchart, the Health Insurance Fund from 33 billion to 28 billion. Five billion dinars less! You're telling us about the health department in 1.2, and where's 3.8? So here I represent the interests of people who are sick and have a problem, and at the same time you're telling me about how you have more than you have. So I'm on your side, because the finance minister needs to give you more. It's an idea. Mr. Vujovicu, I am telling you this from the corner of an ordinary small citizen who has received an increase in pensions of three dinars a day. I understand that you don't understand it and that it's a long way from you, but that's how it is. You didn't explain to me why the transfer to RFZO was reduced. Why is there less money for employment? Why is there less money for agriculture? There is no more important thing in Serbia than agriculture. Here, the minister is present. Madam Minister, it doesn't exist. You had to ask for more. We'll give the amendment to get you more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40933	Do you know you have to talk to me? You have to talk to me, I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40934	Reduced by the police, reduced by the military. At the same time you're saying we don't understand numbers. I'm a mathematician, Mr. Minister. Math and economy differ in that mathematics... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40935	It's been a while, thank you. You were looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40936	I can still use it from time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40937	You can't. I'm so sorry. It's been two minutes. With regrets, I like to listen to you anyway, but even more answers. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40938	Just to stay for everyone. So, compared to how much this year has been spent in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, there's more going on next year. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "How?" That's nice. We can sit down later, I'll give you everything, and you'll see. So the transfer is bigger than it was spent this year. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: Surfit RFZO. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40939	There's no throwing. Also, Minister, don't speak to anyone personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40940	So he gets more. You'll get all that. Another thing, unlike you, I'm not making a difference between the VMA, the Clinical Center or any other hospital. To me, all citizens of Serbia are the same, whether they are military insurance, whether they are civilians, etc. I'll always try to make this system work together, make it one team, because that's the only way we can do it, and I don't want to make a rival between them and make them one story, and these other stories. So, I'll always try to put them together, get a maximum score. That's my goal. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: you didn't understand me.) I understand you well, but I'm telling you that I will always combine one another, because it's the same system for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40941	The word has Minister Stefanovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I was misunderstood.) Don't make a circus. Sit down, MP, there's got to be some order. I understand all of you, but nothing at all. I must give my word to Minister Stefanovic, a replica, as I understand it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40942	Of course we have nothing to discuss. There's no discussion about the facts we've brought out, and there's nothing to say about it when it's like that. Another thing, for the military and the police, more money will be allocated to those parts that are most important in the system. For the purchase of new equipment, weapons, development, career development, and all that, unfortunately, was missing in some previous period. For the military, I say, in the following year, we have over 800 million dinars more than in the previous year, which is one of the few ministries that managed to get such a significant increase beyond the consolidation measure. As for pensioners, it should be recalled, as it is often sought, that 61% of pensioners in this country did not experience any reduction when pensions were cut. So 61% of pensioners didn't experience a cut for a penny, with the lowest pensions. By increasing pensions these people got more than they had before. So, for these people, it's more than they had before, and that's a trend that we manage to do besides all the serious politics, seriously put into the economy, increase pensions, make sure people have more than they did before, and 61% of pensioners have more than they've ever had before. We are trying to show that we are responsible for this most valuable category of our population who are responsible for what we have today. So, in a serious and responsible way, that's how pensions are done, so in this serious and responsible way, and not irresponsible policy for the government to make a decision, so whether we're going to have money in the budget or not, it doesn't matter, we're going to be in charge, so the pensions are going to be late. They're not late now, they're 61% of pensioners who haven't been taken now have more than before, and we'll see that there's even more to it in the coming years. It's important for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40943	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40944	Madam President, I think that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 of the 1st and 2, because I think that none of the MPs have mentioned it in any way before, and neither of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has mentioned the DS parliamentary group in a bad way, nor Dragan Sutanovac himself. I would just ask you not to turn this session into that movie "Murmot Days". You know, when the same people, the same political actors, and last year, a year ago, announced various catastrophic measures here, at least when it came to the 2015 budget, when Mr Stefanovic said that this was a completely unrealistic prediction, in their opinion, so Mrs Comic, in such a threatening voice, said that you, Vujovic, would come to rebalance, in March of the month. Now with the same vocabulary, they're trying to scare us, not ourselves, to scare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you the only thing I believe, which is that for DS, it's important agriculture because, you know, when someone has a pasture on the Wizard, then of course they're fighting for agriculture, but I'm asking you to put this session into normal flows and into normal communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40945	Thank you. You want us to vote on Article 104. I thought it was good to let it grow. Yeah. Thank you. Here you go, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40946	Madam President, I am also advocating Article 104, but Article 2, in which it is said - if the MP in his presentation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40947	But the MP had previously used the right 104 without an attitude, so to an entire member. You have to be innovative and quote something else. Indeed, such is the Rules of Procedure, and now I will break it knowingly if I am kind to you again, and I am not. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Well, well, it can also be 103, abuse. ) Something else, but sit till you remember. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: No, no, I remembered.) Thank you. Until then, he'll be speaking to Rizzo Halimi. Here you go, Riza Halimi. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? No, don't obstruct, it's not interesting. I don't react at the scream. Riza Halimi, please, I'll make it look like I'm stopping you from talking. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? Sit down. There'll be a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you figure it out. Peace in the O.R. Riza Halimi, be loud because otherwise there's nothing we can do. Thank you. Sign up again, I know you've been confused by shouting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40948	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Ministers, I will be involved in this debate on the proposals of important laws, which I hope will contribute to finally getting out of this long-standing crisis, that they will finally live better, that normal working conditions will be created, for life for all of our citizens. Here and before this debate, and today we are talking about this development component, the development budget and the reduction of the unemployment rate. It's a good thing if it's really a situation in certain parts of society and state. However, it still does not feel absolutely possible in all of the most underdeveloped municipalities, and with confidence I say that it absolutely does not feel in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, because the unemployment rate back there is growing rapidly for years. She's not 70, she's 80%, enormously tall. You look when someone can do something about it. Only in some emergency situations, such as the situation now with a large, enormous number of refugees from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or some earlier times of the international embargo, when oil was also illegally transferred here from Macedonia and as neighbouring border municipalities were as current as they are now. But unfortunately, there is no improvement in some normal, regular actions, actions that governments need to take, the state to take, state institutions to take. Let's see, in light of the budget in the position for the Coordination Body, it is said – since it is about municipalities that are strategically important for the Republic of Serbia, the official coordination body, in collaboration with other state bodies, implements programmes, projects, with the aim of the overall development of these municipalities. Now, the hour is heard in public by officials and here in parliament we have had the opportunity to hear, but also by government officials, the President of the Coordination Body, to provide for these municipalities extra special funds for their development. Now I ask the question – where are the effects of these extra funds that are reportedly separated for these municipalities? Why isn't there an analysis? I've been looking for them for ten years. Only once in the anniversary of the establishment of the Coordination Body in 2002 was that. There is no more, because this whole coordination body has turned into one man, president of the Coordination Body, who works without any operational or any programmes, not to mention medium- and long-term, but not to the annual operational plans and programmes. There's absolutely no responsibility in that situation, we don't know what we're on. If extra funds are given, how come there is no analysis of where the effects are, what has been achieved, if subsidies are given to private firms, how much of these funds have increased the number of employees, which have potentially been in other social activities? It's not there. Now, let's take this situation a little more seriously, that every time representatives of municipalities report to apply for subsidies or any tender for funds that certain ministries give to development municipalities, they usually get a response – you have the Coordination Body. So they're smoothly rejected. But it is even more dangerous that in these 15-16 years of the existence of the Coordination Body, the main objective is not to strengthen the capacity of these municipalities, to simply be self-sustainable, to be able, as other municipalities, to compete, and I know it well, from neighbouring municipalities through the IPA funds annually to up to eight million euros in investment. And we're talking about extra funds from about 120-130 million that get from the Coordination Body Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, about 50-60. That time says they're extra resources. In fact, these are the funds that they should get even more, that they competed in all ministries, in all the development funds and in all the funds that grant subsidies, and there is no such thing, unfortunately. Now I think that there really should be, if these are strategical important municipalities for this country, but if they are important to the people, and not just for their positions and positions, or if it's just a strategic position, and not for the people who live here, I would expect it to be, we still have a more serious approach. That we don't have this situation, you're talking here, in this explanation, about that, it says, the whole program is about legal basis, the Regulation on the establishment of the Office of the Co-ordination Body, and you don't call anywhere on the 2009 Decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the arrangement of the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, where six co-ordination groups have been envisaged, and for both the economy and for education and for all other important life areas, and that they have not been established at all over the past few years, they don't exist. Even the Coordination Body comes down to one man. We've been pushing again all this time, you've turned this Coordination Body into a media propaganda center, and in my opinion, it's just creating Podokin's villages, creating a fame that honey and milk are going there, that the state is doing huge things, and when you look at it in particular, the situation is getting worse and worse. The unemployment rate is rising, the Presevo municipality is somewhere with six times lower national income than the corresponding national average. There are other municipalities here. So around this topic, I think this is enough, but I'd keep going around the positions for the national councils that have stayed at that level where they've been so far. If a budget fund for national minorities of 1,800,000 dinars is added, it remains at the level of symbolism. As early as 2002, the Minority Rights Act envisioned this fund. About seven, eight years ago, for the first time, it entered the budget position, but whether it is a position of 1,800,000 dinars that should allow national minorities to develop, to be effective, to provide them with effective participation in social public life, probably not. Every serious man can say that for all minorities in Serbia, 25% to 30% of the population of the country, with 1,800,000 dinars, you have that budget with which to work. That's ridiculous. So I think this story about the National Council of Albanians, that's quite a mess. That's where the state was shamed, 30% of the 13-year-olds of about 18,000,000, some 12,000,000, 13,000,000 dinars when the Albanian national council collapsed and what should it do with those 13,000,000 dinars? Education, culture, information and all other important actions that the law provides for the national council has, and Albanians do not have any other institution, which have national minorities in Vojvodina, so they have other sources. They also have sources from the Vojvodina budget, and this comes down to all 13 million dinars that are 30% down, as the state counted that there were 62,000 Albanians but there were 5,800, which was funny. Now it has come down to a decrease of about 62,000 to 52,000, not even that 10,000. It takes an analysis of why this reduction occurred, and it was serious, but where it was an idea, despite what it was, every year the Statistics Institute is assessing each municipality, for the vital events of the population. Why is it that from the 13th to the present day, the assessment of the Statistics Institute has not been applied in practice? Why did we have to go to the National Council elections instead of 29 representatives with only 15, which is minimum, has the state treated Albanians with only 5,800. Where did that go, like, 57-58 grand? No one's ever asked that question at all or given any answers. Further, the same thing with those parameters is operating. We lost both the basic court and the prosecution in 2013, did I get a direct answer here – where did the right of municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants to have a basic court, and Presevo had 35,000. Now it turned out to be 29-30,000, not 3,000 that officially operated that year, when there was a major reduction in the judiciary. I'd add IPA funds to this subject, famous. I'll leave, I don't know when these elections will be, and I won't be, probably after eight or nine years of a member of this parliament, and I still don't know why this country alone with Macedonia doesn't have cross-border co-operation. There are no IPA funds and we don't even use those IPA funds there. The position of Presevo and Bujanovac was devastated, when the former federal state fell apart, because the border area as soon as new creation and these situations occurred, the divisions that occurred here since 1992, we had this artificial, artificially severed connection with the areas in Macedonia, afterwards both with Kosovo and without some co-operation, cannot be normalised. We and Macedonia still don't have that kind of opportunity after seven years. Still on this part of the Public Service Act. Here again all the ministers of information, since 2007 I ask – why is RTS not in Albanian for a minute and there is no answer? Now what? Citizens should pay whether 500 dinars or less, based on this decision to be made by this amendment to the Public Service Act. But again I ask the question – did they have to pay a fee without having a series of these years or minutes of production, whether it's news, whether it's cultural emissions, informative, that they don't have in their own language for one minute. And, let me add, Presevo can't track this transmission today, because RTS doesn't have a transmitter, there's no amplifier for that community. Now it depends whether cable television will transmit RTS 2. Then why should the citizens pay, I ask the question? Who do they pay? There are a number of serious things here that require serious attention, not with these political games currently being run through the president of the coordination body, it is devastating for the state interests and for the interests of citizens in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40949	Thank you. I have two answers, just a little patience, I have to give the word of Alexandra Jerkov to the Rules of Procedure, and then I give the word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40950	I thank the president, and I'm the only one who called the office when I was supposed to answer, and you didn't give me a word when you were supposed to give it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40951	It's kind of rude for me to interrupt Ambassador Riza Halimi, but I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40952	No, that was before you gave him your word, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40953	Yeah, I'm not having a hard time apologizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40954	It doesn't matter, on several occasions you violated Article 103. Rules of Procedure. First of all, you allowed Mr. Zoran Babic to replicate instead of explaining what he thought an injury had been done. Then you did not give me the word as soon as I asked, and in the end you were wrong and contrary to what is written in the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament, Dragan Šutanovac, which is why you do not think he has the right to point out. Namely, I will read Article 103 – The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. Please tell me where it says in the Rules of Procedure that it can't be pointed to the injury of the same member of the Rules of Procedure? Now I don't know what words to say anymore, the session is going on in some real time, and in this real time, it's possible for you to do more damage to the Rules of Procedure and to violate the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that it cannot be pointed out to the president for the violation of the same member of the Rules of Procedure, but rather to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure that some MP has already pointed out. Otherwise, as a national MP, I addressed MP Martinovic as chairman of the board of directors to give us an interpretation of this position. I think it's unusually important for the way we work. Or that it's important that you tell us now that we can organize ourselves. If this applies to the same member, tell us how long that ban lasts, five minutes, ten minutes, by the end of the day, never again, just to agree that we know how we work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40955	Thank you. We'll talk about it later, but it's impossible for me to hurt the Rules of Procedure with silence, and it's very clear here that Article 104, if someone calls on an entire member, well, if you're saying so, are we going to vote on the injury? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. All right, thank you. They have to answer to MP Riza Halimi Jadranka Joksimovic, so Kori Udovici. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40956	Thank you. Here's MP Halimi, you've often asked questions about cross-border co-operation with Macedonia, and I'm so glad I can cheer you up. Just today, a letter was sent that I originally initiated for co-operation with Macedonia. It has been agreed and sent to the European Commission. We proposed a territory on our part of the Pcinski, Jablanski and Nisevski District and Macedonia, the Skopje and the Northeast region was proposed. The plan was to send this letter by the end of the year, so that we could get the comments of the European Commission by April 2016, which will mean that we will be able to enter the programming and competition procedure for IPU 2016. Because IPA funds, it's clear to me that there's not enough understanding about pre-accession funds, I have to tell you that we've been participating in programmes since 2007, so it's a question for some others, why they haven't worked enough on the visibility of IPA programs and cross-border co-operation and hence the misunderstanding, but all IPE funds are being negotiated a year later. So, all of what we've agreed to by 2016 we have a chance to use, because from 2017 on, it's actually going to start using that money. The letter was sent today by circumstances. We'll solve that problem, too. I think that's important. You should know that this is usually a very important job in which we need to identify and create a questionnaire that we send Macedonia, where we call from ministries to chambers of commerce, associations, municipalities, NGOs, so all interested. That's what the other side does. Then we need statistical questionnaires for a certain part of the territory that we've defined, which I've already counted. That's what we and them do. And the third part is, a list of strategic documents that will form the basis for the preparation of this programme. There's no reason, believe me, there's no one, I don't know why you insist on any particular political reason or no act or no will to do this program. On the contrary, it's even initiated from our side. Several technical meetings were held. The deputy prime minister of the Macedonian government is in charge of the national IPU, on our side it's me, so you don't have to worry about it, and I believe this is the last time you're going to ask that question, and I urge you to be in the process and follow how all this is happening. On the other hand, when I've already answered my word, I'd have to say something about the budget itself and some, I think, things that, very briefly, things that are mentioned and that define this budget, I think, in the wrong way. If we are focused as a state, not only because of European integration, but it is an important part, therefore economic policy and good economic governance, which is one of the criteria for a successful continuation of European integration. If we focus, therefore, on good governance of public finances, and this is the essence of this new or good governance of public finances, which is mentioned as one of the criteria and enlargements in general of membership candidates, then I think that this budget perfectly shows and reflects, that exactly the government's objectives to bring the public sector to the right extent of the needs of citizens and that the budget, as far as possible, is more disbursed than the bad loans and the bad debts that I will remind, in particular from 2008 to 2012, have been extremely unfavorable for Serbia, with high annual annuity, with a poor credit structure. That's all that comes in at some point. Therefore, we must keep that in mind, and we are glad that Serbia today is far from the debt crisis in which it threatened to be at some point. On the contrary, I think we've shown a stabilization of public finances. What many don't understand, and we've been talking lately, is this chapter 32 that we're going to open on December 14th, and that's very important for the budget as well. And the budget, among other things, goes through Chapter 32. Because chapter 32 is about financial, let me say, total financial control, where the focus is exactly on managing public finances. Therefore, the budget will definitely go to check. The control and audit system established through the closure of Chapter 32 must be in line with the absolute European standards and values and controls and audits. Therefore, even sometimes more than money is important to establish a system, and a system where discretionary decision space is narrowed down, and predictability in spending citizens and taxpayers' funds is predictable, I think great progress and a step in making the system. In such a system, then you can easily define or mitigate these socially most sensitive fiscal consolidation measures that we have managed to do through another revision of the IMF arrangement and free up space to some extent, perhaps not enough, perhaps citizens are not satisfied and we understand that, but to open up a space for the mitigation of these socially difficult fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. reduction of public sector wages and a reduction of pensions, which means that we have made it possible, I say, through a successful review with the IMF, to open up a space for a slight increase precisely in both part of pensions and part of public sector wages. Speaking of the IMF, I also have to remind you that another government has managed to unrealise its commitments from the IMF arrangement and break the arrangement with the IMF, which has significantly reduced Serbia's rating, because it has failed to meet its commitments under the IMF arrangement. We didn't just do it, we passed a pretty good IMF review. Of course, it is not Serbia's goal and of course it is not the aim of these governments to talk about economic reforms only in the context of the IMF rating. We are doing very patiently and well to be able to say in the future that our finances are not publicly conditioned by IMF estimates. But, please, don't minimize the importance of achieving at this time an arrangement with the IMF that evaluates in the right way and this budget and all the fiscal consolidation measures and other measures that we have taken. Don't forget, a few days ago we adopted a plan to consolidate public finances and he actually took, reforming public finances is an official name. In the context of European integration, last year we made the first plan of economic reforms, which went well, well assessed, this year we are going back to it. Therefore, even though I am not in favour of only calling for references and what the international financial institutions say, but don't forget that it gives one stability, one predictability and one, it seems to me, a smaller maneuvering space to manage public finances in a discreet manner. That's what brought Serbia into the past, like a country that has a bad and credit rating and investment rating, we've fixed it all. It goes slowly, it doesn't go easy, but I think doing criticism certainly isn't based on arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40957	I thank Mrs Joksimovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40958	I would like to respond to some of the comments that MP Riza Halimi made on spending the funds and at all work to support this government through national minority councils. The problems that Parliamentarian Halimi mentioned are many years old, and in fact in the previous period, and especially in 2016, this government has done much more than before, to actually get rid of them. They're reduced, not completely removed. We wish the National Minority Councils Fund could be increased, that was not possible. We do business in terms of fiscal consolidation and all wishes cannot be met, however, spending on national councils of national minorities has been increased overall, and more importantly, it is working to ensure that this quality, quality and consumption is improved and that the entire financial discipline in the spending of national councils is strengthened, so that these funds really go towards meeting and improving the needs of national minorities and their self-government. In particular, I would also like to stress that the Republic Council for National Minorities, which was only built years ago, has worked this year, met three times and every time productively. Mechanisms have been established to co-operate and remove misunderstandings or lack of coordination from the past, when it comes to the work of national councils of national minorities, in terms of both education and information, and when it comes to minorities with countries of origin which are both members of the EU and ultimately, not least, and to improve in co-ordination with the co-ordination body. It is not clear to me that MP Halimi somehow concluded that the funds that the Coordination Body spends are just some sort of compensation for something that would otherwise require municipalities in southern Serbia to collect in some other way? There is no doubt that special and additional funds are being invested in these municipalities and that it is working to improve the standard of life and self-government and the realisation of national rights in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Finally, I would just like to say that when it comes to the census count, that this is also one of the greatest achievements of last year in our cooperation, that a solution has been made and found for the fact that because of the 2011 boycott, the estimate, that is, of the population of these municipalities that are located in the official statistics and that can only be used in the legal regulatory way, that this assessment was unrealistic and that we now have one real assessment and that we have a mechanism that will be able to make more realistic decisions that depend on the number of populations in these municipalities. So these are major achievements that will allow for increased investment in general for national minorities in the coming year, but especially for the Albanian minority in the territory of the three municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40959	Thank you. (Riza Halimi, from the city, reporting for word.) Mr. Halimi, on what basis do you want the word? (Riza Halimi, from town: Replica. ) Before that, the word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I wanted to highlight one indiscipline on what MP Halim was saying when it came to the position of the Serb people and the Serb national minority in the countries of origin. When it comes to Mr. Halimi, I don't know which country does he consider his country of origin? Are they the national minority of Albania or Kosovo, since it usually exists as a problem in their expressions? The Serbian people in Albania would be overjoyed if they had 10 times less rights than you have here in Serbia. The Serbian people in Albania have changed their last name for 20, 30 years. The Serbian people in Albania, the Serb national minority, have a problem with their organisation, with their seats, with the way they are organised. What national council? What are you talking about? Today you could hear Ivan Zvonimir Čicka who says that Serbs in Croatia are protected as a white bear. I think it's really time for Serbia as a state to show seriousness and put these issues high on the scale of its priorities, which means that there are no aprior friends or enemies. You know how, I can't figure out that Serbia's bigger friend is Indonesia than some of our neighbouring countries. If that's the case, then we'll treat them like any other country, Papua and New Guinea. Serbia has a constitutional obligation to treat countries according to their treatment of the Serb national minority, or the Serb people living there. I've been listening to what you've been talking about. You even threatened the Prime Minister. You mentioned a blockade of some boundaries, textbooks. What are you talking about? (Risa Halimi, from the place: it wasn't me. It's not you, it's these other ones of yours. You are not the only representative of the Albanian national minority here. You have a situation that you want textbooks from Kosovo or Albania to be applied to children in Serbia. You want to teach in Serbia that Kosovo is an independent state. You want to learn in Serbia that the Decani are part of some of your Neemani dynasty, etc. That won't work, I'm sorry. You can call whoever you want. Let me tell you that when it comes to the Serbian people living in Croatia, when she was a Cyrillic, Maja Kocijančić said that this is not the competence of the European Union, and when it comes to your application for so-called. The alliance of Albanian municipalities here with us, then Maja Kocijancic warns Serbia that it must respect national minorities. He didn't, did he? How many more of those double arches? So, please, stay away from looking for help somewhere on the side. Deal with your country, with the state of Serbia. You won't have any more rights anywhere. Here, now you've had a chance to see, when people from the EU come to Kosovo, they wonder if they came to Albania or Kosovo, because they can't find any flags of Kosovo. That is the essence of your policy – the creation of a great Albania. And if you think Presevo and Bujanovac are going to be part of all that, I think you're going on the wrong card. That Serbia is correct in the negotiations, that is our strength, and it is not weakness. Don't play and try our strength. So I ask all national minorities in Serbia, no national minority should be discriminated against in Serbia because they are not Serbs, but no Serb living in Serbia should be discriminated against because of living in environments where most of the national minorities are. This is the basic principle and basic rule that exists in the EU. And don't lecture on the lack of the rights of national minorities in Serbia. The level of national minorities' rights in Serbia is much higher than in other countries, especially in a country whose national minority you are. If you think that the way to solve national minorities is not to have them, as you did in Albania, then that is not the European way to solve the problem. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: He did not make ethnic cleansing in Albania. I don't know why you're reacting, Mr. Veselinovic, why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40961	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40962	I didn't throw it to you. If you have anything to say to me, come in, I'm always ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40963	I thank Mr. Dacic. (Vučeta Toskovic, from the post: He is from the Like National Minority. ) (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I am reporting for the word. On what basis, Mr. Veselinovic? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40964	So the chairman, the speaker, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, injured a member of 107, or you injured a 107 member because you did not warn him. So the Deputy Prime Minister hurt the dignity of the National Assembly by blaming and accusing the MPs here present that they are making great Albania, that they have ethnically cleaned up... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40965	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. Thank you. He's got a word... (Shaip Camberi, from the city: I'm reporting for word. (Riza Halimi, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Cambery, on what basis are you? (Shaip Kamberi, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Only an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, please. Mr. Halimi also called. Do you, Mr. Halimi, as an authorised representative, want a replica? A microphone. [[Riza Halimi, from the post: I first asked for a reply to the Minister's discussion...]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40966	I could also hurt Mr. Becic's statement right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40967	You have the right to the replica for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40968	Let's do it first, just for a little while. My discussion and the question of the Deputy Prime Minister has been directed towards clarifying why this year the data on the number of Albanians and the number of residents in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, after this engagement of the international group of experts, could not have been used since 2013 even though it was the basis, the assessment of the Bureau of Statistics? The law obliges this institution to make estimates every year. The question is simple – why did it take three years to discriminate between the Albanian national minority and by number and by funding, and when could this be clarified in 2013, because the Statistical Office is an official body that works each year to assess the number of residents for each municipality in the country? As for Deputy Prime Minister Dacic's statement, they're really unexpected. He only had a minute of my discussion to follow, not the first part, basically. But in any case, I would ask you, Mr Dacic, why don't you and your colleague, Mr Bushati, discuss these issues about the position of the Serb minority in Albania? Why are you hiring us here as representatives of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley in this House with this problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40969	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40970	We are asking here to exercise the rights of Albanians under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international conventions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40971	Time's up. You spoke seven, eight seconds more than you have the right for two minutes. Thank you. Replica, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40972	That's what the Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic and I talked about several times with Albanian colleagues. You know, Albania says there are no Serbs. Then who are you going to have sex with? No Serbs because they're gone, they can't be called that anymore, they can't change their last name, etc. You are talking about education in Albanian language in Serbia. Do you understand that it is utopia for the Serbian people in Albania, that there is a school in Serbian, that has a university in Serbian? Well, we in Croatia can't fight to remain a Cyrillic board. So, I'm not saying that Serbia should reduce the rights of its national minorities, but it should be valued, not in Brussels or the story of Serbia's dictatorship over national minorities, for intervention of the international community, as it happens. I say this not as a member of the ruling party, I speak as a man who has worked intensively in recent months to fight our cause, UNESCO, etc. You know, I can't understand, I can't accept it anymore that we need someone to be more friends than they are to us. We're as friends as they are to us. I say it openly. If I'm wrong, change me. But Macedonia has put up a protest because Zorana Mihajlovic put it somewhere, or I don't know who, BJRM on the road, where it's being built. Well, so BJRM bothers them, and we don't mind that they voted for Kosovo in UNESCO, and we recognised them as the Republic of Macedonia, and the whole world, the United Nations, the European Union, the OSCE recognises them as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I have to say we're fools, because we're working against our national interests. And it was Milosevic's rule, or we, because it happened in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40973	Thank you. Replication complete. Thank you. (Riza Halimi, from town: Replica. You've got the answer. I followed the debate several times. The name that's mentioned doesn't mean anything. You repeat my name twenty times, but you didn't say anything wrong. I listened very carefully. The rights of your national minority in Serbia and the right of the Serb national minority in the environment have been cited. One of them is Albania. I don't know where you are. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40974	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would still return to the budget. Now the debate on the budget is one of the most important documents this National Assembly brings in a year. I was just about to start a discussion about it. As soon as we don't talk about the budget, that's what the budget says. It means it's a good budget, a well-earned budget. That's why we have a debate about everything else except what's right or wrong with the budget. That's good. That's why we might be in this dilemma and relaxed. Why is that? Because of the fact that we brought in a good budget in 2015, that in 2015 we brought in a budget that is reformal, a budget that has well assessed both income and expenditure, that we have brought in a budget where we have not hidden anything below the line and that everything has been clear and transparent. A lot of people said we weren't gonna make it, that we were gonna make rebalancing. However, to our great joy, we believed that we would realize it. For many, it was unexpected. We've achieved very good results. These results give us the IMF, it should be pointed out, the World Bank, and even the Fiscal Council is very positive about what was done in 2015. This budget in 2016 is nothing more than a continuation of that path that we set out in 2015. That's why this budget, in my opinion, is in the SDPS' view one real budget. Why? Because we took a good look at the income side and because we had a good view of the cost side. He's stable, in other words, is exactly foreseen when, what comes into that budget. It's well assessed and it's sustainable, it's very important to point out, because you can put whatever you want in the budget, and if there's no accomplishments, then you're free, they're just good wishes. This budget in 2016, I firmly believe it will be achieved and will achieve the same results, especially in financial consolidation, as it was in 2015. Let me remind you, in 2015, we predicted a budget deficit of 191 billion, and it is, as you know, somewhere now at 120 billion. So 70 billion is saved. That 70 billion, unfortunately, we had to place where we didn't want to, on something that turned up as a debt. Here, first of all, I'm thinking about military pensions and thinking about the debt of "Serbiagas". But, look, it's a one-time payment and we didn't borrow for it. It's a big deal. When you do not borrow, and you return on the basis of what you get, it is a sign that Serbia is on the right track in an economic, financial way. That's the way we have to keep going. But also, if we're not fooling ourselves, we're in reform. Reforms don't last just one year. It will last 2016, 2017. I have to say this for the citizens of Serbia. Why? It's not easy. This is all we've achieved, we've achieved at a great price, a reduction in wages and pensions. We also achieved the fact that we fired a number of people at work. It's a big price we've paid and we're going to pay, and it's better than getting into a situation where we end up having a budget collapse, and that would happen because the debt would grow, and we now have our debt under control and be confident, very soon we're going to get into a situation where that debt is going to fall, and that's our goal, that's our perspective. Sometimes in Serbia, we are not patient, and we have to wait, because reforms are neither easy nor fast. Patience is what will lead us to the fact that we are really going, to stand on what we need, to what we need. I'd say what's waiting for us in 2016. In 2016, I've already pointed out, it won't be easy, but what I can do as a message from the National Assembly to send the public of Serbia is the fact that we have a stable budget, that pensioners will always get pensions like so far 10 and 25, public service salaries will be 5 and 20. You can simply cheer the timer, the ones who receive through the bank, when you get a message that it's either a bed or a pay or a pension. It's a great result in these difficult circumstances, under the circumstances of what we have, what we have found and what it is that our economy can give in these conditions. Pensions aren't big, salaries aren't big, but make sure that over time, when we get the results, we get to it. Of course, to realize all this, there is much more to be done. What no one here emphasizes, yes, we had a very good tax collection and contributions. It's a very large result of the tax administration. That's why our income in 2015 was very good. True, we in the IRS must complete the reform we started, because we must always be convinced that the tax must be paid. One more thing, the fight against the gray economy. It should not be forgotten that 30% of our assets disappear in the gray economy and then, when you don't get a fiscal bill and pay something, be assured that you've damaged the state, not only the state, but you've damaged education and health care, you've damaged the pensioner, because it's simply someone who has that money that the state has put in their pocket. Nobody's pointed out here yet, and that's what I'm trying to say. It's about the next one. No one says the private sector has growth in this country. The growth of the private sector, the growth of investment in the private sector, the growth of wages in the private sector, that's what we wanted. So the private sector that needs to live, where we need to have more production, and the larger production will mean more exports. There's no magic wand. You can't make any budget and you can't be in a rich country unless we're developing a market economy, a private sector, and if we don't give incentives. The task of the state is that in the economy only to frame, and further the market should regulate everything it has. I'm not talking about numbers. Of course, Serbian citizens know that the total income is 997 billion, that the expenditure is thousands and 100 billion. That's what's very good to know. What does that mean? We offer stability, stability which will mean that we have controlled inflation, that we have a very low budget deficit and that we have growth in production, GDP growth. Maybe it seems a little bit of a minus three, minus 1.5, 0.5 to someone. Yeah, we're going to 1.8. It's a very big result for this country, and we have to stress it this time and put it to a special point. I want to say there is no realisation of this budget, unless we finish the privatisation process, that we know finally which companies can continue to work, and what to do with those 17 enterprises that are in restructuring. I always ask that particular question to the Minister of Industry, expecting that he will keep his promise that by May, we will know where we are, what we are. It is hard, because a large number of people will be out of work, and that's why we've also predicted a transfer fund for severance, but finally to complete the transition. I think we are one of the countries in Europe where transition is the longest. It's this longest transition that can't give us the opportunity to have a secure, stable economic system, secure, stable budget and move forward. Furthermore, large systems, we often say that we will restructure them, that we will transform them, that we will come into a situation where big systems bring us income. That's what we talk about a lot. I don't want to mention EPS, I don't want to mention "Serbiagas," I don't want to mention PTT. So these are large systems, which are transformed and which must be well managed, professionally managed to deliver results to this country, to deliver results and to contribute to the budget. It's the only thing we can expect to happen in the future. What we have to do, that's what our advantages are, where we can do what our advantage is to be in the EU, that we pass it on. It's agriculture. I agree that agriculture is our development opportunity and perhaps there was a lot of uncertainty here whether the reduced subsidies to agriculture were reduced or not. I have to tell you right away that agricultural production needs to be subsidized, but it needs to go to the manufacturer who needs it. They don't need these subsidies to go to those who are rich, they don't need these subsidies to go to those who, when we've brought up to 100 acres, are getting divorced, they're dividing the country, I don't know who to charge money from the state. Somehow it is often expected to be taken from the state, not given to the state. I hope that we will have the Agricultural Land Act very soon, that we will reopen and open this issue again who and how we process our agricultural land, our largest economic resource, who and how at the expense of it is rich, and the state has nothing of it. The bottom line of the story about agricultural land is that the state is benefiting from all this. I expect construction to be part of it. Every government's success will be measured by how many miles of highways are completed. I'll be very happy that this government takes so long to finish Corridor 10. I won't even mention Corridor 11. Let's finish one, then finish the other. Let us not keep opening and leave half of it unfinished and by measuring the success of the government. This government, I believe, will complete it. One more thing. There's a little talk here. It's tourism. We had a significant growth in tourism last year. This significant growth in tourism felt both foreign, which is higher by 30% and domestic. This domestic tourism is where we shared the vouchers, where Serbian citizens finally began to meet their country. I am pleased that significant funds have been given in the 2016 budget. I would much prefer that for tourism, which is our great development opportunity, it is also given to foreign tourists, to lure them into our country. I'm just glad to see Belgrade dressed up and know how many people will come for New Year's Eve and realize that we live on it. We live on tourism, on service, and on how kind we are to every tourist who comes to us to spend their money, and we only sell what we have produced, not what we have imported, but what we produce, and that's what this country will get out of the crisis in which it is. Of course, we are a country that has become an EU candidate. On the 14th, we get to open the chapter. We cannot be part of the EU if we do not settle our economic and financial system in line with EU requirements. And that's exactly where I expect us to move forward in the next big step, and that will be the results we're going to talk about. Finally, to stress that the SDPS will be happy to vote in favour of the 2016 budget and all accompanying laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40975	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40976	Thank you to the Honorable President of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, I will speak for a few minutes only at the start of talking about one law, from a set of these 12 laws, which was not a word, and we warned at the beginning of this session that one of the hidden intentions of this organized session was to hide, which is the Law on the Supplements of the Law on "Belgrade on Water". So this is where it's planted so that we don't discuss it. A addition to a law that introduces complete disenfranchisement in construction, in Serbia. These changes allow construction permits that do not exist under the Law on Planning and Construction to be issued under the Beograd on Water project. The possibility of phase building permits to be built by phases is given. It doesn't exist in the law. I want to hear it through, I expect to hear it, I apologize, until the end of this session, why is this solution applied, what is the intention of this? Is the intention of getting these phase building permits to free itself from paying for municipal equipment, well, that the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia are paying for the total 100 hectares of municipal equipment themselves? Why is this put into debate about the budget, when, besides the Budget Law, we have 10 other laws? It is completely inappropriate to discuss this project in this way, which the government says is the most important, in the congregation. I'm going to stop now, because I want to talk about the budget and other laws. In the third sentence, the minister told a lie in the opening statement. After that, it was hard for me to listen to him and trust him. The minister said -- we're bringing the budget to the assembly on time this year and there's no delay in the budget system law. I have the Minister's stenogram to confirm that you've said it. The budget system law, article 31 says - October 5th, the government adopts a fiscal strategy and delivers to parliament. The fiscal strategy was adopted on December 3rd, that is when it came to parliament. Further -- the budget comes to the assembly on November 1st. He came on December 4th. And then the contrary to the Rules of Procedure, which tells us that only after 15 days can the debate begin, began today, five days after we received the budget. The only thing to be respected from that member is that the budget will be adopted by 15 December. Probably. I expect we'll adopt in these few days until 15. But it's not true, Minister, that you sent the budget on time and that you respected the law. Then when you tell such a lie, I have a problem trusting you in everything else you've said. It was said here that the opposition's discussions were repeated over the budget debate a year ago. I agree to repeat myself, because what we said was going to happen is going to happen. The 2015 budget was not developmental. There's no development. The only savings in the budget that has been made is in the position of savings on salaries and transfers of the pension fund. Basically, there are no other essential savings. The revenues, we spoke to ministers then, that your revenues were conservatively planned, you planned 399 billion VAT, it seems to me this year 412 billion at the end of the year that it would be, and the budget for the next year 421 billion dinars. We thought it could do better. Why did we think that? Well, here's the efficiency of VAT collection, in 2010 77%, in 2011 74%, in 2012, 76% and then the fall in 2013 69%, and now it's up to 71%. That's got to do better. That can do better. Some other government could've done it better. Yes, Minister, a shift has been made compared to 2013 and 2014, I agree with you here. But we have one problem in communication. The ruling majority adopts the fourth budget of the Republic of Serbia for the fourth time. Fourth time. For four years, you have managed Serbia, and you blame not all the former ones. What exes? How long are we gonna be back? When is this country the most ruined? In the '90s? When wars were waged, when bombs were dropped on the head, when three stamps were lived a month. You're talking about what was done in 2000 to 2012. Some people find it funny even though they took part in the government. Let's talk about how much the average earnings have been raised since 2000-2012, how much has been invested in Serbia. How much did the pensions get, what was it all done? Who are you comparing yourself to? When you take a budget statement, you take a year in history that suits you the most, so compare yourself to that year. He's somewhere in 2009, about 2008, somewhere in 2012. You take what suits you, but reality is different. After a year, you came to us with a budget that says among other things that the state of Serbia will issue guarantees for several projects, for the EPS 200m euros, for the EPS wind farm Kostolac 80m euros, for the ESM 15m for the Trans-Balkan Corridor. Why do we take these loans, and at the same time we charge the profits that these companies allegedly make directly into the budget. This loan as favourable as it is, it has some interest, whether it's zero, one, two, there's interest. Why isn't the money that was paid into the budget given to fund these projects, if it's getting public enterprises such a good thing? We believe that it is not precisely because the lack of investment in public enterprises reduces development in the future. I think we've all mastered that economic lesson, except for us, well. I think I've mastered the lesson, Mr. Minister, several times here you've told us that increased public spending doesn't lead to social growth, you said – it was the wrong approach, so you ran the finances in your time. Then we hear two days ago the prime minister says -- okay Belgrade, then people will spend more and we will grow GDP. At least teach the Prime Minister that lesson. Teach him, then come here and teach me a lesson. I'm willing to listen, I don't know for sure about an economy like you, but I do know some things. If you're not investing today, you can't expect to grow in the next few years. What's the status? You're boasting of 0.75% growth. You boast because you planned to be – 0.5%, and in fact it would be 0.75, 0.8%, and that it was the biggest change, and everyone else planned one. One of the things that is appreciated in politics and economy is good planning. If the planned inflation is 4%, plus minus 1.5, then if inflation is 2%, then it means you weren't planning something. It's better of course that it's two than ten, you know, we have these experiences. But it's still not good. What kind of environment do we live in? That's our problem, that's what we're talking about. Our growth of 0.7. 0.8% is the lowest this year in the region. The region of Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, however, has a growth of about 2.6%, I think. Growth in Europe is in the euro zone 1.9. Next year's 2%. So if we achieve these 1.8%, it's still less than the average of Europe. So we will continue to lag behind Europe. We need 4 or 5% growth rates. That's where we all agree. Are they possible in these first year? I agree they didn't, but I don't see any reason for your optimism today that this will happen in 2017 and 2018. On the contrary, I see this budget as a pre-election budget, a budget of good wishes, a budget that you want in some elections in the first half of the following year to win votes, come in, do the majority again, and then let the new government come here and propose the first VAT increase, because the IMF people say – that's what we agreed. If there's not enough VAT charge, we'll raise the VAT. Today, there are also increases in excise duties to replace, i.e. to secure a certain amount in the budget. What will be the result of the adoption of these excises? Today, the participation of public taxes in the average retail price, which is why Serbia is somewhere in the region in the middle, the fifth. If the price of gasoline increases, or excise duty for this 5%, we'll be in second place. We'll be first in line for the Eurodizelle. According to excise duties, i.e. the participation of public taxes on liquid oil gas, we are already in first place, and this decline in the price of oil on the world market will not feel Serbia's citizens, as they do not feel when the price of gas falls 23% this year. No remote heating system in Serbia has reduced the prices of district heating. There's no such thing. Citizens can't feel any better about things that don't affect the work of this government. There's something going on in the world markets that we should be in favor of as citizens, but we can't feel it because the government finds itself replacing the loss it's making in other fields. In what fields? Very, Minister Vujovic, you spoke vigorously about how it is necessary for Serbia to have an effective state administration and that rationalisation is not about reducing the number of jobs, but rather about getting a more efficient public administration where citizens will get the most for their money. That's where we agree with you, but you said the same thing a year ago. The exact same sentence you said, because the 2015 budget envisioned rationalization, the release of 25,000 people. How much of that was done? We've been waiting a year for the Public Sector Payments Act. He's a year late. Now you have a 2016 plan, according to the Fiscal Council, to fire 29,000 people, but without programmes and plans. You can't tell that's what's gonna happen. I would like to hear something from the Minister of Culture – how did he manage to manage to get subsidies in culture this year, that is, 55% less money next year? What was he so busy with? Did he fight for media freedom? Did he analyze the Law on Public Media Services, because what does the law say? This is simply amazing to me, says the sentence – in the analysis of the Budget Law, the IMF drew attention to the view that citizens' payability is not such that they can pay a fee for public media services and therefore it was proposed to amend the Public Media Service Act to continue in 2016 to pay out of the budget of four billion. No decision by the Management Board on the change of fees has been adopted yet. And is that tax going to be 500 dinars, what is still a valid decision, or is it going to be smaller? Whether it will ensure the functioning of a public service, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that tax will eat all this pension increase of 1.25%, for example. Then it's said that this increase is the biggest thing that's ever been done and that pensions are going to be bigger than ever. When it comes to subsidies, we say – subsidies are less than 0.4% nominal. Real with inflation, that's 2.5%. How are they realized this year? How long is the Minister's debt for subsidies this year, and what does it say in the amendments to the Law on Incentives on Agricultural and Rural Development? What does it say? To be clear, this is what a member of the milk premium law said – the minimum amount of premium milk is seven dinars per litre of milk. The change is like this: the milk premium is made up of up to seven dinars per litre of medicine. What will be the amount, Minister? One dollar. Okay, we need to know. It's legal. So, he could have had at least seven by now, and now he can have one. He can't do more than seven. According to the hectare, the law – a minimum amount of 6,000 dinars per hectare – was minimum. So, 6,000 or more. Current changes, as proposed, amounting to 6,000 dinars per hectare. So, a maximum of 6,000 and now you're bidding on whether it's two, three, four. We'll see? Unfortunately, Minister, one of your colleagues said that everyone praises the World Bank, the IMF, the results of the government and praises in this part of the budget. They are accomplished, but I repeat only on salaries and pensions. There are no other savings. There isn't. Here in the field with you I only want to use the numbers that I get in the material or I can find in the material in your ministry and there are numbers that are different than what you're saying. You said today that the unemployment rate today is 16.7 in absolute numbers. However, it is 750,000, and in 2011 it ended up 753,000 in absolute numbers. This is a table from your website where there's one amazing thing, and that's what I'm going to end up with. I guess in a desire to try these figures to enhance the reality in Serbia, which is unfortunately gray, dark, government in one month, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, she said she hired 252,000 people. So, in the October table, the number of employees on average is 1,715,000. In November the same table was only one difference – 1,967,000 employees. So, you've managed to employ 252,000 people on these tables in one month. I'd like you to show me those 252,000 people. Where they are, who they are, where they are employed, what they do, what they produce. You can check these results.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40977	Now you're done talking. Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40978	Let me start with the last digit, and that's the data from the statistics. You'll get an explanation in detail, the change in methodology is at stake, and that number has no effect on what we're doing here and we're talking about. So, since you don't believe everything I'm telling you anyway, I'm telling you, based on what was written here, that we, within the legal time limit, have, from the moment we were given the opportunity to make a budget, handed over the budget to the government, passed it over to the Parliament. As for the figures you're talking about, you have to decide whether you want to talk about the development side of the budget or you want to talk about something else. I've already said about the development side of the budget, and now I'm going to repeat, there are 40.9 billion that are run as capital expenditures. In addition, there are 12.5 billion at the Ministry of Business, at the Railways 6.5 billion, which is a part of the investment loan for Railways and the Road of Serbia 9.6 billion. When we add these figures together, it's just a transfer of the money "The Railways", "The Ways of Serbia" and the corridors of Serbia that pay those money to their participation in the loans that are investment loans. There's no need to explain that investment loans are capital expenditures. This makes the actual capital expenditure 69.5% of the billion in the budget this year. If, at the level of the 117 billion general state, 6.5 billion are added to the Railways and 12.5 billion that go through the Ministry of Economy directly, then we get a contribution from a state that exceeds 136 billion. It's about the developmental side. You also said in one breath criticism and commendation, so you say – why does the state provide guarantees for investment projects Kostolac etc? Well, that's what we said last year that we were going to leave. We said we'd eliminate the liquidity guarantees and we did it because it was the money that was thrown away. Those were guarantees that were activated. These guarantees affect our debt, but I expect it will never be activated, since there's no need for them to be activated. These are projects that will be financed from permanent sources. These are projects that will allow Serbia to have energy sustainability in the longer term. These are projects that will enable, as we expect greater growth and I will now return to it, allow Serbia to have enough electricity supply and to use its non-renewable sources, now while it can, and not later when we work under the EU's environmental and other constraints. As for growth, I repeat, no one has had a higher growth rate this year than Serbia, among all comparable countries. Increase in growth rate. Why didn't we just put a minus one right away? Because we didn't project minus one. Minus one was designed on the basis of the floods and people doing projections based on trends, and the trend-based projection said that our economy has much more serious problems and that some of these problems have been solved. That's the change that happened. If it's hard for you to accept, it's not for me. So we had a minus 3.7% drop in GDP in the third quarter last year, primarily due to the flood. Negative tendencies started earlier, but this deepening crisis happened due to the flood. Coming out of minus 3.7% of growth to a positive 2% growth in the previous quarter, that's success. Look at the line, the direction. I can show you here, I've got charts, but we don't have the resources to show the charts here. So our break point is the third quarter of last year and then we have constant growth. Let me remind you, I don't know about the other facts, but I do know that this Assembly elected me as finance minister on August 4th, in the middle of that quarter of August 4, 2014. So I have here less than a year and a half of my job as Minister of Finance, and these are the results that I can answer for. Before that, we had plans, less in realisation. The third thing, very important, we are planning and independent for a year now already outside of that programme that supports the IMF and we plan that the deficit will be 1.8% of GDP, and the growth rate is 3.5%. Behind that we stand firm, it's in the fiscal strategy that you got a few days ago. You can see, the strategy also foresees a break point in the participation of debt in the social product below 80%. If we hadn't done this, the projection was that it was going to go to 90%, that we were going to collapse. We're turning that around and we're going to have a reduction and maintenance at Mahstrict level. This means that in five or six years we will drop to 60% and hopefully be in a position of sustainable economic growth, large investments, new employment and the participation of all deficits below 2% and debt below 60% or around 60%. That's what we're designing for you here. That's why I want to tell the citizens that we're on the right track, that everything we've accomplished in relation to before, and I can't measure what happened every year, and I know that in 2000, my colleagues, I was a representative of Serbia-Montenegro at the World Bank and I know that the problems were incomparably greater, but I'm not talking about it, but I'm saying what we inherited last year when we started this programme, what we achieved in a year, and I want support to move forward this way. I don't want us to come back all the time. What we're accomplishing, we've been planning 191 billion, and we're achieving today 58, 50 and a few billion deficits, and we have until the end of the year to pay back the debts that have stood for years, to return to the right path and move forward. We have space to get direct investment, to go back to where we were, we have space to realize growth rates, but not on the basis of debt, not on the basis of growth, demand. I have to correct you, growth, demand, I said sustainable growth and demand, not demand for financial grants and loans. So this is where we invest. That's where we took the loans and financed the direct consumption, and this is where we invest the Bones. It's not consumption, it's energy for future growth. You can't go after it. We've got all the data here. So you have data all about movement. What was the basis for growth in the 2000-2008 period? Based on grants, on duties, on consumption that dragged imports to a level that was not sustainable. So you had a fiscal deficit and consumption that was not sustainable and financed by foreign debts. At that time, with my participation, we modestly negotiated 62-thirds of forgiveness of debt at the Paris and London Club. We were at 20% second in the social product and we got it back to 60%, and now we can't stop it before 77, 78, 79%. When we stop and all these tendencies come true, then we'll reverse the interest of the debt and then we'll meet in the way of getting out of this crisis. We're already seeing good signs, we're already on the hard way out. Why do you remember such a level of defetism and infidelity in all of this? You're barely pulling this line of criticism. I told you last time, we don't fall anymore. And your story was good, while you were falling, that story was completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40979	Thank you. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40980	First of all, because of the public and the citizens of Serbia to explain a few things, because your findings regarding amending and supplementing the law, and about Belgrade on water, show that I would not know the past but also the current legal rules. Therefore, the construction phases existed both in the past and in the current Law on Planning and Construction. What is something that we allow these amendments and additions to the law is primarily a special building permit for preparatory work, only for an object over 30,000 square meters, and that applies primarily to a tower that will be built. You have to admit that so far none in the 168m-high region has been built and that it is necessary to examine certain things within these preparatory papers and to set up spikes, to carry out further examinations. It's something that doesn't work on all other objects and that's why we're making an amendment to the law. But what was amazing to me when you were telling me, that might be even the basic reason why I came forward, in addition to this additional explanation, which is because you mention the words of powerlessness, hidden intentions, plantings, etc. You're talking about, say, unemployment rate. Let me remind you, and primarily Serbian citizens, the Republic Statistics Institute recorded a year and a half ago, when this government was formed, unemployment of over 24%, and today it is 16.7%. It's an official state institution. Secondly, you also said one sentence that I agree with. You said this - one of the things that is appreciated in politics and economy is good planning. You're absolutely right. Then we should also remember that this is the first government in ten and over years that hasn't had any budget rebalances, unlike all the governments you've been to, where you've had three, four or five budget rebalances a year. That's your good planning that's led you to permanent budget rebalances. Then, you made one serious mistake, by my count, you counted yourself. You said this government has been government for four years and we've been in government for four years. Let me remind you, the SNS entered the government on July 27, 2012, which is just over three years away from being four years old. In addition, when you mention and show, as Minister Vujovic, the infidel, said, I think each of us has some references. This government has shown in a year and a half that it can do and that everything it has planned can and can accomplish. These are our references. What we've done in a year and a half, so not for three and a half days, but for a year and a half, so how many roads, how many lines, fiscal consolidation, an arrangement with the IMF from precautionaryness, the Duing Business List, these are our references. So our references give us the right to put this budget in front of you and the citizens of Serbia today and to say – all that we have put out of capital investments, so onward, we will realise, because we have already left behind one positive, first of all, economic growth. I will remind the citizens of Serbia and the MPs that this government has begun to function and that it is working at the moment when negative economic growth was planned, and that today, a year and a half after the formation of this government, we are recording positive economic growth, which is not just us and all the world institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40981	Thank you. The word is made by Ministerial Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic. Here you go. Now you've checked out. Excuse me, now sit down, second minister. I have to release the list, I'm sorry. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic has a word. Our system's blocked. A lot of people checked in, so you have to pull the card out again. You, Snow White, wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40982	Thank you. It's important to pay attention, of course, to a few key things. Unfortunately, what the government has had since 2012, more precisely since August 2012, then here, has been inherited absolute collapse and state and economy. When you look at, say, just monitoring the inflation that was from 2009 to 2012, it shows that in a subtle way or a less subtle way, you put your hand in the citizens' pocket. I'll give it to you on the case of a pension of 30,000 dinars. So inflation since 2008 was 8.6%, in 2009 6.6%, in 2010 10.3%, in 2011 7.0% and in 2012 12.2%. So, when you have one pension of 30,000 dinars in 2012, that pensioner was actually getting 26,400 dinars, essentially, because they grew so much the cost of living and so much was real his purchasing power. In one year, the pensioner lost 43,200 dinars, losing more than one pension only because of inflation, only because of inflation. This inflation is 2% in 2015, 1.7% in 2014, 2.2% in 2013. So, you only increased the purchasing power of our population by inflation since 2013, and by that period people who had received, even the most modest ones, lost more than 10% on average for these four years in their incomes, in 2012, 12.2%. Of course, when we talk about GDP growth, we from 2012, which recorded minus 1% of the growth, entered in 2013 by 2.6%. Of course, then it came down because of the flood, but already in 2015 we have plus 0.8% and next year we expect to say, with significant growth. When you compare it with the countries of the region, it can never be fair because, you know, when Serbia, whose economy is much stronger and larger than those countries where the opening of one plant can affect more significant GDP growth, it is not comparable at all. But it's not for comparison to what we've experienced in these great floods, when our electricity system has been significantly damaged, which draws a large percentage of GDP growth. In the coming year, we will show, of course, and in the coming years, if this trend continues, with the attracting of investors, there is a serious chance that in the next two and three years of linear GDP growth, we will strengthen our economy and reach the countries of Europe, which are not all in such good shape, we are not, of course, looking forward to it, but you will see that Serbia is able to monitor its economic activities and much more developed countries. First of all, we are trying to reach EU countries that are in Eastern Europe, then, of course, Central European countries. That's what we do anyway. As for the Ministry of the Interior, by pawning my colleagues at the Ministry, we tried to make sure in the previous period all the debts that amounted to billions in the previous years, to return everything we owed, but to invest new investments, to repair the situation and equipment, materials, combat vehicles, to show that this could be done very effectively. We have also provided money for the following year, thanks to the Prime Minister and the Government, depending on the possibility of the state, to pay for the one-time aid to members of the Ministry, police officers above all, and we want to show that we also care for this category of our population that is very important to our country. The police are taking it seriously and responsibly. There's a serious fight against corruption going on. This also shows that, since I took over the Ministry of the Interior, no indictment has been dropped, nor has the court against whom we have filed a criminal complaint and the prosecution has not legally released the indictment. So, in a serious and responsible way, you approach the fight against corruption and crime, which is very important because it's a framework to strengthen our economy, it's a framework that restores trust in our country, and it's a framework that allows investors to come here, not afraid that someone will ask them for money for what they have the right to do under the law. I think this government is working in a serious and responsible way and will also show that Serbia has something to look forward to next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40983	Here you are, Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40984	Thank you. Honorable MPs have been asked questions by the Minister of Agriculture. I use the opportunity to answer specific questions and to say at first that when it comes to agriculture and farmers, it is often the concern of a declarative character. This government really doesn't help agriculture declareably, but essentially. It helps with a series of measures and, if you will allow me, I would only like to mention some of these measures that the government took in the previous period. In addition to the agrarian budget that you adopted last year and this year we adopt, I have to say that the agrarian budget has not been reduced, so those payments to farmers have remained practically at the same level, even this year have been mild and increased. That's number one. But we must in no way forget that last year, the government identified additional funds for the payment of subsidies to farmers. These are the backlogs of previous years that have been transferred from year to year. Last year, an additional 4.5 billion dinars were identified at this time, which were re-paid to our agricultural producers' accounts. What are you talking about today and asking: “How will it be next year when we have additional requirements this year? “ that’s right. This is the size of the government and the size in terms of understanding the Ministry of Finance which understood the additional demands of farmers, so besides those that could be met with a defined budget, which you adopted. We've had more demands. So the government wouldn't let those people down. On the contrary, it has decided to grant all notified requests and that all applicants shall be paid. That's an extra 9.7 billion dinars. Please, I think it really deserves every respect and deserves to be told loud and clear to the citizens of Serbia and our farmers. You say: "What will be the premium for milk, for in the new changes and additions of the law it is said to be up to seven dinars?" I say, there will be seven dinars in this year, and it will be that way for the years to come. This prefix that says "to" is actually for the reason that we have a plan, and that's the farmer's request, to start working as soon as possible by a national reference laboratory. We managed in the last year and a half to get this lab started, you know that its formation started in 2004, that it waited for us to do the job until the end and that it finally started to work. The farmers want to be rewarded. Those who produce extra-quality milk, those who pay due attention to all those issues of health care and safety when it comes to this extremely important product are asked to be adequate and rewarded precisely for these reasons is this prefix, up. In doing so, I also want to tell you that this government and this ministry have put a special accent on the development of livestock and that we have results in this sense, and how we put the accent. By significantly increasing the yields for cattle farming, because we found it at a historic minimum. How did we increase the releases? So, in addition to this milk premium that was paid in seven dinars, we increased last year by quality breeding cows from 20 to 25 grand. We subsidize loans for the purchase of quality animals, so now our farmers can get animals at a fixed interest rate of 4%. We also allocate significant funds for equipment in the processing, so also in the milk sector and in the meat sector. If you allow it, and I just want to do with what the government has done and what it does to help and support agriculture, I want to say some of the results that are evident. So, we have stopped the decline in the number of cattle, we have increased that fund, we are not satisfied with the increase, but it has increased, it has increased by slightly more than 2% and not only has there been an increase in stock in terms of, above all, the number of milk cows, the production of milk has increased. Also, 2.8% increased beef production, we increased exports. Last year we had a surplus of over a billion, over two and a billion and 400 euros we exported agricultural and food products. This year in the first 10 months, we also have positive growth, we already have a surplus of 80m euros now. So exporting two billion 142m euros. I expect that in these two remaining months we will have results that we will also be proud of and that will be greater than the results we had in the previous year. I mean, we win, we have support, we have help, but in an adequate way, we fight back. I have to say that in other sectors we have achieved excellent results, you know that in this year we are champions in the world for the production of raspberries, last year our yield was 60,000 tonnes, this year 100,000 tons, we have record production and apples, we have excellent vegetable production. There has been a sharp increase in exports of these species to the Russian Federation. So, it does not stand at all for your claim that farmers will be damaged, rather farmers will not be damaged and we will continue to work with our strength to help agriculture and that this positive trend that I have now highlighted will be continued and in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40985	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40986	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly in favour of and clarification of what Mr Vujovic was saying about Kostolic. I have to point out that this is a project that is only cost-effective by its definition, it's an investment of $713 million with a grace period, namely a loan line with a grace period of seven years and a repayment period of up to 13 years, which is fully dimensional in terms of electricity generation, so that every dinar, or dollar, of that line will be returned from the investment itself. The claim should also serve that the EPS is absolutely ready to realise such large projects, as it has paid its participation in the realisation of the 105m-dollar project itself from its own sources. And as an explanation of what Mr Vujovic was talking about, this is without any dilemma about a technical, technologically completely modern facility, it is a supercritical facility, i.e. a thermal facility that will operate in accordance with the highest energy, or standards of environmental protection, which, despite the construction of a thermal power plant, involves both deforestation and other segments that require a directive on environmental protection and which will work while in that base, or on the hoofs, wood is coal. So there is no need to question at all how long Serbia will be able to use this thermal capacity. We will be able to use all the thermal capacities we are building now and which we are now remounting and which we are harmonising with environmental standards as long as there is coal in Serbia. According to current data on the wooden spear, it's almost until 2060, if we take into account that we are also doing new research where Cirikovac is also there as a potential coal site, that period can be extended. I have to comment on what Mr Đurić was also talking about, regarding the district heating systems and their price setting and reminding what Mr Đurić knows, but for the sake of the general public, I apologize to Đurisic, the district heating systems as a communal activity are located in the authority of local self-government. The government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Mining and Energy, only adopts a regulation defining the way electricity prices are established, the price of district heating. It is true that in the past few quarters there has been a reduction in gas prices in that variable scale of the costs of district heating systems. It is also true that during the previous period when there was a significant increase in the price of gas, heat, or power plants did not take advantage of the space the regulation allows them to increase prices because such a policy was the government of the Republic of Serbia. We did a serious analysis with the association of heat and with Belgrade power plants and came up with data that all heats across Serbia or kept that price level that was before this gas price drop, or something dropped that price of gas. Those who did not significantly lower the heating price had a very clear explanation. In the fourth quarter of 2014, in the first quarter of 2015, when the gas price grew, they did not raise the price. So now the de facto had nothing to bring down. It was a case of Belgrade power plants and with the mayor we had meetings on the topic. Simply, their price was and remained in accordance with the regulation and there is absolutely no such thing as to deny the right to build or any costs that go unwarranted to their account.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40987	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40988	I assume you were just confused, Mr. Djurisic, when you said the culture budget was down 50%. You probably wanted to praise that the subsidies were cut by 50% because last year it was set aside for RTS and RTS, Tanjug and Radio Yugoslavia over eight million, namely 8 billion 983 million, and this year four billion, so it was a savings of nearly five billion and it was probably just a lapus. I'm saying this for the public, because anyone who's seen the budget knows it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40989	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40990	I know that some members of the former regime are quite complicated. They don't like to remind themselves of the time they led the country, but we need to know where we're going, so we know where we're going now, and we know where we're going and where we're going. I'm not going to try at all, here's what we're going to do. We're going to ignore all the statistics that were in force during the former regime and that are still in force today because those aren't the rules that we made up, these are the rules that have been set up in the EU and that apply to us, when it comes to the labour force poll. So it was in the past regime, as it is today, so it was 25.5 unemployment in 2012, and today the unemployment rate is 16.7 are the same rules then, the same rules now. But we'll completely ignore it, like it doesn't matter, like it doesn't exist. Let's speak the language of numbers that can't be counterfeited by money. How much money is in the register, and who brought that money in the register? I guess we all understand that. However, let us say that the revenues from the contributions they made to the PIO Fund in 2012 amounted to 287.3 billion dinars. That was 51.1% of the Fund's total income at the time. Today, 2015, the fund's income on 8 December is 334 billion dinars, which is 12.4 billion dinars more than we planned. So this can't be falsified. Either some extraterrestrials that don't exist, and some strange force is paying off money by stealing, or they show up like people on the PIO fund records who pay off their contributions. You need to know one more thing. Salaries have been cut in the public sector, which is the most valuable payment of contributions. So there is an even lower level of contribution and it would be expected that state grants will be higher. It would be expected that more money should be paid as a grant to keep pensions on a regular basis, and this year we withdrew 12.6 billion dinars less donations because we had an increase in incomes at the PIO Fund. So this can't be falsified. This is money, the amount of money in the state register is significantly higher, even than we planned, and it's only possible that some people with a name and a last name were hired. There's no one else. So, get out of the statistics, here's a pure math that can't be falsified. I can't understand that just bad news is good news. I will remind you that here, from this House, it was a terrible enthusiasm when the European Commission's report came in saying that the Labour Act was non-European, that it was bad, that it was uncoordinated, that it was anti-democratic, etc. Here they rejoiced, the announcements came out, but then they turned the other side of the paper in which it was written, but the law that was passed at the time of the government of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40991	The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40992	Ambassador Djurisic mentioned that the salary law has been pending for a year. I'd like to make it right, there's been a bar waiting on the salary bill for six years. It is said that when this government was formed and we did, I first acknowledge it to be a law on wages arranged, about a year ago, until the end of 2014, we were starting from the fact that the draft done in the previous government had brought the task almost to an end and that we would be able to do so only with political will and to complete it. Only after we have taken this business as seriously as it deserves, have we seen the fact that a serious law on wages and a wage system that will constantly and permanently lead Serbia to a fairer profit ratio throughout the public sector requires one infrastructure, so to speak, and knowledge and institutions that will be able to bring it out, so that we are committed to building this infrastructure. It brings to an end the collection of catalogues of jobs which, I say, are at the core of that infrastructure, it is also about strengthening the register of employees and capacities to record and monitor how exactly they are paid and all other contributions and additions that go with them. As I have recently explained, and it is important that citizens understand this, we have changed the strategy that this wage reform is now brought forward phasely, by first setting up the Payment System Act, and then by adopting sub-sector laws that will be applicable, but which will be based on institutional basis, which will allow us to be a permanent, quality job and that the Government is no longer so susceptible, neither this nor any other trade and pressure, but that profits can be paid in accordance with any criteria that we can all agree to be just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40993	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: When will I get the right to the word, the replica? Three ministers mentioned me. I'm misread. You think I don't have the right to a replica, and I've been mentioned so many times? ) When you meet the conditions for replication. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure how much the minister speaks, so that you should receive a replica, only if he speaks on the phone about you or someone did not understand you and everyone understood you. Don't yell. Let your colleagues... You have 23. You're on the list, so you'll continue your discussion. These were just answers. Convince me, but after Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40994	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not happy with the Prime Minister explaining the budget, not that I want to say that they don't know, but simply some colleagues who want to deny the figures that the ministers today have placed are wrong. So how were the ministers supposed to explain the budget today? They say – there is an gulf and a casting side. Now it's the end of the year and we see how much money we've spent if from individual positions there's a huge amount of money not spent, that position is shrinking by that number from 3 to 5%, and the citizens of Serbia when they listen, they think you've now reduced by culture, I don't know so many billions, for this so many billions, so you have to explain a little bit better. Furthermore, some of the colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, do not accept that the unemployment rate in Serbia is lower now. It was in 2012, they say 25%, today 16 comas is something. As the minister should explain, when Mr. Vulin spoke, he should have said – here today the PIO fund has more money 12 billion, so much and so much, and that money is not from countries, I don't know, some humanitarian actions than the number of employees. So the number of employees has increased, and you immediately deny those who say – it is not true that these statistics are derived from this or that. What else is important? When it comes to agricultural producers. I don't mean to say you don't know, but simply for those who listen, for ordinary people, it's not clear enough. When it comes to agriculture, it should also be explained to farmers, specifically in Vojvodina. There are some who are for the bill and some who don't. Let's see who they are for the bill that the government has proposed and who they are against the bill. I don't think it's transparent enough to figure out those who are against it, that it's actually not at their expense and we need to talk to the agricultural producers as much as possible. Furthermore, I will not say that you abuse, even the Prime Minister and Minister, you have forgotten at all, Prime Minister, what happened in Russia and China. It was a topic in Serbia for only one day. In Russia, businessmen, over 200 businessmen, were admitted at the highest level. Of those 200 businessmen, 100 and something did work, they made contracts, and that was not the case in the past years. Also, here, you came from China, you had a press conference after the summit, and there were no questions at all at the press conference that were vital to the citizens of Serbia. Of course, there must be freedom of the media, but also none of the questions were – what the German Foreign Minister told you, which is a very important opinion, and we heard what Bundestag said in Germany, what other representatives of other major countries, Mr Keri from America, told you, are we going to increase exports to those countries, whether they will bring investors, but rather we were dealing with some topic that might be interesting. Then they say the government is spinning some issues. I'm sure the government and President Vukic don't do spin, because I was a personal observer at both conferences, and in Moscow I was a part of the work. There I saw at what level we had all these meetings and what was promised. When I'm with Russia, Mr. Prime Minister, you can't call Putin and Medvedev every day to do some work, but businessmen and politicians, both the position of the opposition and the opposition, I guess the opposition has someone in Russia, and to take advantage of, here we are, in particular, not taking advantage of where sanctions were imposed by Europe by Russia, Russia Europe, now, with the Turkish problem, that we are the first to import into Russia what they have imported from Turkey. That's what every one of us should do. No one's ever done that today. Here, the session started at 10 o'clock, ministers are trying to justify something, don't make excuses, but report how the citizens will understand you. The law on local self-government must be reduced to this size and number of workers, there must be a criterion. If there are public companies in local self-government that earn their own money, if they are contractors, if they have no subsidy, if they are contractors and do services to local self-government, there is no criterion for the number of residents in the city and for everything to be, but simply that they have no harm to those who do something and to be in a group with those who do nothing and only look for Belgrade to help them. I hope this is my message. It's not criticism, it's to look at it, and I'm sure Mrs. Corry Widowsky will look at it, too, because it's in her vault. So we, Mr. Prime Minister, are not using Serbian international popularity at all. Each and every one of us, wherever it is, has to say that, here, China has taken you to the highest level. Why didn't the president of China ride with another government president from another country? How did you choose a small Serbia? What can we do to help China? Nothing. But your visit helped me, I announced myself to the Chinese Embassy, and yesterday I had a meeting with a Chinese economic adviser, where we agreed that I had to finish something for a few cities in Serbia, thanks to you, because you created good conditions. All the Chinese media have said that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic was at the highest level accepted by all the government presidents who were there. We can complain, complain, but it's enough in Serbia to just complain. Let's do something ourselves, let's specifically say what we did ourselves. Who can fill the budget? This budget is similar to the positions of all the budgets that have been made for years. So the budget can only fill new jobs and increase production or products produced in Serbia. How do we get to these new jobs? We have to send every day everything there is, when it comes to industrial zones across Serbia's cities, to each city for a memo to go away. I write at least 20 memos every day. Now I've asked Berlusconi to see me. Never mind, he's not the Prime Minister, but he'll see me, so you know. I will not represent Jagodina there, but will represent Serbia, to praise Serbia for respecting all its international obligations, as Serbia expects much more co-operation, as it expects support for the Brussels Agreement, not for Serbia to implement all its agreements and signatures, and that Kosovo Albanians do not care, and that no one says yesterday in Gorazdevec and interrupts what happened, except for one international politician. Is that terrorism? You know what, I feel sorry for the French civilians who died, but my soul hurts for the Serbs in Gorazdevec who every day, when they go to bed at night to sleep, think about whether they'll be awake or alive in the morning. No one's talking about it. All of us who deal with politics, whether we are a position or an opposition, should talk about it, is the protection of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not going to say we're passive, but we're simply waiting for someone else to help us, I don't know. You may be angry or not, but I've criticized these great forces several times. When we were in Russia, the next day a German-speaking state told the Albanians - well, now you're a little chilly and Albanians are throwing tear gas, entering the assembly, the whole world is looking at it, it's terrorism. And they failed to implement the agreement, to form a community of Serb municipalities, to form a war crimes court, etc. It's a theme for all of us. It is not just a topic for Vulin, for Alexander Vukic and for Ivica Dacic, who was one of the best chairmans of all time the OSCE has ever had, because this is what OSCE representatives say not only in Serbia, but anywhere in Europe in the world, because we are a generation that has felt this gogoth where more citizens in Europe feel. We are also great hosts when it comes to asylum seekers, but it's not our fault that Germany has converted into numbers, so now we're in a difficult situation, I don't know, at the border of people waiting there without being able to get through Serbia, etc. It is good that Serbia is providing such a service and it is good that you do not promise that we will build houses for them, but it is also costing, it is a huge number of countries and Europe, that is, Europe has to help Serbia a little more. Mr. Prime Minister, JS will vote for this budget, but I ask you that in one of the most common ways when someone says something is bad, it's not bad, it's good, but with a lack of understanding because, let's not get angry, but here 90% of the MPs have never filled in a source for payment of something. Don't mind me, you weren't businessmen, you weren't, now we can't all discuss. We can discuss it, but how do we understand what we're saying? The opposition has the right to criticise, but on the other hand ministers must say – No, you are wrong. It is not enough to say just – take the statistical data, look; but show the number as Mr. Vulin has shown, but he did not say until the end, that this filling is done by the number of new employees. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: He said.) I may not have heard that, but if I haven't heard it, which understands well, I apologize if you said so, you haven't told me about this percentage. It doesn't matter. If you've said it, say it a hundred times, what's wrong with you? Repeat, I only hired two thousand people in Jagodina. Give it up now, you're free to go. Give it up for me when I say something. In Jagodina alone, I hired two thousand people. I watch every third day the Prime Minister opens up some factories somewhere. How are we gonna get to the surplus? By bringing investors and giving them permission in one day. Here's Mrs. Zorana in Jagodina, and we've been giving permission for one day for six years and before she passed the new law. I don't need the law and the law obliges me to honor a foreign investor. He's applying today. He's getting a building permit tomorrow. Maybe it's a difference than it is in other cities, but they can just get out that it's a bad law. Now the law is what it is, and when you receive a foreign investor, host it, deny all those stories of conviction with which he came to your country, then the job is 90%. Here, at the end of the day, Prime Minister, let me tell you that I'm glad this budget was made. This budget is both social and developmental, which will not be abolished by the opposition where ordinary people are concerned, to make sure they're safe, and whether it's not enough for us to just realize that the budget is good. We need to do more and make this budget more real than planned. If we all go from tomorrow to tomorrow to work, or something else, don't get it wrong, MPs who are on permanent duty and pay in parliament have to work in parliament, not that there are 10 MPs in parliament, and now that you're here, we're all inside. I don't get paid here. So you must be at work. I suggest you introduce that... Can a worker in a factory not go... Marianne, I'm not exaggerating, I am. Can he take the salary, Prime Minister, and say, every day he has a meeting with the union? Okay, there's a union, but it can't be every day because it costs something. Don't let my fellow MPs resent me. Money in Serbia must be earned. Every job has to be respected. It will be much better for the citizens of Serbia, when they see that it is full of halls, that we all take care of them, etc. Excuse me, fellow MPs, this isn't an attack on you. I fought first, I don't know if you remember, the journals have to be lifted. You can't get 2,000 diaries if you come to work, because that doesn't get to be the employee who goes to the factory, and thank God, we cut it off. But here, make a criterion and you'll see that every day it's full of fat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40995	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40996	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the budget is the most important law we've been talking about in a year. The budget is a book through which all our political, economic, social and other spheres are broken. The budget as the most important law is also an opportunity to see what results we've achieved, what's wrong, what's what's good, what's what we have to do to make it better in the next period. Today, unfortunately, I couldn't from the beginning, because of the obligations I had as Prime Minister, I've been present since the beginning of this debate. I am very sorry, but I have prepared the presentation and I will try to sum up everything that is most important in this Budget Law and what is very important and try to respond to the expert remarks made by the Fiscal Council, without speaking very much about the praises that are always welcome and which are rare from the Fiscal Council. Why did I say this? I said this because in our public it's hard to grasp which side the criticisms come from, because there are on-call critics, and what the great Roosevelt said, it's that fame is never on them, but it's the glory of those who are in the arena, who are fighting, who are washed both by mud and sweat and blood, but who are every day solving problems and who are fighting, and not those who each day earn as cybizers, and the result is none. In line with that, I have some good news for you. Finally, tonight, we got Washington's "Batch Air" confirmation and the possibility that our planes, so, by our plane and our crew, would fly to the U.S., and it would be... I keep that paper here. [[Applause]] It's been betrayed tonight, and it's the first time we've ever been on our plane, and our crew will be able to fly to the U.S. after almost 30 years. I think he's saying enough, and you must know, in such conditions, where terrorism seriously bites the system of the modern world, it's not easy to get that license and that it's a serious recognition for our country and for security and security, but also for the professionalism of the best company in the region, I'm talking about air carriers such as "Er Serbia" and the best and fastest growing airport in the region and a little wider than this region, I would even say in Central and Eastern Europe, which is Belgrade's Nikola Tesla Airport. What's important about the Budget Law? Many say whether it's restrictive, whether it's developmental. Every budget has to be developmental, but it has to keep the fiscal deficit under control. This budget, I'd like to define as good, as well measured, as well prepared and as a bit conservative. What does that mean when I say a little conservative? That means exactly what the Fiscal Council stressed, where I agree with them and thank them for that very good assessment, which is that the revenues are a good calculation, and I'm going to say to you that they're not conservatively all calculated. They said there was no polishing, no extra polishing, that's how the budget is done, that's how income is done, and I'm going to tell you that we showed something that is more serious and better preparedness and a different relationship than ever before, which is seen by the results, in the end line, achieved in 2015, to which I'll come back a little later. In fact, they've raised some doubts on the dissuasive side, and we'll come to that, and I'll read you everything, every penny that's going to be spent on guarantees, on budget guarantees, and on where and what subsidies we're going to give to individual firms, in dinar, so that there's nothing that's intransparent or something that stays secret. But what is very important about income, I want to tell you that in October, thanks to our good decisions and digitisation that we started to implement both the introduction and 4G networks, etc., we managed to charge 13 billion dinars, i.e. 105m euros from the most important telecommunications companies in Serbia. We didn't take that money. We surprised them by asking them, Rasim asked them not to pay us that money and not to pay us that money until 2016. People couldn't believe it. People with Protestant ethics from Norway called my cabinet and asked if Mr. Vukic knew what it was, why don't you want the money right away, that's your money? I answered, and I said – because we don't want to show ideal balances or I don't know what kind of balances we want to save, and we want to spend that money later. People asked me three times, not believing it was possible. So, we didn't show those budget revenues at all. Don't just talk to us again like last year about those-offs or the one-time payments we had in the budget, and we predicted 28 billion less for this year, if you noticed. I'm telling you it won't be five billion less. So we're going to have more than 20 billion just on that basis more on the income side than we predicted. But I love it when we predict less and less. I always like to predict a worse result and make it better. We'll get back to that. So, in January, we'll have 13 billion that we can get every day because that's how we asked the people of the telecommunications companies to pay us. And as you can see in the draft budget law, those 13 billion are nowhere, they don't exist. These 13 billion will serve us as additional income and as security from those expenditures, from those concerns that I will talk about later, because there are two important things that, of course, we have certain fears and everyone in Serbia seems to have fears about these two things. These two things, here, right now, are the rationalization of the public sector, are we going to be able to spend everything in action, and there's absolutely right fiscal advice about that kind of fear. Another kind of fear is 17 companies, especially 11 companies that we have managed to destroy over the past 30 years, destroyed and now we have to solve them. I'm only going to give you an example of a company so that someone doesn't know, because they like people who do public work, especially in politics, to salt their minds without offering us any solution, find us, who pleases God, for RTB Bor. All geniuses please help us find a solution to RTB Bor. When the price of copper is 4.5 thousand instead of seven thousand, as we had, when all the prices of commodity in the world fall, when the brand of oil is 39.02, when our iron-ores also drop dramatically again. I'm just asking people to help us with this, because I'm telling you right now, we're gonna have serious problems, because we can't shut down RTB Bor, we can't close down RTB Bor, it's being asked or expected of us. I'm telling you now -- we can't close because that closes all of eastern Serbia and an entire city. So these are the two risks that exist. That's why we made sure of these extra incomes that you don't see here at all. That's why we were doing it in an uncomparably more serious way, and that's why we were always getting ready, so I repeatedly said I was bigger IMF than the IMF, and that's why I like the Fiscal Council, because I'm going to quote them last year that the deficit, when we predicted that the deficit would be 192 billion dinars, they went out and said that they were afraid the deficit would be 230 billion. Our deficit with all that we're taking, the debts of the former regime, which we've been left with, from debts to the NIS, from debts to "Gasporom" from Petrochemy, from debts that the former regime has made to our military pensioners, we'll all take over this year, a good part of these debts to pay with all these deficits, not that it won't be 192 billion, but it certainly won't cross 80 billion, if I'm not mistaken, and with all these payments. Wait, instead of being 230 billion, and we have here the speeches of all the MPs of last year, interestingly, you'll see the incredible correctness that they've all missed what they've been saying. All their fears had not been realized, and almost everything I said had been accomplished better and in greater scope than I had announced. So, at 230 billion, it's not 230 billion, but with all this taking over, without taking over the debt to the Russians, without paying the debt to the Russians and without paying that debt to the military pensioners, our deficit wouldn't be 61.62 billion, so more than triple what would be good, than what the IMF approved. So that's your exact data, there's no game, there's no lies, there's no fraud. These are the data you read, these are the data found by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the EBRD, the EIB and everyone else. That's why Serbia is so praised. Because there's public finances, for the first time, another pharmacy, but they're close to being like a pharmacy. These are the things we've managed to achieve. What are the results that we've done and what is what I think next year is crucial? We were able to achieve three out of six years ago, the worst of which was in 2009 with 3.4% decline in social product, so by a negative growth of 3.4%, which is dramatic... When you have a greater minus 1% is dramatic, and when you have a minus 3.4, it's a disaster for the country. This happened in 2009 and two more years we had a decline, in 2013, we had growth, but we had a bad one because of the flood and because of our problems with minus 1.8%, 2014. Then we set out to reduce the fiscal deficit. We're getting to the first big score. We're pulling the earth out of recession and a constant decline in social product. The country will have a plus 0.9, plus 1% at the end of the year. What's this about? I'll remind you, the forecast of the IMF, the forecast of all MPs and all the people of the former regime was that it would be minus one, minus one-and-a-half, and the fiscal council would say that. They told you it was going to be 2015 minus one, minus 1.5, maximum good minus 0.5. We managed to get to plus one. Why is this good news for Serbian citizens? Because over the next four years, I guarantee the citizens of Serbia that we will never have less than plus two, which means dynamic growth, high growth, faster employment, and that means further reduction of unemployment, means higher wages and higher pensions. We signed an agreement with the IMF not to change salaries and pensions for three years. After only a year, we managed to increase pensions by 60% of pensioners and 40% of pensioners in a small and partial return to what we had to subtract to keep the fiscal deficit under control. We did the same thing with public sector wages. It's a rare success. We managed to get the country out of recession, introduce it into years of dynamic growth. I expect 2016 to be over 2%, 2017, to go over 3%, and if we were able to keep it at the same level in 2018 and 2019, then at a high speed and significant acceleration we would achieve the arrival of European Union countries that are more developed than us and who cannot have such growth. Romania had the highest growth of 3.8%. They can't have countries that are not members of the European Union, like Switzerland, because when they have plus 0.5, it's huge growth. Small countries can have little population growth. We're not a small country, we're a middle country by size, by territory and by population. Compared to other EU countries, this growth is vastly over 3%. If we keep it for many years, Serbia is on an extraordinary path and for a long, long time, it will not face the problems of the economic crisis. We cannot see the crisis, but the risk is still seen in the rationalisation of the public sector and I see risks within these largest companies that employ 21,000 people, but not only because of the employment of 21,000 people, but also because these companies treat some of our biggest resources, they represent some of our largest aces, such as RTB Bor. So these are the things we're going to have to take care of in the next period. In this year we managed to fix the business environment, from 91st place our Serbia moved to 59th place. I'll remind you that's what I was talking about in the National Assembly and that I promised you that. Some of them laughed at me. Many laughed at me in public, said it was impossible, that it was not true, but a good team that led, in that regard, I fought and controlled, Zorana and Vujovic managed to make a move. I'm telling you, next year we'll try to get into the first 40 countries in the world. We have succeeded in many areas to make progress. Have you noticed that every day we've heard about missing direct investment, especially foreign direct investment? Despite the fact that this year is a fiscal consolidation, when you can't expect a huge inflow of foreign direct investment, this is a better year than it was, better than before, we're going to be investing at a billion and 500 to a billion and 600 million. We ended up with 10 months a billion and 372 million. So I'm telling you everything, as you can see, very, very precise figures around which there are no lies, fraud or different sightings of things. We have made great progress in the development of infrastructure, traffic networks, and I think that progress is far-reaching for people in many villages, villages, but what is important for our positioning in Europe and the world are major road networks, corridors, highways, railway lines. Let's start with air traffic. The Belgrade Airport, which was only two years ago worth a 30-year concession, could have received between 100m and 120m euros. Today, we can certainly get 500m euros, it has built up its value. We had a national company that was a joke, not always, but in the last twenty years, a joke for the region and for the whole of Europe, and today is the most powerful national Airlines in the whole region, and beyond that. In order for our citizens to be more proud, flights to America will have Serbia and only another country in the region. No one in the region has a flight to America anymore. When I say it in the region, I'm not talking about the countries of the former Yugoslavia. There is no one flying to America, but I am talking about the Member States of the European Union. One Greece has no flights to America, neither Athens can fly to America, but you will be able to fly from Belgrade and you will be able to fly broad-scale Serbian planes and the Serbian crew will be able to be. I think it is something that is proud of the citizens of Serbia. Next, let's see what we've done around the roads, to analyze, because when roads open, people are usually photographed, but they're never finished building those roads. We recently opened a 27km highway from Vlad's Han to Donji Neradovec. In May, we open 5.8 kilometers of Grabovnica-Grdelica. We open in May of the month Ljig-Preljina 40 kilometers, from Ljig to Cačka. Here we have a problem, we have managed to finish Ub-Lajkovac 12.5 kilometers, but we do not have a complete Lykovac-Ljig stock and we will finish this by the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017. We now sign a contract for Surcin-Obrenovac in order not to go from field to field, because there must be a new bridge built over the Sava, it costs about two hundred nine million euros 17.8km, so precisely because of the bridge is something more expensive. We managed to bargain and make it a much better, much more favourable price than the one offered at the beginning, and if we can finish it, and we will finish the average Red River-Statition-Pirot-Dimitrovgrad, so, east leg by March 2017, we will have for the first time significantly more kilometers of highway than the Republic of Croatia, which will remind you was a miracle. We'll have about two hundred kilometers of highways more than Croatia. You will be able to go to the border with Bulgaria, to the border with Macedonia, you will be able to reach Cačka from Belgrade on the highway, to the border with Croatia and to the border with Hungary. We still have to extend the highway to Požega. We'll finish this by the end of 2018 because it's the hardest part of the Ovčar-Cablar ravine, if I'm not mistaken for Zoran, it's about three hundred thirty, three hundred forty million euros. So it's not a lot of miles, but it's the hardest way, 30 kilometers, but it's the most difficult way to go through central and western Serbia. So we go out, on the one hand we extend down the rest of 107km towards Bolari, towards the Montenegrin border and on the other hand we continue towards Uzic and Visegrad and Užic, Zlatibor, Novi Varoša and Prepolje. So these are the things we manage to do, and we have had more results by the end of 2016, so in two and a half years of government work than in the previous 45 years, in two and a half years more done and done, than in the previous 45 years, someone liked it or not. As for Railways, we haven't progressed since 1884 when King Milan, who, of course, together with his son, managed to force him to abdicate because we weren't satisfied because he first created a standing army, a professional army, was the first to create and build a railway in Serbia which, up to a year ago, went the same speed as the railways in the Republic of Serbia 120, 130 years later, so we managed to get him to abdicate. Then we killed his son and threw him over the terrace in a heroic way with all of his wife, destroyed their seed, I guess they didn't do us good enough, they didn't save us the Hilandar that we already resold to the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian monastery Zograf, so we showed our gratitude. But I like to admire these results that you can't talk about as models. Please, all Serbian citizens, go see this 27km runway we opened between Vlad's Han and Donji Neradovci. Check these dates I was talking about because it was never a problem with our experts, it was never a problem with the contractors, it was always a problem with the lack of finance, it was always a problem with the huge fiscal deficit, in that we wanted to cheat on the performers, in that we wanted to cheat on the public. Now we're not cheating on anyone, everything we say during a certain period of time we manage to finish. We're working on the Mali Krsna-Palanka track 35 kilometers away, and you're not going to go 30 and 20 kilometers per hour for 120 kilometers per hour anymore. Also, Cupria-Paracin, we are also opening through the Russian loan of Stara Pazova-Novi Sad, we are going to build Budapest-Belgrade. Before the end of the year, we'll be the cornerstone, and we'll be doing other things when the real construction season starts. We're going in on serious work, that's if I'm not wrong in early March, and that's the stuff we're doing about it. These are serious and these are good results, but I am getting these great things that are of great importance to our country, which put us on the road, the infrastructure map of Europe and the world, very happy when we build and build a bridge in the Družetići, when we build a road in Lepojevici after 70 years and when you see in the municipality of Nova Varoš Serbian peasants and hosts who are 70 years later, and some today are waiting to see that road and say that the sun has branched, then it's great happiness and great satisfaction. We'll keep going, we'll spend more money. We spent less on capital outflows than we expected, but not as much as it looked, things got better in the second half of the year, and I expect these separations to be much bigger in the next period. What I think is very important and where we should be grateful is understood by the Ministry of Finance, but also the National Bank of Serbia that we had an inflation of 1.4% compared to 2012 or 2011 where 12% passed, guaranteeing the safety and stability of every citizen of this country, for everyone who is already in Serbia on the story, those habits that we used to complain every day about how some prices are increasing, and then you look at and you see that that's not quite so. When you see that on an annual level, which is not always good for us, we would like inflation in the government to be four to five percent, it would be better for us in terms of public debt, in terms of GDP and in terms of many other things, but we have failed to achieve that inflation to be greater. For safety and stability, it's always good for that inflation to be the lowest and we've managed to ensure that. What I think is very important is to remove any suspicion about the transparency of spending money and that's the thing that hurt me at the Fiscal Council. I'm going to read today from A to S every penny that's going to be spent, that you can see it, that you can see it from the Fiscal Council, because nobody here just steals money, but you know every penny according to the contracts that are signed, how it's spent. So paying by budget guarantees 2016 is a total of 32 billion 33 million. It's the ones they talked about, almost 300 million, that's our deficit to know, which is included in the deficit we talked about. The biggest inclusion in the deficit is "Srbigas", the total amount on the 613 and 27 billion 15 million 692 thousand, but it is included in the deficit of 17 billion and 878 million 944 thousand, "The Railways of Serbia", six billion 957 million 756, there is the same amount that is included in the deficit, JAT under the contract of a billion and 242 million and Galenika, which represents a serious problem for us is two billion and 82 million. That's a total of 28 billion 162 million. What we have for the reserve is 150 million and "Smederevo Iron" three billion 721 million. All absolutely accurate, as you have seen, a total of 32 billion 33 million. That's what some said was hidden. Is there anything here that we should be hiding or not, we can do this by reason, we can put through some amendment, in any way we can do it, because we're not ashamed of anything, we're doing everything transparently, we're doing good for the people, we have good results, and we want to show every penny to the people how it's being spent. And the second paragraph, since you said there was something non-transparent, I want to read to the citizens of Serbia, to know how their money is spent. We have big contracts and subsidies to enterprises that are once partly state-owned, sometimes completely private, I think we're building a good position for Serbia on this issue. And you'll also see some new factories coming, and for some new ones we've allocated money to the Ministry of Industry, where you see them in a special division, we can't talk about names yet, but Shabac gets one big factory, right, Dushana, out of 1700 people from a big and important country. The Serbian government pays for it and we pay serious subsidies for it. It gets Novi Sad, which means ten times less, but it probably means paying, and Novi Sad only twice as much, but also the government of Serbia, Novi Sad for two factories that should employ three and a half thousand people and that the citizens of Novi Sad know the surrounding places from Katje, Futoga, Veternik, Begec, Rumenka, Kisac and all other places. So these companies are coming to Novi Sad. We stand out for eight billion and 133 million. Teklas comes to Vladic's Han with 400 plus 400 employees. Imagine, since we've managed to destroy everything in Vlad's Han for the past 30 years, since February, we've been working for factories in Vladic's Han immediately with 400 employees. I think it's a big shift, I think it's a big deal. Let me read it to you in money, for the Hudchinson company in Ruma if I'm not mistaken for 60 million, Mita Jurop 437 million 500 000, the Teklas car industry that comes to Vladic's Han, exactly what I've been telling you about, we stand out 106 million 832 thousand. As you can see, everything in the dinar is known and there's no story of whether it's going here or there. "In Connect" 98 million 750, En Si Ar, is an American IT company that employs a large number of people here, already employs 1300 people, 250 million. "State New" 175 million, which is a large number of people, thousands and 400 employees, if I'm not mistaken, total for the Obrenovas, for the people who were affected by those catastrophic floods, and we already found a Turkish investor who hired, there was a 100-man plan, but 200 people hired, and I believe that it was the biggest problem of Krupanja that we managed to solve with everything we managed to build and make. "Carina Fashion" 82,500 thousand, "Masterplast" 87,500, "Mitros Flyshvaren" 245 million, "Tiger Tigers" Pirot 937 million, "Trek Light", which I think should go to Ćupri, if I'm not mistaken 125 million, "Peka cevaring system Smederevo" which has already hired over 1000 people, we expect it to go to over 2,000 people, so that was some "back app" variant for Jelizara, so we managed to do that, "Fiyat" 650 million, a total of eight billion 413 million 325 thousand. I think that now we've made it all very clear, all of what someone didn't understand or couldn't read, that today everything about it is clear to everyone. I've prepared some other parts and many other things since I've seen the criticism that it's not going to be the National Museum. In 2016, the National Museum in Belgrade has to be completed, and with the performer, it is agreed that only one small part of the money is paid in early 2017, and a billion is already set aside for 2016. So, I just want to tell you that everything we haven't been able to achieve in a decade before, in everything we're coughing about, in everything we're late for, that we've managed to do. That is why it is sometimes strange for me to say besides good results, and the latest news is that Serbia's economy - greater optimism in the expectations of the 2016 businessmen, that more than 60% of SMEs and entrepreneurs in Serbia have positive expectations of business in 2016 and the head of the European Commission in Belgrade, and tomorrow Johannes Han, Commissioner for Enlargement of the EU comes to you, will also be able to hear it from him. Michael Davenport says today -- Serbia has done a lot, I congratulate her, has achieved a lot in the process of European integration, and I congratulate her on that. Serbia must continue reforms to open chapters more quickly in the future. I would like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia who believed in the Serbian government's politics. I want to thank many people in the government who have worked hard, to thank everyone who supported it, because in 2015 it will remain remembered as the year in which we managed to prevent bankruptcy and to make a fiscal deficit, a dramatic reduction, the year in which we managed to make a major shift out of recession and bring the country into dynamic economic growth and years to come even bigger and much more dynamic growth since 2015. This year will remain remembered for having managed to improve our position on the World Bank's "duing business" list for 32 seats. But this year will remain remembered for the great successes and for the fact that we have managed to defend and preserve both our national, vital national and political interests that we are not a genocide people today, that we have presided over the OSCE in the most serious way possible, that we have managed to preserve our position, position of comprehensive and sovereign Serbia and UNESCO, that even if someone didn't like it, I think it was important, especially if it was tried politically, partly political violence and without consulting with Serbia to be implemented in action, that we have managed to preserve our country, to preserve regional stability, to fix relations with our neighbours and Bosniaks and with everyone else, and I am saying first of all because of the 20-year-old Srebrenica, that we have managed to preserve our best relations and to make a good environment for even faster, even more successful development in 2016. That's why this budget is serious, responsible, that's why we kept a good part of the money hidden from us on the income side, and we're just about to have conversations with public enterprises to try to get those billions that we've predicted here that we won't get to have them too. We have a difficult decision tomorrow, a difficult and very responsible decision on Telecom. We have a last meeting with the Privatization Advisor. I would thank only a small number of people who acted responsibly because everyone else used it for political schemes, for political attacks, and that the economy had no idea they didn't want to talk about anything. But I guess that's when Serbia... I understood everything when someone wanted to say something against our political parties, but I could never understand when someone was doing something to make a mistake in Serbia when he was bad at talking about "Er Serbia", when he was bad at talking about what we might be proud of, about what we did well, and what we did well, and when someone was just waiting for a worse result to come out in public with it, and that was why I was surprised at the fact that in the 21st century, there was a fire of vanity just as it was done in the 15th century in Florence and that many ministers and many people in the government were throwing all kinds of stones and that it was just waiting when and how it all had to be broken up and everything was falling apart. Serbia has managed to maintain full stability in the previous period, don't forget. This is the only country in the region that hasn't fired any tear gas cartridges in the previous year on any of us, on any of you, on any of you, on any of you, on any other, on any of the migrants, on any of us. Serbia was able to do all that. Absolute peace, full stability to preserve despite, I would say, all announcements, despite all the bad and negative forecasts. I am convinced that Serbia will enter in 2016 with good news, that we will open chapters in Brussels, because it is important to bring investors. We'll have to work harder, work even better, and live in a modern, decent and orderly country. I am convinced that the lesson that all black ravens have learned in Serbia, the political black ravens that are here, and later on, I will prepare myself seriously for today's debate, read what they've told us -- how many times we're going to have a rebalancing. For the first time in 43 years, we haven't had a budget rebalance or to be even more precise, for the first time in so many years we haven't had any lower income and we haven't had any higher expenses. On the contrary, we had lower expenses, and we had higher incomes for the first time in so many years and it was a great success. I congratulate you and I on that. Congratulations and the trust you had. Just don't forget one thing. We always go out in front of citizens and the public with conservative estimates and weaker estimates than what's about to happen. In the end, I'll remind you, it turns out I was right when I was telling you that this year's growth is going to be between 0.5 and 1%. No one else said that. Now I'm telling you, we're going to go over 2%. If we're lucky, and it takes luck for the H Bis to enter Jelizar Smederevski and go to the chess pipe factory and start production from 1.4 million tonnes to five million tons, our growth will be much greater than 2%. It's going to be a lot bigger than 3%, and in 2017 and over 4%, and we need... I'm saying it's not all up to us. It depends on good luck, too. We did everything we could to talk to the people of H Bay. I also asked President Shi Shi Ji Ping and Prime Minister Li Kechang to help us with this matter. If we could end this with this European road that is very important for this investment, creating a whole investment framework with a $ 155 tolings of heme per thousand cubic metres of gas for Azotara and MSH, I am sure there is no winter for Serbia. It is important for us to preserve peace and stability, not to get support from those who have called us here for different scenarios of unrest and chaos and everything else, where Serbia is on a very good path. I don't like to use better words and with your support and with your help, I'm sure we can hope for even better results next year, and if I won't promise you that with the certainty of the rebalancing, there won't be any, but we'll see that it doesn't exist. We'll see that he's gone and we show that we have a good plan, and we'll have to pray and do a lot more work in the coming year and with local self-government because they have to reduce their deficits and local self-governments have to behave much more responsibly. Once again, I would like to thank all the MPs for their good, concrete and exhaustive discussions. To thank Mr Markovic for what he noticed, what would be great events in all other countries, it takes a day for us, and then somehow as ravens we should only talk about bad things. Anyway, you can't stop those who work. Because, you know, as much as anyone who looks at you from the stands can throw a coin at you, sometimes spit on you, can take a bust of grass, whatever it takes, whatever it takes, if you're determined to go ahead, if you're determined to fight and if you're determined to work hard, it can't stop you. Serbia has decided to move forward and Serbia will be a decent, modern and orderly European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40997	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40998	Mrs Gojkovic, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry that the Prime Minister was not at the beginning of this session today and that fellow representatives of the opposition did not have the right opportunity to point out everything they thought in their previous presentation. I hope they will continue to have further inspiration and further arguments to submit this presentation to a detailed analysis. As far as I'm concerned, this clarification was appropriate and I agree with Mr. Dragan Markovic, we lack a bit of plain words, a little clearer facts, precise numbers and clarifications. If we go back to the third quarter of last year, the growth rate is negative, it seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, minus 3.7, and now we're talking about the growth rate between 0.5 and 1. It's a good thing the Prime Minister is here in front of all of us, I hope we all remember that, he said -- the growth rate next year is 2%. It's very important, it's good to hear and I want to trust him. The whole process of fiscal consolidation or the business of fiscal consolidation has been done, he is behind us. It's also a deficit with this budget in the expected frames, about 3%. It's something that's acceptable and gives for the full justification of the measures we've taken. I'd say a few very important sentences here for the citizens of Serbia. We've reduced one part of our salary, we've reduced one part of our pension, could it have been done, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, something else? Could it have been during that short period of time to pull something similar, but on the other side? I thought, imagined, listened, participated in the debates, but I am convinced that there were no other short - term measures that could have been withdrawn. So, a temporary reduction in one piece's salary and a temporary reduction in pensions, Serbian citizens need to know, was necessary. For what? This wasn't about whether pensions were small or large, whether they were going to grow or not. The key question for those who live out of it was actually what was usually, simple question – is there going to be a pension or will there be no pension? That was the key question. 1.2% growth, that's strange enough for me. Come on, I understand the political struggle, it's perfectly normal. Is it necessary to analyse whether 1.2 is significant or minor? Of course it's insignificant, but here it's a percentage in the second plan. The key to everything is to confirm that we have stopped and that the salaries with an increase of up to 4%, and that part of the pensioners with these symbolic one comas are protected, that they are regular and that they are safe. That's basic. Everything else is a short-term day-to-day politicisation. It will not bring good to anyone, neither to us here nor to political parties, nor to the citizens of Serbia. I repeat, the largest number of Serbian citizens is 60%, I mean pensioners, who are excluded from this reduction. That's good. They suffered 40% of this reduction, but they suffered it so that tomorrow they could know that these pensions were regular, that they were safe and that this month and the next month, absolutely certainly the postman would ring their doorbell. He who doesn't live by it doesn't care much about it. We today in Serbia have as a consequence of poor privatisation, 24 missed, not to mention hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs. Do you think these people are thinking today whether their salaries have grown or not? Of course they don't think, they don't have that salary anymore today. In the same way, these pensioners could have come into a position, that they couldn't care less about these pensions. As a result, the measures taken, I make it clear once again, are definitely showing that we were right, we from the PUPS parliamentary group, myself personally in all our actions, when we were defined to support this fiscal consolidation system. Is this consolidation of pension cuts and salaries reform? Are those all reforms? Of course not. Reforms are state-of-the-art, but reforms are also responsible. But this was the first step towards implementing reforms in Serbia, the first necessary step. The other didn't exist. Of course, the question is, we here today, if we sum up these results for the previous year, if we sum up the deficit, we projected it on, I think, I'll be free to take the figure out, about 191 billion, and we're expecting about 120. That means we've done some things, we've made some moves. For this year, or for the next year, we predict a deficit of about 121 billion. I'm sure if we take the same principle of making this budget as last year, that conservative approach, the principle of caution, that this deficit will be below this. Now what the Prime Minister has given particular attention to, these are the two challenges. It's a rationalization of this public sector and it's these 17-18 companies. I am pleased to hear that there are reserves of 100 – 105m euros, which can appear and be used for this. Of course, I agree with you, Mr. President, that RTB Bor is essential to us. It is necessary for eastern Serbia, there is no dilemma. We'll give you money. I'm interested in one other thing, are we doing everything we do in RTB Bor in a proper and valid way? Do the people who work there spend the money we gave them and what do we give them? That's the key question. As far as subsidies are concerned, I belong to those people who are very careful with them, especially on a flat-rate basis. All right, we'll give it here or there. I see we've been arguing today, someone's more important about agriculture, some are more important about ways, some are more important about business systems, but let's look at every single case as a whole when we decide to give that money. You said this well today, let's see, and you gave examples of what we did with that money last year, how they were used. I'm not so sure they were used the right way. That's where the reserves are hiding, and that's why I'm always careful when it comes to subsidies. Public enterprises, an important segment, respected fellow MPs, were once a guarantee of social peace, we agree. There are colleagues from the SPS longer, they know that, what social peace is, but today they are threatening to become the generator of social unrest. When I say "social unrest generator" - because the amount of losses they accumulate seriously threatens the economic development of this country. Public enterprises, large-scale public enterprises owned by the state of Serbia and those, seem to me, Mr. Minister Sertic, 600 at the bar, do business anyway. I often hear thesis, especially from the ranks of some opposition representatives, he says – you took public enterprises dividends and now they can't develop. Bad thesis, gentlemen. Every owner of capital, any savings -- looking for interest, any shares -- is looking for dividends, any land -- is looking for rent and the state, as the owner, must participate in profits. This public company, especially if it is market-based, must make a profit. The basic act, profitability, with the growth and development of the corporation, is understood, part of it and gets absolutely normal to go into the Republic of Serbia's budget. We had a "Lutrija Sr." case. I guess I'm the only one who remembered one thing that you said, you'll probably repeat, that, I think, the Slovak lottery, maybe I didn't hear right, throws in the Slovak budget, listen to me carefully, 200 million euros. The Serbian insertion is zero. Where does the casino lose, except in Serbia? I don't know where he's losing. It's possible, but it's not that much. In some other countries, the EPS puts considerable resources into the country's budget. Out of the world's ten largest corporations based on the Hong Kong and New York Stock Exchange, five are owned by states and the full budgets of those states. Guys, don't make some corporation work, we need to clear that up. The goal of the corporation is profitability, growth and development and third, of course, element – corporate social responsibility. Why am I saying this? It is the large public enterprises, from the EPS, "Serbia", "The Road", with the loss reduction in next year, that will help the country's overall economic recovery. Here's an example of the National Air Transporter. We got from losers a company that works hard. I'm glad she even has zero. Imagine if all public enterprises in Serbia had only a positive zero - there would be no cuts in part of the salary, no pensions, no worries, and doctors and educators whether there would be enough pay. That's the basics we have to work on next year. I repeat once again, there is the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Finance, the results of public enterprises, in my opinion, they have to monitor the retailes daily. The practice now is that we give the reports three months, and that's good, but the data that is being summed up, in my opinion, Mr. Minister Sertic, is a little late. We're discussing, say, business in the last year, here we are, and we're done with this one. Every director of the public company, here, counterpart Ciric is here, must already know what his result will be next year, and today it is which - half of December. If you do not know today, at the end of December, what result will you have? So what do you do, where are you, what do you do? We need to remind some of the people we've entrusted with a key key function, remind them of where they are and what the result is that they have to make. I'd also refer to local self-government. And they're loss generators, big ones. Let's not lie to each other. I recently followed the data that a Denmark, which is approximately Serbia, has reduced the number of local self-governments from 1,000 to 98. Watch out, from 1,000 to 98. Do Serbia need 600 public enterprises at the bar? We have three unfortunate municipalities down there, don't make anyone angry, unhappy, in terms of original incomes, which have several public enterprises, as if one can't perform the basic function that formed it for all three municipalities. Let's see what their original incomes are and who deserves to be called local self-government. Let's see some of these criteria. In my opinion, there's an important savings tank. In the end, you said - investments. For as long as I've known about myself, I've heard that Serbia would be great, here, three billion if it came in, says, a year, that would be great. Those three billion don't get in somehow. There's a billion coming in, there's a billion coming in on foreign investments. My appeal to the finance minister, that's his area, what about the financial market? What about the capital market? What about investment banking? What are and where are the participants on that market? Let's see who has free money, who's willing to offer it on the side of the offer and who's willing to take it to the side of demand. Let's revive the financial market. There's no economic recovery, Mr. Minister, no life on one such market, you agree with me, you can't disagree. We put it in the seal. Over eight billion Serbian citizens are saving in our banks. On these invested foreign exchanges they get a symbolic interest. Let's start by creating an ambience, Mr. Minister Sertic, that these citizens of ours, that our people who save and believe in these banks will now give them the miserable interest to withdraw those funds and go into their own business. Let's create them such an environment with a new law on social entrepreneurship, with a new law on cooperatives, that they go into their own economic activity. Let's not just wait for someone from the East, from China, to come to us from the West or from the Emirates. They'll come when they find out they have an interest in something like that. Our interest isn't their interest either. Let's not forget, when we talk about subsidies, I always said, when we give them, that we primarily try to give it to our economic operators. Let's let our people who run the business, let's let them hire the workers. For what? For a simple reason, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every foreign company draws profits from this country, there's no dilemma, there's profit. The goal of the business is to win. Let's get our domestic economic operators in a position where they can work, give him a stimulant so they can hire new extra people. With all these notes I have made, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this proposed text of the budget. Whether he's developmental, whether he's social, whether he's restrictive, whether he's not, let everyone choose an adjective who loves and wants to hear. It's important to me that what we projected last year we managed to make these happen. When they ask me, when it will be better, my answer is: it is good, people, that it is not worse. The hardest thing to do is stop and make things right. Now, whether we move forward depends not only on the government, depends on all of us individually, on our willingness to move forward. I wish you success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u40999	Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41000	With thanks to you, Mr. Krkobic, for your support, I would just like to say one thing, since we accepted, unbound for having to pay off old debts for military pensioners, for them 57-60,000, so we accepted that it was the State's error in 2007, 2008 and then the Minister of Defence. That means that for those 60,000, about 6% is an increase in pensions. What's very important, and I'm going to try to be specific, about RTB Bor, I don't know what to tell you. They're very difficult conditions and it's hard to make a good result with this price of copper in the world. It's so hard to do that, and when you have it, then you have the nerves and the dissatisfaction of people, and the state just piles up debts. We can't be honest today, we can't sell, we can't privatize RTB. I've spoken to the most powerful hindsight companies in America, but they're closing copper mines, like steel mines. I don't know if you have any information that the baskets are down 50%, and 15% of the people are fired. So, steel that is more important than ours, precisely because of the price of steel that is at the lowest historical level, as well as the price of copper, as well as the price of oil, as well as the many other problems we have because of it, especially in the sale of raw materials in which we are as rich as the land. I'm not sure we're using it the best way we can, but I'm not even sure we're not using it. So, simply, for us, it's a difficult situation, and we need a strategic partner, we can't find him. I won't take it as a failure of government, and that's why I said to everyone -- great, help us if you can. I'm telling you - you can't, because you can't find anyone in the world who's going to get into it for the simple reason that such conditions are on the market and that's how it is. So these are our real and objective problems to face. That is why I said that I understand that part of what the Fiscal Council was talking about, because when everyone starts talking, you have not finished 17 enterprises. Well, you ended them by destroying them. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about those who make such remarks. You finished them, you destroyed them in the last 15, 20, or I don't know how many years. Then there's someone left to watch it, how and how it's gonna fix us. What, if you hadn't left us with the Ironworks that she could've worked with, or where everything was booming from work? What, if you hadn't left us the stock and the cows that talked, they were so good. Well, you didn't leave any of that to us. Someone has to deal with all this and someone today has to solve these problems so Serbia can, as I said, be a modern and normal country. You said you were giving money to our investors too. It's given, Milan, it's given and it's easier to give to our people than to strangers, but let's set things objectively. Foreigners are making it easier to bring a market that is not only the Serbian market, but the Western European market, the Euro-Asian Union market, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Also Turkey, and the Turks are coming more and more and welcome to our country, primarily because of the European market. I hope that they will now come to Serbia on an even greater scale because of the Russian market. We're not looking forward to any relationship problems. On the contrary, everywhere we try to make them be the best possible relationship and we influence how much tension we can calm down. But I'm telling you now that we're going to have more than a hundred companies from Turkey next year because they have contracted production and contracted sales on the Russian market, they can't do it from Turkey anymore. It is a matter of days when the Russians will stop it with some other countries that are close to Turkey, and they know for Serbia that it is safe for them. It's up to us to finish it again. As far as domestic people are concerned, we have problems with the guarantee, problems with the empiels, people who don't understand, these are non-refundable loans. That's the one from the past where we've been taking loans that banks can't collect, and that's why our businesses are looking for special colleges, looking for additional guarantees. We will offer anyone who offers the same conditions, even slightly weaker conditions than domestic companies, to provide much more than we will give to foreigners. That, unfortunately, Milan, is simply not the case. We're still facing this self-government gene, where every day we have to explain that we're guarding places and that someone's waiting for someone to ring his doorbell, someone to give him a job. Because we don't have a developed entrepreneurial spirit. The most common observation that we all hear in the campaign is – e, so I'm waiting for work, I'm done. Why are you waiting for him? Are you forbidden to start a company? Never easier. You need 24 hours. Not so much. Do it, but with us it's only good business that's in state property, only if you're doing something in the state, if there's something in the public sector, well, then we're guaranteed it. The essence of the economy and the advanced economy is in the private sector, in that it is at risk. Many say that Americans have succeeded because those who came from Ireland, above all, but also Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, all of our European countries, are people who had this "risk giant", and that today they still have the most successful economy because of that. We, back in the '50s, '60s, managed to destroy this entrepreneurial spirit, '90s, we managed to destroy working habits, and what we do today is moaning every day. Every day is just whether we can cry and whether the state will react somewhere. The state can't react to anything. When we learn, when we are attacked because the state has responded and helped someone, because it has to take money from someone, then Serbia will be incomparably more successful than today. And about that, I don't like to court anyone, and I won't use it to court you or to court the people or anyone else, for people who talk, because in Serbia it's never been good. No one has ever been better in Serbia. We've always talked about this better, since the 1804th year, since the beginning of the creation of a modern Serbian state, and we've never been well and we've never been better. And for God's sake, it used to be worse, it used to be better. Although I'm going to tell you that I think it's a lot better, even though not all people have felt it yet. Some will feel less, some will feel more. The state of public finances is stable. Our public finances relative to the den we inherited today represent a pharmacy. We've managed to get the economy going and from the minus and the forecast with a minus one, minus one and a half, to get to plus one, and I'm telling you in the next four years we're not going to be below plus two percent. These are big things for one country. If you look at the number of kilometers we made on the highway, what will follow in 2016 and what we will finish by March 2017 only on the highway is almost 200 kilometers. Well, count on an average mile of highway costing you no less than seven, eight million euros, somewhere and much more. Somewhere less, of course, but the average is above the eighth, ten million euros. Well, when you open 30 kilometers then know, come on, this was an easier share, but when you open 30 kilometers of Požega – Preljine, it costs 300 million and over 300 million euros. That's the huge amount of money the state gives, which the state singles out. It's huge progress, except that many people don't want to see it, because it's more important to live in some kind of reality and just say bad things. So someone will be able to say whatever they want, but they'll have concrete results that they can't erase. So I say, the state of the country is much better. Did all the citizens feel that? Well, they're not. Will everyone always feel that? Well, they won't, that improvement will always feel the most valuable, those who are the most patient, those who are the most diligent, the most working and will always be the most successful of others and there's no doubt about it. It's folk capitalism, it's life. They've never all been the same for the cookbook, I guess we skipped that level back in the '60s. Is there any more injustice? He's got it. Is there much more we can fix? We can and we will. Will people be better off in 2016 than in 2015? Now I can undoubtedly tell you, not doubtfully, because if we were able to raise the salaries by 4% to enlighten the workers, to pay one percent in one-time giving, then that one-time giving will be in 2016. There's no doubt, whenever we see that we've made savings, that's what we're going to do. At the end of next year, and it's been more than two years with the IMF, and then we can look at everything and we can make it simpler and more free to plan our expenditures. That's the point, we're doing it, and everybody sees it. Do you think anyone in the IMF is crazy? You think someone in the EU is crazy? You think someone in the World Bank is crazy? Well, those people are full of just words of praise. There are many words of praise and full of words of recognition for our country. Do you think, as Dragan Markovic said, that the Chinese said it was easy to say that – sit down next to the Chinese prime minister. To find out that you're proud of your country. The Estonian Prime Minister, since we had more of these receptions different in many places we went. I was fascinated by that industrial zone, the industrial park in Sujo that I saw, that's what we're going to try to do in Serbia. Something the Chinese did in Belarus, we'll try to make it here much better with stronger Chinese companies. What's going on out there? When you go with the Chinese prime minister or with the Chinese president, I don't always go anywhere among the last ones, I enter those rooms and a wonderful man, young Estonian Prime Minister Tony Ruivas, said – when they go where they sit, he said – I don't know who will sit on this side, but leave room for Serbia and Vukic here anyway. Not because of Vucic, but because of Serbia, Serbia deserves the place. Serbia deserves this because these people see economic indicators. See what the EU says in its report on economic reforms. They are the words themselves of praise, very concrete, but a lot of hard work is ahead of us and these risks with these 17 companies are not even small. We need everyone's help here, and we welcome anyone who can help, but believe me, I know it's hard and almost impossible for us to handle it well and lightly, because all these months we've been trying to do it and we're seeing what kind of pain and hard it's going with. Some people have destroyed it in a moment of work, and it takes years to change, fix and improve. So I think it's clear that Serbia is on a good, very good path. I think everyone sees the state of the country as incomparably better, so I prayed for stability last year, I pray for stability in 2016. That is why I am especially grateful to all Serbian citizens, so I am grateful to you Milan, I am grateful to the pensioners, I am grateful to everyone, because these people understood, despite not easy life, they will not be easy for two years, but they will be better than today. They showed patience and patience and seriousness and responsibility. They've shown that they understand what the state is and I'm grateful to all the citizens of this country, because it's the only way we've been able to make these better results, and that's the only way we're going to have much better results in the next five years. I learned one thing, in the Far East, don't plan five months ahead. That's why I didn't want to fascinate Serbia and take those 105m euros and tell you, hey people, so our deficit is almost non-existent for 2015, but I said, don't pay us, leave it for the hard days, leave it to us for the hard days, which no politician has ever worked in Serbia, which nobody has ever done before. It's not a Serbian habit. It is what belongs to the Protestant ethos, however you turn. I think that these are positive and good things that are happening in Serbia and I also think that if we talk about serious things, for the first time in a year we have serious discussions on GDP growth, on the fiscal deficit and we will learn the difference between net VAT and gross domestic VAT. We're going to learn a lot more, but that's how we're going to educate and train all the people in Serbia who are going to be able to see the budgets and everything we talked about today in a much more professional way. So, since we get the impression in the public that we're helping some domestic companies, we're helping a lot, but it can't be help, give us the money, but let's not get that money back. You can't get help without giving collateral and guarantees that this job will be done. When you give the PKK money, they have an obligation to hire that and that number of people and so many salaries to pay and have controllers, the hard people who control it, we control it, and they meet those obligations. That's what Johnson Electric does, everyone we give money to does. There were some problems, but not big ones, Sertic, almost everyone fulfilled their obligations, the last contracts, almost absolutely all fulfilled their obligations. It used to be one way or the other, without too much control, but for the last year or two, we haven't had any problems with that. So, whatever Serbian companies want that money, these subsidies they want, welcome, but you have to guarantee that we didn't throw that people's money away and we want it, and we don't have a problem giving people's money, but we want you to give it back to us through people's employment. We want that back through the market you secured in the West or the East. We want you to give it back to us through what you're going to do in the next five or six years, and I didn't come here, I took the money, and after a year I fired everything and I have nothing left to do. That's the point. This is not all the answer to you, I am grateful to you for your understanding, for your political party's support, which is supported by all the pensioners of Serbia, who understand perfectly what the state is, and what responsibility and seriousness are, but these are arguments. As you can see, always from a lot of announcements, from a once incorrect degree, sometimes a call to hate usually leaves nothing, because work wins. The work you can't win. The work and energy they always win, and I am therefore grateful to you and to all the people who took part in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41001	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41002	Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, as an authorised representative of the SPS of this united debate, will commit myself to the most important law, the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If something can be concluded from the budget and the budget analysis which the current assembly majority has adopted, we can say that it is not a trotininet and that we can easily stop it and turn it in another direction, without any serious consequences. The conduct of the public finances of a serious state, recognised as such in the world, starting with the EU, the IMF, the World Bank, Russia, China and many other countries and organisations, and in particular the recovery of public finances, is not a process that can happen in one budget cycle. On the contrary, if we really want to get out of trouble once and for all, we need to take steps, reducing expenditures, not forgetting people and increasing income without killing the economy. We need to stimulate productive activities, but not to push into the collapse of the branches that are in big trouble. We of the SPS can say that this draft budget is an indication, that a large ship of public finances, in the last two years, has first slowed the way in a bad direction, and then started to turn slowly, and that after the adoption and good realization of these budgets, for the first time we can see the ship moving in calm and secure sea instead of towards ice santas. Besides, all the visible shifts from high budget deficits, this budget clearly shows two more things. First, it is abandoned that budget projections are made based on unrealistic and incorrect projections and assumptions. Budgetary planning for 2016, as well as for 2015, is based on realistic rather than on desired and optimistic assumptions. In this light, this year we skipped traditional rebalancing, as we can all see, we even avoided those rebalances that were technical. This tells us that, not only do we plan realistically, but that, in addition to good planning, we also have appropriate moves to realise expenditure. This applies, both to the collection of tax and non-tax revenue and to the keeping of expenditure under control. After all, the recognitions for this area come to us from an institution that is very interested in our budget, not because it loves this congregational majority and this government, but because it cares about the trustees of our country and their interests. When the IMF tells you that the settings are real and the realization is encouraging, then that assessment comes from someone who doesn't have one political or any reason to make our reality better. Secondly, the 2016 budget gives us a very detailed picture of the structure of income and expenditure. The way payment, principal and deficit is financed, as well as alternatives, when it comes to funding. Details and transparency were and remained our definitions with a realistic expectation, since we have no reason to hide a single figure in the budget. In 2016 we planned, using pretty conservative estimates. So, we assume that the GDP growth rate will be 1.8%, and that there will be a slight acceleration and inflation compared to 2015, more specifically that it will move from an unusually low level, even for euro area standards, to an extent that will allow inflation to give a certain degree of flexibility to the financial sector, and thus to a real economy. Of course, here we are talking about a nice situation that our primary goals of monetary policy range from one to 3%, which is what Serbia can finally say, has entered the ranks of countries with a decent monetary policy. Also, when it comes to GDP, it is possible that the results will be better, but for now we leave good expectations aside because the budget must be adopted on the basis of, to some extent, more restrictive assumptions. And to not only turn out to praise ourselves, the independent bodies of the state administration, who have made their proposals and projections, the very proposal of the government whose part we are, I must point out that one part that is difficult for all of us, who know that the heart is on the left hand side, is that the budget proposal implies reducing the expenditure on wages. In other words, a reduction in the number of public sector employees is planned next year, as wage cuts are something that does not make too much sense when it comes to the public sector. If we look at the public sector in light of the motivation of employees, but also in light of the possibility to teach quality people, next year the number of employees will be reduced more than the natural outflow due to retirement and voluntary abandonment of the public sector. As expected, we have a surplus somewhere, and somewhere we have a shortage. When it all comes together and takes away, we were basically expecting to have a surplus. The challenge facing those who are going to implement the reform is to come up with an answer when numbers are transformed into specific positions that are not needed, and there are, and there are concrete persons for whose work is no longer needed. The SPS parliamentary group points out once again that any rationalisation must mean very measurable impact criteria and very clear systematicisations that have been written to bring about the best humane solutions, not to have a solution that will be the result of rotten compromises. If we fire those who are on the margins and who have no background of any type, sacrificing performances and an essential sense of social justice, and protecting those who have support that is not based on impact, we will do nothing. The public sector is not a cost in itself, so that it needs to be dependent on the problems we have, reduce or increase. The public sector is a service of industry and of citizens who have certain costs, so that they can play the role. If it all comes down to cutting, we will not achieve a basic purpose, which is to reduce costs while raising the quality of services. If we embrace weaknesses, bad practices, and only reduce costs these costs will come to us in some other places because the economy and citizens will not get the proper and quality services they need. We have many examples, starting with whether it is better for citizens to wait a few hours in line for documents, to pay agencies for these services and to do so for them or to pay employees who do so. Is it better to have employees in science or not to have the support of the economy in this sector? Is it better to save up on maintenance so our schools and hospitals are falling apart? Do we need to use a less effective method so that hospitals and schools are inadequately clean? It all works, at first sight, banally. No one would have thought that it was the legislator's intention to play with the indicators of success, but practice shows that the best intentions could have arisen in very bad practice. We are a little longer than most parties on the Serbian political scene. We've made mistakes and good moves, and we wouldn't want the current rationalizations to turn into political revenge and to see people in the public sector as sympathisers of this or those political options. Once again, if we are tempted to use political criteria as standards of measuring one's effects, we will not do much smartly. Compared to the public administration, we have some more changes in employment in the companies that are scheduled for bankruptcy. It is about enterprises that did not go to the green branch during the years of restructuring, despite the efforts made by governments that represented all parties, who are minority, sitting in the National Assembly today. We're going to have pressure on public finances on this basis, the funds are planned, of course, and we can't say that it won't happen when planning in 2017. On the other hand, the question is whether we want companies to generate profit revenues and new healthy jobs or whether we want to look back and forth. On the medium term, we better achieve the conditions that people who now have fictitious jobs get real jobs and pay by meeting the needs of citizens of Serbia and countries where these companies will export their goods and services, instead of looking at budgets and MPs, to a lesser extent, and almost every month towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would be nice if we could create new jobs first, then solve the restructuring problem, but you all know it's not possible. The funds for this, as a society, were spent at a time when those who ran this country's economic policy felt that the best policy was to push problems under the carpet. However, the bill is eventually paid again, and the bills for wrong decisions always pay the citizens of Serbia, and the political price for such mistakes is usually paid by those who have not made mistakes. We try to make our mistakes, which will certainly happen as little as possible, to break the unhealthy practice of passing the costs of bad decisions to future generations, even if we ourselves pay the political price. The 2016 draft budget also planned new non-tax revenues. At the same time, it has been described in a seductive manner as public finances based on octanes and malignancies. Excise duties, i.e. Excises represent a significant part of the total budget inflows for European opportunities, but on the other hand, their percentage amount in the sales price of goods and services to which they are paid is below the European. Our problem is that we are not always at the level of development where we could benefit more from VAT and profit tax, and in the consolidated budget, and from income and property taxes. Of course, not through unreasonablely high taxation but through the expansion and creation of an economically strong tax base that is willing to pay because it can make good money in Serbia and see that state money is being spent in a way that is proud of all of us. To say this finding only a few years ago was pathetic and dishonest. Today, it seems to us to be something tangible and what will happen in the years to come. The ship I was talking about in the beginning will turn around by then. The deficit will become our past, and the public debt will begin to fall. Subsidy. I don't know, subsidies remain a significant part of the budget. We cannot reduce agricultural subsidies in particular because part of them is often social, and the other part is to support our farmers in a competition with competitors who have even more generous support. We didn't invent a system like this. It was done by countries that are much more powerful than us and we don't have much choice. We have strategic companies that are recipients of subsidies. One which will receive the last subsidy tour in 2016 and one which is the traditional recipient of the subsidy. We can see progress in both air and rail traffic, but here it's more gradual and longer-term, but something's happening. We will continue to encourage investors, but we will continue to improve the control that has become very serious from the absence, and the projects are very focused on precisely defined criteria and institutions that are able to monitor. We can't wait a few more years until the ship turns and gets full speed because the countries in our environment have long ago done that process. We can't do it for people who'll stay temporarily for work. We need to find a way to create new jobs and get new technologies and markets. Unlike some previous policies, if you're a domestic investor, you're no longer discriminated against in this country since recently. The long-term commitment is to make subsidies a transitional solution, so far we have no conditions to cut it with an axe and cut it with an axe, but we have all the conditions to measure, monitor and select carefully. Something closely related to the subsidies I would like to discuss in the next part are state investments. This year we can see that we've been saving, maybe more than others seem to need. The reason was clear, it was better to be a little late with the projects than by the customs that existed in the past, and we have to say, a lot of promises, a lot to start, and above all a lot to be late in payment. In the following year we will invest more and we know that without infrastructure there is no dynamic development of our country. We have a lot of challenges ahead of us. We're all aware of that. We're going to have to solve the constant problem of transferring the ball from one level to another, whether it's a province or if it's municipalities. There are no fast solutions in this area either. When we balance our public finances, it will be easier to divide ourselves fairly with business and income in a vertical division of responsibility. Even when our debt begins to fall, the sword of Damocles hangs over us with interest rates above our necks. We're not aware of that, but that's why it's important that we adequately repack our debts, which is what we do and we refinance it the same thing on the medium term as conveniently as possible. It is not the same if the debt of 80% of GDP is at an average interest rate of 3% or 5%, for example. The difference, believe it or not, can be total investment in infrastructure one year. Of course, there's a lot of good expectations. When we have balanced finances, we'll be able to think about this reasonable item. The perspectives of reducing tax rates and expanding tax bases will be opened. We will be able to look at the whole picture and that from this holistic review we also have appropriate policy strategies and measures that are not yet realistic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only say at the very end that the SPS supports this draft budget, because it is leading us in an unequivocal direction which is our long-term goal and the goal of all those who see Serbia as a well-organised and prosperous state. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41003	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41004	Thank you. I haven't called anyone to replicate. I wanted to add something to what the Prime Minister was talking about earlier. Of course, budgeting is one of the most important events of the year. Besides, the consequences of budget failure are clear, but the budget is not just economic law. The budget is both a time and a place and an opportunity to discuss the overall government policy. In that sense, I would really like to add that in this era of day-to-day political gaffs and false affairs, we are losing sight of what we have essentially and strategically managed to do well in this year. I therefore want to particularly underline two issues which are the basis of all the praises we receive in the international community. One issue is monetary and fiscal reform, economic reform, and another is the issue of our country's foreign-political position. So I would like to point out in particular that several historic steps have been made this year that will remain recorded in our country's history. The first question is the vote in the Security Council regarding Srebrenica. Russia's vetoed, someone's gonna say, but that same Russia hasn't vetoed before. Also, we managed to win UNESCO. Also, Serbia successfully chaired the OSCE and, as you know, last week was the diplomatic centre of the world and Europe. And not only that, but we were able to save in the organization of this conference, we saved a third of the planned money. Instead of 17m euros, as planned by Switzerland last year, we had planned three million, of which we spent two, and we organised a more successful conference than last year. Also, the 14th is waiting for us to open our chapters. The prime minister had very successful visits to the United States, Germany, Russia, China. At the time of the ongoing migrant crisis, we had, in my opinion, a diplomatic victory over Croatia, when it resorted to closing and blocking and blocking the border. Also, during these perhaps more than a year, only another country in the world has further recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. I want to tell you that we've managed to do all of this with the least money the Foreign Ministry has gotten from the state in the last 10 years. I'm not complaining, and I want to commend the minister. I may be one of the few people who doesn't complain, and I think we should cut that down further. I'm just gonna show you how it used to look. For the following year, Minister Vujovic planned to receive about 55m euros from our ministry. If you take away our added diaspora, which is more than a million euros, it is just over 53m euros. In 2007, when the government was Kostunica, the foreign ministry had 70m euros. In 2008, when the government was Kostunica-Tadic-Dinkic, the foreign ministry had 100m euros, today it is 53 and will have next year. I'll remind you, we've managed twice as much money to achieve all this I've just listed for you. And in 2008, with 100m euros, we suffered the greatest possible diplomatic defeat, which is a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence. I mean, it's not all about money, it's all about politics, what kind of politics you run. That's why I want to remind all MPs that the budget is not just numbers, it's also politics. I also want to say that out of these 53m euros, just over 13m euros is all for the ministry here in the country. All that remained for diplomatic and consular representations, and 42 million were allocated to the country's foreign ministry in 2008 and 13 million, so three times less, this year. No new cars will be purchased for diplomatic and consular representations, and for the first time since the Law on Foreign Affairs was passed, I think I may be wrong, but it seems to me that it is because it is the basic observation of our diplomats, that they do not have health insurance there in those countries where they work, and we have great costs, for the first time now and in the context of such reduced funds, we will provide funds for the health insurance of our employees abroad. I mean, you can do anything whenever you want, but there's nothing without a good policy. I therefore want to say to everyone – leave the figures aside, the results we have achieved on the political agenda, not only by numbers, but also by the political plan are such that indeed I, as the president of the SPS and the man who heads the coalition with the JS and the PUPS, want to say that I am proud of the results we have achieved not only in this government, but also what we have done since 2012. If the Prime Minister asks what to do with Bora, so I remember, in time the DS, when she was going around Bor, was saying, "Why don't you make furniture?" Is that what happened? If I remember correctly. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: When? ( ) After 2000. I can't remember, though, a lot of you have changed. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: What was the prime minister's name? I think it was the first prime minister of the day. Zoran Djindjic, that's right. If you think I'm not allowed to say that name. I certainly didn't participate in the assassination organization and respect what he was doing, but I have no reason to say he didn't say what he said. When he went around that neighborhood, they asked him what to do with the pine van, he said -- make furniture or something else or peanuts, I forgot what it was. When it comes to "Telecom", I just want to advise the prime minister if there is a need to advise him. Every thing in Serbia is politicized. Milosevic sold Telecom in the 1990s. All those who attacked him then bought it again after 2000 and earned it at Telecom, Serbia earned it at Telecom. When I was in the government with Tadic, Tadic wanted to sell Telecom, but failed to achieve a good price, and now I see that DS is against the sale of Telecom. So let you do what the politicians say. What's good for Serbia is what needs to be done. What's best for Serbia, because politicians are changing and depending on whether you're in power or in opposition at the moment. At the time, Telecom was stronger and had a higher profit, and you wanted to sell Telecom. I am at least one of those who has a long political memory and memory, although this assembly has dulled its polemic sting, because when we were in the republican congregation somehow we were all closer to that former republican congregation... (Marian Risticevic, from the place: This is the Republic. Well, this used to be a federal assembly, so an atmosphere that doesn't give controversy, sometimes it's a little boring being, you have no one to flutter with, but I'm ready for controversy. I am not looking at my relationship with my coalition partners on day-to-day political issues, but essentially. What do you have to object to the Serbian government's policy, when it comes to European integration, about relations with major forces, about the country's external political position? I, not only have nothing to resent, but I want to congratulate everyone on the result, because we've done a lot for this country and for this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41005	I thank you, Mr. Dacic. Mr. Sutanovac wants a word. On what grounds? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Schutanovac? (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: The mention is DS, Zoran Djindjic. You have the right to a replica, because of the mention of DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41006	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, you said politicians change, but you obviously don't change. We have one goal, and that is to sit where you sit and speak worst of those you most praise. So, if you're talking about Telecom, you need to tell the public that you sold Telekom and that DS bought back Telecom. When you talk about the OSCE, you should say that you chaired the OSCE thanks to the DS Foreign Minister, whom, to your honor, you did not invite to attend the OSCE sessions. When you talk about what was inherited and how lucky you are to be in the government since 2012, to remind you, you left these Serbian citizens 12 unpaid salaries in 2000, 12 outstanding pensions, sorry, 16 months of social benefits, 18 pensions to pensioners, 250m euros in foreign exchange reserves, 20 euros in average salary in Serbia, and we left 20 euros, 40 marks, 380 euros. With those 250m euros in foreign exchange reserves, we left 11.5 billion. We left 15.7 at 14.5 billion in debt, and now it's 26. If someone in this assembly doesn't need to talk about the past, it's you, Mr. Dacic and no one else. I ask you one more thing, don't mention Zoran Djindjic again. Don't brag abroad about how you knew him, about telling lies here. If Prime Minister Vukic is still trying to quote Zoran Djindjic today, saying when we were well, and we were all listening to that speech, don't speak against Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41007	Thank you. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41008	I just want to remind the representatives of the former regime if it wasn't for me, where would you be? I don't have anything else to say. What do I have to say about that? You asked me to support you, not Kostunica and Seselj. You hired the whole world to come and convince me to back you up and I supported you. I don't regret it, you were better than Kostunica and Seselj, but what you think no one can stand up to you now for the mistakes you've made, I don't understand, what do you mean, that I didn't participate in the assassination of Zoran Djindjic? What? I didn't hang out with someone who had an assassination attack on him. No one in the SPS had anything to do with it. As you know... National MP Zoran Zivkovic throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41009	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41010	... Don't talk, you know who Boris Tadic was talking to that night, when Zoran Djindjic was killed, with us so we don't have any negative things, breaking the order, etc. We were against it. Don't transfer anything to me about Zoran Djindjic right now. The thing that I'm talking about is a lot of you around here. Many are the heirs of all this. Here, Zoran Zivkovic answered first, then Sutanovac. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dusan Petrovic is an heir. Rasim Ljajic would have answered, but he wasn't here, and he was DOS, too, once. Janko Veselinović was the same. Borko Stefanovic was. What do you want now? (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Mr Vujovic. ) Mr Vujovic was yours. That's right. Everyone has their youth mistakes. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Kori Udovicki. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41011	Mr. Petrovich, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41012	He figured out where he was wrong and went back to the right side. I mean Vujovic. I didn't want to pummel or open these difficult topics. I wanted to point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41013	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41014	... that we've cut our ministry's budget and we're not complaining about it. As you know, this time was about the government of Kostunica, partly with you, and partly without you. I don't know why you feel so called, but I still think... Now you're saying what we left behind. Listen, you knew perfectly well in 2008 what we left behind. We didn't bother you at the time. These were neither bad nor sitting here nor Palm, nor Krkobic the older, nor these socialists here, nor Mrkonjic, nor everyone else, no matter what they loved Milosevic. They didn't bother you just to stay in power. So you'd better keep your mouth shut. Don't give others a lesson. You showed what you had and the people blew you off the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41015	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Sutanovac. There's no mention of DS. It's about the former regime. Mr. Zivkovic, you have the right to a replica, since you are mentioned in a negative context. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am mentioned by name and last name. ) Mr. Sutanovac, my assessment is that Mr. Zivkovic has the right to replication, you have already received the right to replication. He mentioned Mr. Dacic, several names, I think it's unserious now to give a replica to each of them. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Bozovicu, the word was received by Mr. Zivkovic. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bozovic, I'll give you a warning. You do not allow Mr. Zivkovic to continue his exposure. A reminder to Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Zivkovic, do you want... He mentioned me by name. Warning, Mr. Schutanovci. Mr. Zivkovic, do you want to speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41016	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41017	Here, I'll give you my word again. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41018	Thank you. I understand my colleagues who are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and are entitled to a replica, but I expect you to resolve it after what I say. There is no reason to mention any other matter in the debate in the Budget Law. It's a matter of the Rules of Procedure, it's a matter of good education, it's a question of awareness of what is being talked about today in this House. Mr. Dacic calls Zoran Djindjic for something allegedly said in 2000 or after 2000, and thus seeks to prove that it is a negative wish of the then Democratic Party to destroy RTB Bor. You had great solutions for this RTB Bor, which of course did not work at the time, as you had a great solution for "Sartid", where they were mushrooms, which politically, which they make. You're in the 1990s, this same coalition that runs Serbia today, just the other way around... (SNS emissaries garner: Theme. This is a replica that doesn't know, same, except you were big then, and these other little ones, and now it's turned around, you destroyed Serbia through the '90s. Destroyed the economy, infrastructure, people, fought, pushed other people's children to die, and you have the right to ask anyone and to give yourself the right to comment on someone named Zoran Djindjic, whose goodwill you remained on the political scene of Serbia, as much as, so. The nonsense that some of you later did under the party's company you mentioned had nothing to do with Zoran Djindjic. Secondly, since you said you weren't in cahoots with the murderers and the organizers of that assassination, tell me who they are,...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41019	Ambassador, are you aware of what you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41020	Say who they are, and you listen to what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41021	Ambassador, I'm listening to everything, but we've never gone this far. Please don't. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You didn't hear what he said. Don't. I ask all MPs, I will allow you a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs to return to the budget. Such discussions take us in some other direction, I think that the citizens of Serbia, or I am convinced, want to hear what kind of budget they will have next year, which will be spent on their money, in an ordinary dictionary. Disputes in parliament, difficult words, no one needs anyone, Serbian citizens not, who are watching this. Please calm our passions and not insult each other. Here you go, Balsha.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41022	I thank the presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41023	Just tell me the article is correct, so I can track you to the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41024	Article 107. So, your predecessor who chaired, Mr. Becic, in the most cruel way possible, has hurt the dignity of this home. One, he allowed the minister to speak two minutes longer in the replica than possible in this Rules of Procedure. Under number two, he did not give a replica to Mr. Sutanovac, although the minister, and you can ask Mr. Dacic, mentioned him by his last name. In addition, he mentioned the late Democratic Party president, Mr Zoran Djindjic. Then he also made it impossible for Mr. Sutanovac and me to report to the Rules of Procedure and to ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and to share one reminder with him and me. If that's the way today's debate is about the budget, that we can't ask for any right from the Rules of Procedure, but someone else is punishing us for that, tell us right now and we can all get out of the O.R. It depends on you as president of the National Assembly whether you allow it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41025	I didn't understand much. If you claim to have been injured by the Rules of Procedure... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I can explain if you do not understand. All right, I'll go over the insult. I'm not a person who doesn't understand sometimes a little stronger emotions in giving speeches. I'm going to go over this insult. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: It is about Zoran Djindjic and... Balsha, you want to turn off the microphone, I don't think we should say any more... I want us to go back to the debate that was for and against, but very substantial, until one moment. So we'll put it to a vote on whether the Rules of Procedure is injured, I can't rule on that. Everyone has an opinion. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41026	Honorable president, I'm a 107th advertiser.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41027	Okay, I'll let you because you're gonna be mad at me. What attitude, at least some difference between Bozovic and your injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41028	He said 107, I say 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41029	104? I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41030	So, what happened, in his speech, the Deputy Prime Minister asked if we recognize each other in those who sat with the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, and in that context he asked me, do I, by my last name? If that's not enough ground... (Ivica Dacic, from the place: "Don't lie, who asked you?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41031	Five minutes break. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to sit down, to continue our work. Be kind enough to sit down and get back to work. We continue to work on the budget debate and follow-up laws. The word was requested by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41033	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41034	Please, Vice President Becic, would you be kind enough to come to the chair table? I'd also like to ask the Messenger of the Sutanovec to proceed with our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41035	If you'll excuse me, it somehow seemed to me that something like this had to happen, because when we talked about the budget and when we talked about the budget, it was clear where the arguments were and what anyone could offer, who could say. When we got to the mushrooms in that same Sartida we didn't even find mushrooms, it was just a lock and nothing more, and today it works more than 5,000 people and I hope they will always work successfully. But to return to the budget, to what is much more important for the citizens of Serbia than the barren political debates in which all of our Serbians always express that it is someone else's fault and everything we have easily forgiven to others we have never and in what way we were willing to forgive, but that is probably our Serbian mentality somewhere, and that is something that is not a great novelty for each of us. What is important is that people know why I spoke on several occasions today about the structure of income and expenditure in 2015, but also in 2016. So, by yesterday, the budget deficit is 53.4 billion dinars, so, for more than three times less than the planned deficit, which is a serious and huge success, and these are facts, whether someone liked it or not. Tax revenues will be estimated at 24.5 billion more than the amount planned for the budget, of which VAT by 11.5 billion, excise taxes by 18 billion, and believe it or not we will have income tax, which Minister Vulin was very important to say, 0.7 billion more despite the reduction in public sector wages. Why is that? This is because we grew private sector in the meantime and because of the direct foreign investment that we managed to make to be in greater scope than in 2013 and 2014, but also because we managed to make serious control of different businesses through labour inspection, but also through the tax police to make much more discipline and to fight for a much lower level, still insufficient, but certainly much lower levels of the grey economy than it was in the previous period. Also, I want to say that customs have increased by 3.8 billion, other tax revenues by 0.8 billion and non-tax revenues by 18.8 billion. I'm telling you all about 2015. So, we have made a conservative assessment according to these results and said that in some of these areas, we will have worse results in 2016, although they will not. If I may have your attention, please, just a little attention. I know that decency doesn't always have to be the most important category in politics, but I think it makes sense especially because if I spoke as Prime Minister about the budget, I don't think I've ever come out of the budget and debated the Budget Law, and I ask you for at least a little respect not to me as Prime Minister, but also to the Government and the National Assembly and to the people in Serbia who are most interested in these laws regarding his life. We spent about 80 billion less on the planned expenditures, so you know. And it's very interesting that in goods and services we spent 7.8 billion less, in subsidies 2.6 billion, in transfers 36.2 billion for better collection of contributions than planned, and that's the key thing for us. This shows for the first time a significant reduction in unemployment. With the data we talked about, you'll see a decrease in the number of unemployed compared to the last period, last year at the same time we've been making a budget for 62,000 people. Sixty-two thousand people less unemployed are a great success and a serious success. It is not enough because we still have significant high unemployment, a significantly high unemployment rate, and I believe that in the coming period we will be able to solve it even better and even more successfully. But do you see any shifts, do you see any changes? Yeah, you can see that. In particular, we will have to take care of it, and that is something that is in 2016, I believe that we will enter more seriously into this kind of reform, and here we expect a great work of the Ministry of Education about dual "locays" education, because we in Serbia today, what is important for people who need to know we have insufficient welders, metallostriggers, locksmiths, no one is concerned with the things we need to produce, which we need for craft work. A very small number of people. You have a significant need for plumbers in Belgrade. So, I'm talking about once-in-a-lifetime basic crafts that we've had before. Today we have them in a great deficit, because things change, and those people who don't follow modern currents, they don't follow what's happening in society, what's happening in society, they can't keep up with the modern world. We have to take steps of seven miles so we can compete with them. Recently when I was in China, I was driving a train from Sujo to Shanghai, that's about 120 kilometers in 23 minutes. That train goes, people, 302, 305 kilometers an hour. He's not actually going, he's floating, it's that magnetic field above, so you can't literally feel anything. That means that we can't settle for more tracks than 100 kilometers an hour, even though we're still on average going 30 and a couple of miles an hour, it was 26 kilometers an hour two years ago, but we have to try to reach the world and at least to build shares like that and make them, which we can step up with the world. I think it's crucial and I think it's the things we've shown we can do. What's not good in the budget this year, because some wrongly said it was a reason for a smaller deficit. It's not. It doesn't even matter if it's twice as big to not even notice on the savings and on the good results we've made. But what hasn't been good so far is that we had 17.3 billion, so that's about a hundred and 30 million euros less spent on capital investments in the one where we were supposed to create greater GDP growth. Now it's going well in the second half of the year, but it's like we woke up from a winter dream somewhere in May or June, as if we missed the first part of the construction season from our corner, not talking about corridors, highways, and not just talking about that ministry, but I'm talking about other ministries that have capital investments, which are five or six months late, and that's the only problem with the budget, the only regret of our spending in 2015. I'm telling you this objectively, if you will and partially professionally because I think I just... You don't have to wave or throw at me. I've already told you a few times, you learn a little bit at school and a little more in one place. I'm sorry you didn't understand. We're already... But don't worry, all the people see. We planned a budget of 121.8 billion for this year. In order for people to understand in Serbia the plan and our programme, our idea was, which the IMF approved for 2015, that our deficit would be 192 billion. This is what any man in Serbia can understand. That deficit will be with everything we've taken over, which the former government has left us with debts to the amannet will not exceed 85 billion. We've been very conservatively predicting again in agreement with the IMF so that there won't be a bounce, to hold and maintain stability all the time, we've predicted that our deficit is 121 billion. It's already 71 billion less deficits than we were expected for 2015. I can say with almost certainty at this greatest risk of these 17 companies, which we have already talked about, for which we haven't had a solution for decades, with that risk I can safely tell you that this deficit will be lower, which is once again Serbia's great success and that GDP growth will be higher, which means the growth of living standards, which means immediately afterwards, the increase in wages and pensions and everything else. The only question is whether or not we will be able to cope with what is the biggest task for Minister Sertic. What's in front of the finance ministry, it's hard, but we've already been through more than 50% already, more than 50% of it. They've got extra tax reform coming up, they've got an extra fight against the gray economy, but we've been through most of it already. Where our biggest problems, where our biggest troubles are, are in the end of the privatisation process, it's in the change of spirit, in the change of consciousness, in the creation of this entrepreneurial spirit. There will be a big and hard job of the Ministry of Industry, a big and hard job of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I believe they'll do a good job. We predicted for 2016 the revenue, as I said, very conservatively and in advance I can tell you that the revenues will not be slightly higher than those we predicted. But like I said, I always like to predict something less than getting into a situation where we lie to ourselves and lie to the people, so we have three rebalancings, like some of them had here, because they never calculated it. You know, some here today have shown their great knowledge, not making a difference between the net VAT and the gross domestic VAT, and still giving us lectures, giving us sermons, and making fun of it, says a lot more about you than it does about any of us and these people who don't think anything funny. But what I do, I guess, is a picture and opportunity of knowledge, education, and I'd say the work and diligence of each and every one of us. What is important, the honourable Members of the people, is that the expenditures are 1,199 billion. The biggest increase in expenditure is in the cost of interest, because some professional and very serious people have been taking credits from us for the short term to five years, with an interest rate of 7.5%. They were so professional. Today, on the financial market, we take long-term 10-years, with a two-year and grace period, so that we do not cross 4.3 – 4.4%. Well, just look at the difference. Of course, we can't replace everything, but we believe that even more favourable loans and money that we have to finance a small deficit, but we have to finance other guarantees that we've given both for infrastructure facilities and for certain businesses, we're going to be able to replace some of those loans. To succeed in replacing them with more favourable loans, with longer repayment deadlines, and that the next government will not be as burdened as we are in 2016. The year 2016 is about interest payments for us the hardest year. We should return in 2016 a billion and 300 million euros, because experts have so well and professionally led this country to get us there. Then you can think of what a good result we actually have and how much we have the primary surplus every month and all year, when you have in mind that we pay that much interest, but we pay it. We pay her regularly, we are not late, as we are not late in salary payments, as we are not late in pension payments, as we are not late in transfers payments, even though certain local self-governments do not provide their fees in time, and therefore rarely late payments to teachers in pre-school institutions. That's why I understand teachers and educators who are asking for it to be transferred to the state level, even though it's only for us to have greater pain and greater problems. Because they know that the state, that the Republic is much more serious about this matter, that it is much more correct and that it must not be late in our country for a single day. Look, you have at least two or three countries in the region and some pension-paying territories, and they're always late for the next five or six days. Then in the fiscal year, they actually take one and a half pensions or something. It's impossible for us to happen. That's why I said that we still have public finances on the level that they have to be in a year or two, but almost like a pharmacy. Well, I wouldn't compare it to the den we entered and the ones we inherited in public finances. I think it's a big advantage and it's a big deal for the citizens of Serbia and they understand that. We've been planning severances bigger than around 14 billion, but here we have other problems, with Ms. Udovici's efforts and with the efforts of all ministers, I'm not satisfied with the energy that we've all provided on this matter to find solutions that would be precise, because we've always dealt with something else, and each of us has found that something else is more important than what is painful, than what is difficult, which means health for our economy. So that's one of the things that I'm not happy with how we've done in the current period of government work, but I am convinced that in the coming period, with much more determination and concrete approach to that problem, we will be able to solve it. Subsidies are about 5.5 billion higher, but with significant changes and structures, we have increased subsidies to the public company "The Railway", because this is a participation in the Russian loan. You know that we have to pay 15% of the participation in the Russian loan, but this certainly and significantly affects the change in our railway infrastructure, which, as you yourself could see, was literally at the level of the 1884th century, when King Milan managed to get through the needle ears of the railway through Serbia. Transfers and social security funds are 14 billion lower than the 2015 budget, despite a linear increase in pensions of 1.25% and an extraordinary adjustment of military pensions. It's, by the way, an effect of about 1.5 billion a year. And that's where we paid for your mistakes, and that's your disastrous mistakes. After what, Alexander, is it seven or eight years? So, after seven or eight years, we today have to pay the price of someone's irresponsible, irresponsible behavior. But what do you do? Today, as you can see, one way or another, not throwing away, we can't pay the interest, we can't pay, I don't know what, but we can pay for what we didn't pay in the meantime. This shows how healthier the state is and how much better the state of public finances is than it used to be. What is important to us and what I did not end up in response to Mr Krkobibic, we have several important items to support the economy in the coming period. We should soon sign a new contract with the EBRD, which has partly worked on a small number of businessmen, Serbian small businessmen above all, where they provided support of 5,000 euros at a level of between 1,000 and 1500 people. We agreed to increase that support to 10,000 euros, that we participate with the rest of the money, but to try to increase it to five or ten thousand, but that they should be you, that it is not the government, that it is the EBRD, that there is no party lines, that they are the ones who will choose the projects to invest that money, and we will give it. In advance, I know that half of this is going to go to waste and that's happening in all of the Western countries. But if we get out of it, if we get out of tens of thousands of new entrepreneurs, new small businesses, whose projects and ideas worked, and they had the support of the state, they had these initial tens of thousands, then we managed to do something, and I think it's a big, serious and important result. Also, we will, so that you understand, because we have heard about transparency and it was very important to me today that I could read to you everything from A to S in dinar, that there is nothing intransparent and that the Fiscal Council here shows that we haven't been hiding anything, I don't know now formally, legally and technically how to spend it, we can also put it in the explanation that we are either in the Budget Act itself through the amendments, however you wish, we are prepared to do so because we are all clear and transparent and we don't hide anything, but just so you know, we are facing problems. There must be control, but there must be some kind of trust in the state, because in 2016, we're going to lose some of the investors and you need to know that in advance. Because some other countries offer more money, bigger subsidies, and they can only do so on the minister's own initiative. They don't have any restrictions. We have thus lost in the previous two years at least ten companies that would always come to Serbia, but we have not been able to measure ourselves with the conditions some other countries have offered, because they offer more money. The other thing is that after that part of it doesn't meet, and that's why one part of those factories comes to Serbia afterwards. But because of the general mistrust, the general climate of protection against corruption, and most of it insists on those who probably go from themselves, because as the late Tijanic said, everyone moves within the limits and limits of their own corruption, knows what he would do, so he imagines that someone else in the government is doing it, which is why we didn't have enough opportunities. In the current budget reserve we left a billion and a half, if I'm not mistaken, 1.2 billion, I was wrong, I thought it was 1.5. That's 1.2 because we've given Tasovac 300 million more for culture. That's why we have 1.2 billion left from TBR. So it's also a significant money. But we also spend 1.2 billion on the fact that at the end of the year they come from 70 or 80 municipalities per Serbia because municipalities are in catastrophic condition, with a huge fiscal deficit, that we have to help them with one-off payments. Somewhere you can't accuse the current government, somewhere you can charge it more than the previous one. However you turn, the problems are countless. But we managed to save that too, to have that kind of opportunity for these, say, factories in Novi Sad, for which we fought hard against two neighboring countries, we fought hard with two neighbouring countries. It's a hell of a competition. That's why we had to leave the possibility to help further because we want 3,500 people to work. You did not cover only Novi Sad, you helped part of the Vrba municipality, there towards the Dragon, and you helped part of the Temerina municipality, according to Jark, and you helped part of the Baco-Palanica municipality, there from Begeč to chelarev, thus helping the section on this side of the Sremska-Beocina, Kamenica, etc. So, what I'm saying is that you have to keep all this in mind. So I ask you, People's Messengers, to understand all this. What I'm saying is that at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, we have a few important things. Indeed, for the first time in many years, even though we are still not satisfied, there was this incident about paying off the 13th salary, or I don't know what to call it, and every time it happens, it happens. What do we do? Now we're gonna make up for it. This has led workers to the difficult situation of "Srbigas" unnecessarily, because people usually think that the more they pay, the better the directors are, the more successful ministers are if they have a bigger budget. It's an old self-government consciousness. And the best ministers who spend the least and good were Dacic talking about these costs and results. Would you like to see our lists? How many fewer people go abroad? I'm not talking about ministers, ministers are disciplined and usually don't, but people from the ministries, agencies, businesses. Since the diaries have been reduced, suddenly there's no need to go abroad, because they've earned it. It was a source of profit, and the source of our fiscal problems. That's why you could have had a hundred million years ago for the Foreign Ministry, and now you can do the same and more jobs with 53 million. People, one Belgium has closed its representation, which is far richer than we are, in an EU country like Slovenia. So I just want to tell you that we're used to privileges and we're used to the same situation without wanting to change anything, not to follow what's going on in the world and not accessing it in a sufficiently serious and responsible way. As far as mining and energy are concerned, we're moving here to build a new warehouse at the Banat Court of a billion cubic metres, it's a huge thing for our country. That's more than half our annual spending. If we go to Itebej, we will be able to have total annual consumption in Serbia. If we end this with our Russian partners, the total annual consumption preserved in our warehouses and this will depend less on political change - whether the Turkish flow is lifted in one day, the Bulgarian current in the second day, or the South Stream, whether or not the gas is coming through Ukraine. We don't have natural gas for us. Someone mismanaged and brought bad things there in 2007 and 2008, but I'm not going back to it at all, about the exploitation of our gas, so today our MSK in kickinda can't get our gas at a production price of 30 to 40 dollars, but we now have to ask our Russian partners to do us a big favor to get us for 155 dollars. So, I mean, there's a lot of illogicality, but what to do. And with 155 dollars and MSK will be on the green branch, as is said in our people, as well as the Azotars, and will increase their production. What's important is that construction is under way at the Termo power plant "Kostolac B3", which is, I would say, the first major energy facility after 30 years. We managed this year to finish "Belgrade 2020" with which some, we were so happy, as boys we were looking forward to Antic and I and everyone when we opened it, and then I saw people say in Belgrade – well, it's a trapo station. Well, yeah, we just haven't built it in 35 years. Thirty-five years we haven't built it, and after 35 years we've been in Belgrade, except for the incident situations, for a minute or two, the current can't go away. It's impossible for that to happen. That's what we managed to do. It's big projects. These are the big things we've managed to do. I also think it is very important that in the coming year we finally know what we are doing with Resavico, what we are doing with Stavlja and we should start building an interconnector with Bulgaria. So, we're going to fight for it, and I've already fought for it, and we're going to fight for it to ensure as much funding from EU funds as possible. So, on our part, if I'm not mistaken, it should cost up to 68m euros. I'm already on the force, talking to Maroche Šefčovich, and I said that we accept that they pay 52 million. I'm not sure they're very happy that I said it in public, but we're going to fight for them to pay 52 million, and we're going to pay the other 16. We, which is very important to you, have achieved serious results and I am also grateful to Minister Ljajic at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Many laughed at me when I showed up in the Republic Square and when we promoted the idea of "My Serbia", when we talked about how beautiful our country is and that we had a lot to offer our tourists and when we made a voucher policy. So far, we've issued nearly 15,000 vouchers. It was not just five nights, but much more, a total of 120,000 overnights. With 120,000 overnights, thanks to this idea we paid a little bit, a little bit, almost nothing cost us, we provided 120,000 overnights and for the Break of Bath, first of all, and for Vrnjak Banja, the second largest, and for the Kopalnik and another hotel, I think it's in Kursumlia, whether it's Lukovska Banja or Kursumliska, I can't know exactly, and the fifth is Sokobanja. We've managed to increase that by 120,000 nights. We'll continue that policy and make even better suggestions for next year, even better suggestions. We have an increase in the number of tourists of 12%, and domestic and foreign -- domestic by 13% and foreign by 11%. Belgrade, of course, is still growing tourists. We have a huge increase in the number of tourists from Turkey, which is interesting. A significant number of tourists from Turkey are coming. This is where people get married, people get married, and we're gonna work on making that number even bigger. We will work on making Russian tourists even more, and right now I want to tell you that we are working on further attracting Russian tourists, doing videos for their largest national television and for the first time at their national tour operator Belgrade and Kopalnik are on destinations for Russian tourists. Also, we're doing it with the Chinese. We asked Velimir Zivojinovic, I think that the city of Belgrade did, and that he would give his message to Chinese viewers, as well as Novak Djokovic, whom I will personally ask, to give their message to Chinese viewers in order to secure a greater flow of Chinese tourists because they travel about 150 million outside China annually, and count on only 10% of them to be interested in this region, but to take cake from it, that is a huge thing for us. We will already try to make Belgrade in the New Year's Eve, and for the Serbian New Year, we will turn Novi Sad and Nis into major centres for attracting tourists. That's why I forced Sinisha to hurry up with this city's beauty because we've invested a lot of money in all this because we're going to bring the world's most famous and domestic stars to Belgrade. We want Belgrade to be for this new year's calendar literally the centre of the Balkans, but the centre of Southeast Europe, as we want to help Nis and Novi Sad for the New Year's celebration on the July calendar, and as a state, to attract tourists. We'll bet on it so we can make more money. For the first time, for people who go, travel around the world, I want to say that in June, you will see not only the pocket, but the big issue of eyewitness travel dk edition, so without which, without which you do not simply exist on the world's tourist map, after so many years as we exist and as Serbia-Montenegro and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and as the Republic of Serbia, we will also have this issue about the Republic of Serbia. I think it makes every one of you happy and it's a big, big deal and I think it's very good for our country. We will build new hotel facilities and create with several world companies contracts to further attract tourists because in two years' time we will have the most beautiful Double Yu hotel in Belgrade. We'll have, you know, what it looks like, like in Barcelona. We will have the best Saint Ridges Hotel which is a six-and-seven-star hotel, so it will be the best hotel Serbia has that will be raised in two years here. Already, these people who took it, you see it on the right side of the gazelle, they're doing it, I think they're working with the owners of the Bigz to take this building, too, so that even though it was a great and significant architectural knowledge today, it should be a magnificent building and the most brightest one in Belgrade. So, to move all of this slowly but surely, we are able to make a huge growth in our construction industry, which, with the processing industry, was most important to us in the growth of industrial production in the previous six months. After a long time, we managed to rebuild the construction industry and raise the processing industry. What's very important before the end of the year, I mean 27th and 28th or 29th, don't hold me to a visit to Serbia, and Turkish Prime Minister Davutoglu, they're without Mr. Even though we tell Davutoglu. He's coming to Belgrade, bringing in two planes full of Turkish businessmen, that's our chance, a great opportunity. They are interested in investing in spas, in privatising spas, making wellness hotels, spas, the best spas you have in Turkey, etc. Then we'll be able to attract even more foreign tourists than it was today. As for a very important project, find me here please school and hospitals. I have a lot of papers, so I'm sorry I can't get through this right now. So, as far as health and schooling are concerned, what the ministers are here to talk about the reforms that are necessary to implement, but what I can tell you is that we have accelerated the purchase and purchase of the most important machines in order to reduce and abolish the so-called. waiting lists and I think that in the next period very short, Zlatibore will no longer be any waiting lists. By the end of next year, there will be no more waiting lists. We bought the Gamma knife, which is the most modern in this region, in this part of the world. What's most important is we're going to go and I'm going to give you... No, especially you have, a special school inscription in a white folder. I'm going to read it to you now, but in any case, we're going to go to first work in certain homes of health and hospitals in individual schools. I think it's, uh, it's with me, and I think it's something that's of great importance, so social institutions have a total of 72 Alexandra, social institutions, if we're not mistaken, we're going to rebuild all 72, which is important for all the endangered categories of ours, but we're going to rebuild every school and hospital. I can't guarantee that everyone will be restored in 2016, but most of them will be restored and I'll check everyone out. Every one that's been restored, somewhere it's going to be smaller works, somewhere it's going to be much bigger works, but in each of us, we're going to make toilets, our kids go to clean toilets, have them, go to painted buildings, go to neat and clean buildings. That when they go to school that our old and our kids are taking them to hospitals and health homes after many years, they don't worry about whether they're going to be infected with some disease, but that they know that they're going to go in clean, that they're going to go into something that's good and they know that we're going to rebuild it every few years and that we're never going to get into this situation again. What is open to schools is the “Svetozar Marković” Vračar elementary school, “Dusan Popović” Rekovac, “Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj” Aleksinac, “Mitropolit Mihailo” Soko Banja, “Sveti Sava” Vladikin Han, in Zaječar three schools, Ivanjička gimnasija, Knić, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Čačak, Valjevo, gymnasium and elementary school “Milovan Glišić” Petrovac at Mlavi Šabac, “Laza Lazarevic” Krupanj, three facilities has a school called Petar Vragolić” Ljubovija, a secondary school called Doljevac, Bela Palanka, Žablj. These are pictures of people and I showed you some of those pictures last time, and in the meantime we found some worse pictures. This is the "King Peter II" elementary school in Užica, if you, dear MPs can see it now, I did not ask for this in Bosilegrad or Shop we found this in Užica. So, in the seat, in the center of the Zlatibor district, where it would be really scary and you think it's possible that these conditions could be in school. As for the homes of health, the first health care facilities in which wet knots will be recovered and internal walls painted. We'll see what else we can do about it to do some more work. There will be a House of Health Trade, right where we are the poorest, Home of Health Vračar, Home of Health Nis, Home of Health Smederevo, Home of Health Zemun, Clinical Centre of Serbia, Clinical and Hospital Center of Starar, General Hospital Kraljevo, Health Centre of Književac, General Hospital of Cuprija, Home of Health Bajina Basta, Home of Health Bosilegrad, General Hospital Petrovac at Mlava, General Hospital Loznica, General Hospital Priboj. Here's a picture of you from the Serbian Clinical Center today. From the Clinical Centre of Serbia, who at all times have 8,000 employees and count still so many patients. So at all times 15,000 people The Clinical Center of Belgrade is a small town, not even such a small town, so look at the condition we've been keeping it and keeping it safe. These are the things the government is going to do to the most of its resources. We expect part of the donation and part of the support from the EU. We're grateful to them for that. I want to say why we're grateful about this, because sometimes I can't say it the best way and maybe it's my fault. If you look at what we did after the flood where that office did a huge job and today you're going after Serbia and we're still building the dikes, what we can't see, what people don't even want to say, because someone's doing and building it, but we've done more objects in the last year than in the last 30 years. In the last year of the dam, the embankment, the bridges, we've been in total for a year to know what bridges or what you're going to call them, built 316 per Serbia. I think it's a big and important thing and people need to know. We think that's what we should do and we can do it and we can protect the rinks. Soon we will end the problem of Umika, which Mr. Ilic has been dealing with for so many years, and many other problems have been solved. I think we're working on Lebanese. I think we have a few other cities in eastern Serbia besides Lebanese where we need to solve these problems. So it's our desire to get it all done and get it over with. But if we get to thousands of schools and homes of health and hospitals, and we don't get to all of them, I think that's huge progress compared to everything we've done in the previous period, but it's our intention to literally try to get there because we have a large number of construction companies who want to participate, who can participate and who can quickly finish these works. So that's what school and hospital are all about. As far as culture is concerned, a few things matter to us. Tasovac will always insist on the Year of the Film and understand why. What we insist on is the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, but above all to help smaller places in Serbia because activities in the fields of culture and cultural spheres cannot be reserved only for Belgrade where we will try to make that kind of dispersion. The National Museum is a national matter. The National Museum serves to see the Gospel of Miroslav and there is a great thing that has been done by the Ministry of Culture, which I expect to see this torn leaf arrive to us from Petrograd, which we will finally have a complete, unique act of Miroslav's Gospel. This is the act that King Alexander received, if I am not mistaken, in 1896, when he bought all the debts of the Hilandar monastery from the Bulgarian Zograf upon his return from Athens, and in fact preserved Hilandar with the Serbian monastery, so we, we Serbs, gave it back to him seven years later by throwing him over the terrace, previously stabbing him more than 26 times. Well, we are Serbs. You couldn't live in that period, I didn't understand that wit and that joke, if that was a joke. Looks like we have a different sense of humor. Yeah. What is a great and difficult task ahead of us is a fierce fight against corruption and these are reforms in our judiciary. It won't go easy, it won't go easy because of the countless problems we face, because of habits and habits of inefficiency. But listen, I also told the world's biggest officials that we're not afraid of our work, that we're not afraid of our efforts and our engagement in any way, that everything that depends on us that we're going to do, but that stability in the region is preserved and that no one is jeopardizing peace in our country and in our environment. That's why we're having a lot of trouble, a lot of trouble. I believe we'll be able to do that. As for the Department of Defense, we have really good results here, but I want you to know, now 25th, 26th. Finally, the complete paperwork for Nora arrives at TOC. Which means, after their three-month review, we go to Nora's serial production and to the domestic market, or we go to Nora's serial production for our army. That's how we have a killer and a strong answer. That's what I can say. There are things I don't want to talk about, because I can't do it in front of the local public. We have a strong and murderous response to all those who thought buying a pancer of hoodies could lead Serbia into a difficult situation. So we're going to have a more destructive and powerful weapon of our own production, in which a Russian truck with an independent hanging, because we're still not in a position to produce a truck that can carry 35 tons, that has an independent hanging, but I believe we'll succeed in the next period. So, the more we do, the more we have the French tube, the more we rely on domestic production, the more we make and do it in the Great Plan, in the new factory, and I believe we'll keep doing it. At the end of March, we are moving into serial production for both domestic and foreign markets of Lazara 2, which is incomparably better than Lazar 1. This will provide a response to those in the region. They're all defensive answers. We are merely showing that we are able to protect our country. We never plan to touch anyone. We want peace, but we always need to know that we are in a position to protect our country. This Lazar 2 is incomparably better, incomparably and more expensive and incomparably better than the Patrija produced in Đura Djakovic with the license that was obtained. So we talked to some other Western friends about ballistic missiles, hoping those ballistic missiles won't show up in the region. But I want to inform you that if anyone thinks they need to get ballistic missiles that we will find enough power to defend our country and from that. What is our wish, what is our desire and intention, why I said this with great commitment and Minister Gasic and the whole team and many people from the SDPR, but also from other companies of our purpose, and from Lucan, from Cačak, from Užica. Soon there's a new factory in the Uzics, where we'll be making ammunition from 5.65 to 12.7 millimeters. We wanted to co-operate with another factory in the former Yugoslavia, they wouldn't give us a technological know-how. We are now buying a new production plant of 30m euros from Belgium and then we will be able to have anti-aircraft ammunition to produce 12.7mm. So, everywhere the contracts are reached, for at least a year and two presupposed jobs. We have now invested 10m euros of new ones, above all in the Red Flag. We've invested in Teleoptic Gyroscopes. So it's our intention, we've had some problems with the pipes, and now we want to solve it with new technology that there are no more of these problems. I think the Serbian military industry will find an increasingly wider presence on the international market. I'm telling you this, not because of this defensive aspect, as far as I'm telling you because of the economic aspect. It's our commitment that we produce and employ people and always be able and at all times to produce what we need, and I think we're getting more and more capable from year to year to do it. Also, I think that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, I am very grateful to the MUP, and to all police officers, of course, and the ministries have accepted significant savings, understood the needs of the state, did not fight to take from their own country, and that the state is slowly but certainly failing, as was the case in earlier times. Don't forget not to say by accident that the worst money, the money that's easy. You had a case of great Spain that went bankrupt in 1557, because they had a lot of money and a lot of wealth taken from all over the world, but they didn't spend it responsibly. They didn't invest it in production and development, but it was just from stakes and ropes, so take it and spend it. So Spain so powerful a force in 1557 in the modern sense of the word went bankrupt. These are things that can't happen to us. Better that serious, light growth, but to be firm, on safe feet, and to slowly fix things. Also, uniforms, I think they have, Nebojsa, after many years of new, good, that we will invest even more in equipment, that we will invest even more in buildings and buildings, police with even worse facilities than the military. I believe we'll be able to make these people happy. Slowly but surely they will feel it on their own incomes, that they can live better and that, as they have so far, perhaps even more, they are proud to do their job. We'll also work on tools and equipment for the M.O.P. Soon you'll be able to see our weapons production, or the good part, most of it, our production, our rifle, where you don't have to show up with a gun, you can shoot around the corner with that gun, because of the cameras and the computers we have. We'll make it. So we want to expose our armed forces to the lowest and possible risk. Soon we will promote it here in Serbia and show it. So you're standing behind the house, just behind the wall, you push out the gun and you shoot in a certain direction, and you see exactly on the cameras, where, how and how you shoot, along with computer guidance. Everything that seemed to be possible until recently in American movies, and that will be possible here in Serbia to become part of the weapons of our police and our military. As for employment, which is one of the key very important things for all of us, I must say, I am satisfied with the results in 2015. You can never be overjoyed as long as you have tens and hundreds of thousands of people waiting for work, but one negative trend that grew in geometric progression we managed to stop, and not just stop it, but to reduce it by arithmetical progression. It's the most important thing for us to have to work together with the Ministry of Education and Education, but we're all going to have to work on it, which is how to strengthen and change the entrepreneurial spirit of the people. But the NSZZ will also have to have better results, we'll need more inspectors in the IRS, but more labour inspectors. Because part of the people we're thinking about right now is getting severance, part of those people we can hire where we need them. We always need them in the IRS, in the labour inspection. It's impossible for one Bor to have one work inspector. It's impossible. That he's the most honest man in the world, they'll find him some flaw and he won't be able to do his job the way it's supposed to be done anymore. We need at least seven, eight. I am convinced that we have the strength to do so, we have the opportunity to resolve it in the next period. I listened to Snow White talking about agriculture, and I listened to Jadranka talking about European integration, and I don't want to talk about it anymore. It will take enormous energy and Snow Whites, but also for all of us to essentially change our relationship to agriculture, so that our subsidies no longer be a social category, that we don't give three, five, or six thousand dinars, plus manure, plus fuel, so that it's a social category for someone to have a better account for their production. We need it to be an economic category. If we're subsidizing from a dinar, no more, a dinar, to have that dinar invested in agrotechnical measures, to have that dinar invested in equipment and machines, to change ourselves there so we can make progress. We're missing fruit-processing factories, vegetables, meat, everything. The processing plant is missing thousands and we will try to bring in and talk to many from the West, but we are also talking to Turks who are extremely interested in the inability to go to the Russian market at this point. We couldn't take advantage of that opportunity enough because it takes to build a processing plant, it takes between five and 15 million, some others have banks that, but they didn't destroy their own companies that could finance it and who would do it. So these are things through the different areas that we've been doing, that we can do. The upcoming year in sports is the Olympic year. In 2015 she was one of the most successful in the history of Serbian sport and cadet and youth and I would say paralympic and our seniors in different disciplines. In 2016 we expect and now someone will be surprised when we say, the task is to have twice as many medals as in London. The successes of Partisan in Europe in football and the Star in basketball are not random, that for the first time you win German, Dutch and other teams, whether you win or not in Serbia, because there is a change and a different attitude, so I am telling you in advance that in the most difficult competition we will have twice as many medals because we are investing in money. We've allocated money to prepare bigger than ever, we've singled out for rewards bigger than ever. So we're going to bring that government regulation where we're going to further stimulate them for the Olympic Games, where we're going to increase at least from 35,000 to 40,000, in individual sports to raise to 50,000 euros. Such rewards are given by only three or four countries in the world. We want to promote our country, show good results. We have no problems with the fiscal deficit, it is to the joy of our people and to the joy of our athletes, especially those from sports where not enough is earned. You know, a waterpolitan when he gets 30,000 euros for the world title, that's a lot of money for him. He can't easily get it, three of them can, Filipovic, Prlainovic, Pietlovic, I don't know who else, get it in some club. So it's big money and we're grateful to them, they don't do it for money, but they're happy to know when the state says they'll pay, to pay it right away. Vanja did it precisely, it was the case with the cocoars, the canoeists, the rowers, our athletes, with many of whose medal areas we're not used to. Now we're paying off everything that comes in just a second. There is no such thing as the former case – call the Director of the Treasury, so whether there is money or no money. Wait, if you're in a strong political position, you'll get in seven days, and if you're not politically strong, you can't get 70 days. That was in my time there for ninety-seven years. I couldn't get in line for three months. It was 2008 and 2009 and 2010, you know. Call the Director of the Treasury and make it worth my while. He's gone. The cash flow is bad, there's no money in the vault, so they have to wait another 15 days to pay off the minister's orders. Now it pays off in a second everything. When a warrant arrives, that's when it's paid. We force them, Nenad, to pay for everything so we don't have any obligations left. We're forcing our IRS to sign. Just sign everything you need from vomiting, don't leave us for next month or next year, and we'll pay everything. These are the changes, so you can see the growth of the economy, because what is our obligation, we reconcile them. The attitude of the state is different to the economy, not what you can take from the economy, not what you can give it, but fulfill your commitment to the economy. That's what's changed. This was the second part of my exposure. Thank you again for your attention. We have good results, we'll have even better results. The next four or five years are years of dynamic growth, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41036	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41037	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable members of the Government, Mr. Prime Minister, we haven't heard anything here in the assembly of something new in the afternoon part of the session, especially from the MPs, representatives of the former regime, and we have been able to hear that this is the worst budget of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps the worst in the last 20 years, that budget revenues are unrealistic, that transfers by funds are reduced, that expenditures are politicised. I'd like to bring it down to two kinds of MPs. The first ones who read numbers who don't know what they mean and others who've asked questions and who don't want to hear the answers on that matrix they've had since they've lost so much power. To remind ourselves only when it was the National Bank Act, they were talking about how we're going to print dinars, how we're going to cause unemployment, how everything in Serbia will fail if one law changes. Those were their achievements. Now, I would understand that some things are said by some MP whose first term is this, let's be others, but I can't understand MPs who have been MPs for more than a decade, and some have even been ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that they don't know that, say, funds are being filled in two ways. One is from the contribution to the fund, and the other from the Republika Srpska budget. If you have fewer transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the mass paid out of these funds is equal to or greater, then what? That these funds are better charged from profit, I doubt the public sector because we've limited and reduced wages. Looks to me like it's from the real sector and two basics. Based on the increase in the number of employees and on the rise in real sector earnings, and this is one MP who has been a former minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia for 10 years, should know. It's easier for them to perform. I'll try to explain to the citizens why. For example, they keep mentioning investments from the Republic of Serbia's budget to be implemented. They say different numbers. So much was 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. How are they super perfect? For example, no one will say that the budget according to a consolidated account requires investments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be in 2016 136 billion dinars, they will not say. But that's why they're gonna talk about how they made some of the paths that looked like skadar to me on the Bojana. The money was spent, the roads were gone, and the public workers went bankrupt. I guess that's why they tell us that this budget is unrealistic and bad. I'm going to give another example of what it's like when someone catches power, so they either don't know they're ruling or they don't want to know they're ruling, because when it comes to money, I don't believe in coincidences. There have been a lot of stories about how much our foreign trade deficit is, I'm not talking about public debt, I'm talking about foreign trade deficits. There are various examples of how investments are small, especially, direct, indirect, etc. I took out some data. In 2008, the foreign deficit was 21% of gross income, i.e. six billion and 300m euros. Or, for example, in 2011, at that time they were slightly more successful, the external trade deficit was 12% of GDP, i.e. three billion and 600 million euros. I'm saying this to get to the structure of the budget, the one we're discussing today. So, in just two years, ten billion euros is our deficit in foreign payments during the government of Boris Tadic and DS. How did they make up for that foreign trade deficit? There are many ways. One way is foreign investment. They weren't there, they weren't even close to covering this amount. The other way is credit. Well, of course there were, now we're bringing them back. The third way is to sell foreign reserves, and that's what it was. The fourth, worst, which you also used while you were in power, is printing money. Now you're taking care of the citizens of Serbia. What's the consequence of printing money? Inflation, and then you give allegedly raises to pensioners and the public sector of 2-3%, you have an inflation of 14-15%, so you've increased someone as something, I just don't know who. The second consequence is the growth of the euro's jump. Okay, let's just say it's only about loans, but who has all these loans? Citizens - they lose to living standards, businesses - it's a real sector, it loses capital and closes. That's why we had 200,000 new unemployed during your government, people who had jobs, so they lost it because you were playing with the state. You're playing with the data now. This is all accurate data, your official, we haven't changed them at all. Or, let's show how the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing now. The expected external trade deficit for 2015 is around a billion and 500m euros, compared to the gross product 4.7%, ending on the 10th month of 2015, right in the foreign investment dinar, a billion 231m and 400 000 euros, almost entirely ironed out at this point in the foreign payment deficit, means that it is zero. No primary show, no new loans, and you can see that anything can be done whenever you want, but the problem is that you didn't want to do it. Now we have another situation, that's to say - why are we raising credit for the construction of a thermal power plant in Kostolc? Well, well, he says -- there's money in the power plant, but he didn't say we were building that thermal power plant ourselves, it would cost us about two million euros a megawatt, and with this loan, it cost us a million and 440 grand. The savings are over 200 million. Is it a problem that you're used to always having some commissions? With these dedicated loans, that's impossible. That's why you ask questions like that. Or, for example, they say -- the growth of gross products in Serbia is almost nothing. Give me a country in the environment, give me a country in the world that had austerity measures, that is, stabilising public debt that had an increase in gross income. She's gone. Now explain one other thing to me – how is it that when there were no austerity measures, you have a decline in gross products in 2008 by 4%? What did it bother you then? What bothered you to make the result you can be proud of? What, the global economic crisis? Well, it's still going on. But it was easier for you, you had 200,000 more jobs than we do now. You had something to sell, sell and whatever you caught, you ruined it. What did no one say when they're taking care of the pensioners, so they're threatening here by passing the constitutionality of the law, what about 60,000 military pensioners? Well, the government of Boris Tadic and Mirka Cvetkovic robbed them for four years. Why didn't you take care of them at the time? And those debts you made, whose government does that pay back? Yours certainly not. What is it about, say, coming back from the budget and guarantees, or JAT's loan? Look, JAT hasn't existed in over two years, 26 months exactly. You can't possibly say it's our debt. I asked in this same room, and I always ask, when those guarantees were, it's not a problem, you have most of them, you'll vote, just ask – who's going to pay you back? Now I know the answer, it brings back the government of Alexander Vukic, but you who have made the debts, you get ash and you don't think you have any obligations and any guilt for any of this kind of condition, and as you say, for the worst budget in Serbia's history. All these measures that the Government has provided for the 2015 Budget Law have been met and the plans have been relocated, even much better than we expected here in the debates. The budget for 2016 won't be any easier than the 2015 budget, especially for the government that has to repay 139 billion interest on your loans, or turn into euro, if it's easier for you. One more question to ask before I finish, which is, someone said that small increases are to the employees of education, health care, the M.O.P. Why don't you tell me how much this costs the state? Why don't you say it's 10 billion and more dinars? Why don't you say it's more than 100 million euros? How much is it for you big money when you're a hundred million euros short? What the hell are you used to? We will certainly support this budget from the SNS, because the budget that promises to get Serbia out of everything you've gotten her into, and now you're pretending to be ignorant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41038	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishic, why do you think you have the right to a replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He mentioned Boris Tadic twice. Here you are, you have a replica for mentioning the party's president. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41039	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government, since the same incorrect information is repeated repeatedly here, I will now, using exclusively information on the Ministry of Finance's website, in one table everyone can open, to say that they looked like finances when the majority led by Boris Tadic adopted the fourth budget during its term in 2011 and what they look like today when the other majority adopt their fourth budget. So this is the fourth budget most adopt. Not all ministers were here for four years, but some were, but they seem to have amnesia at the time. So, GDP, 2011 - 33.4 billion euros. The same, today – 32.8 billion euros, smaller, means, after four years, Serbia produces less total and that is the data that stands here in this table of the Ministry of Finance. Foreign direct investment, we heard from the minister, 1.6 billion. Number of unemployed in 2011 – 753,000, number of unemployed in 2015 – 751,000. Debt 14.8 billion outside, today over 24 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41040	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The President of the Government has the word. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: the same base. Mr. Sutanovac, you have the right to a replica, but the Prime Minister has the advantage. Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41041	In order for people to only understand, dear Mr. Djurisic, here's a little later I'll read to you what he said only a year ago, not someone else, he chose things from several different years, but the best possible results, not telling the full truth. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, he did not tell you that three billion investments, two billion investments by Miroslav Miskovic, namely the sale of Miroslav Miskovic to Delese. That's all he hid, and that tax was paid, except for one small tax, everyone else paid outside our country, and Serbia had almost nothing of it. What are you gonna do? I guess that's something you're proud of, only you should have told the people it was Miroslav Miskovic, not your ability. Will Miroslav Miskovic buy it again, as they say, or not, that's another thing? Just so people know what you're talking about. You're talking about the GDP that's going to be at 35 billion this year, which isn't enough, which is not good, but it's growth. You're talking about GDP growth. After 3.6% fell in 2009, which you failed to return to the 2009 level until the end of your reign. Don't look at one, but look at it for years in a row, because then I could tell you how successful it was in 2013, and it wasn't, because we missed it, regardless of the growth of 2.3%, fiscal reforms and many other reforms. What's a much bigger problem in all of this, it's a respectable, Mr. MP, which is 717,000 today, and it was much more, and it grew all the time in geometric progression. A huge effort is needed to stop this rise in the number of unemployed, and we did it. Unlike those of you who entered, when there were 300,000 unemployed, and led us to nearly 800,000 unemployed. Today it no longer grows to 900 million. Today it's going to fall and it's going to fall more and more and it's going to fall faster. I promised you a moment ago, Your Honor, we're going to have fast-tracking economic growth over the next four years. I've read all of your dilemmas and infidelity, preparing for today's session of last year's budget sessions. Everything you've just said, you've missed everything from the first to the last item, and most of the MPs sitting with you, about how much rebalancing we're going to have, about what we're not going to endure. We've improved everything, we've endured everything, we've had no rebalancing, we've had more income, and the expenditures are less than the ones we predicted. That's the difference. And so, look, you forgot another important item to tell the people, what a deficit that year was, so you'll see that it was almost twice as big and more than twice the size of today's year. Yes, I'll give you the exact information. With minus 4.8 and minus 6.8, it fell to minus 4.1, I'm talking to you in the general state, or to minus 3.3. I think it's almost twice as low, Marco. So I'm sorry, well you're right, 3.3 versus 6.8 is not twice as low, but it's a little bit lower than twice as low and by 4.8 it's 50% lower. You're right. It's not double, but 50%, a little more than 50% is lower. I think it's a huge difference. Do not underestimate Serbian citizens, do not underestimate the IMF, do not underestimate the World Bank, do not underestimate the EU. Better results, look forward to these results. These are the results, Marco, for both you and your family, and they'll be even better and they'll be much better, and you'll contribute, and they'll all contribute. And it's something that's important to the future of our children, not to talk about something that's bad, just to talk. It's good data, it's great data, and they can be much better. We need that kind of stability and that kind of responsibility that you and everyone else in this country are going to contribute to. So, I'm just asking you, you'll see later when I read everything everyone said just a year ago and what kind of bull they saw Serbia in a year and you'll get precise information about what it looks like today. The whole of Serbia will be able to see who was really telling the truth. I don't blame them. It's the work of the opposition. Don't talk about numbers if you're not behind those numbers. If I say today that we will build Corridor 10 and the southern and eastern arms by April 2017 at the latest, if I tell you that you will be going from Belgrade to Cačka highway, at the latest in March, April 2017, and there is little left, a year and three months until then, a year and four months before then, then I am responsible for that. That means we're going to do everything we haven't done in the last 68 years since we started building highways and corridors, and we're going to do it in two and a half years from this government. You can love me, you can hate me, you can love me, you can love or you don't love this government, but I think it's a good, excellent result and I think Serbian citizens have something to be proud of and shouldn't be told that something is worse than it is, like we shouldn't brag that something is better, if it isn't. That's why we came out with a conservative budget assessment, with a conservative estimate of our incomes, and I'm pretty sure that's what we're going to have, good estimates, future and good results. The most expensive cost us, Marco, in 2009 and the fall, a huge fall, a terrible fall, a dramatic fall from which we did not recover even from 2013 when we had a growth of 2.3%. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41042	Thank you, Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica of Mr Arsic's presentation. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Please, Mr. Djurishic, you have to wait, before you have the advantage of Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41043	If we wanted to be incorrect today, not to talk about the budget, to open all the topics that are open here, I would ask – excuse me, Prime Minister, what about the national stadium, it's nowhere in the budget, what about the 380-euro flats per square metre in Belgrade, which you promised to be finished by the end of the year, you promised a chip factory, you promised a boing factory, but it's not a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41044	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, you have received a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure and can only address Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41045	Who talked about the past from 1884 to today. So, to be very precise, the corporate income tax is projected to be lower by nearly eight billion. At the same time, excise income is projected to be higher by 40 billion. Who pays for excises in the country? Citizens of Serbia. The whole budget will be one tear from the back of Serbian citizens who have to pay increased electricity excises, which you have introduced, increased energy excises, increased alcohol excises, cigarettes, etc. I'm told I don't understand, I may not understand, but the country's profit tax was 104 billion, and it was projected 90. So it's a fall, whatever you call it. The finance minister wanted to hold some instructions, which I don't mind, but I'm curious how you think you're replacing these falls? Also, you have a situation where value added tax, I said, from imports rises from 292 billion to 333, as well as customs by 14%. What does Serbia plan to import in that quantity, which it did not import in 2015. So I'm asking very exact questions. There's not a single real tax here, income based on
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41046	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41047	You gave four minutes ago to a colleague, and I can't finish my speech for the last 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41048	What fellow spoke for four minutes, Mr. Sutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41049	He was talking to Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41050	Mr. Dacic is a representative of the government and he can...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41051	It can't be in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41052	Time for government representatives is not limited. You know that very well, Mr. Shutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41053	He can't do it in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41054	I haven't said for a moment that it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41055	How could you not say that? He answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41056	Mr. Sutanovac, I don't want to argue with you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: So, very exact data.) That's what you can see. ) Mr. Sutanovac, you are angry when you do not get the right to reply, when I estimate that you have no right, and now you have abused the Rules of Procedure, you have replicated the Prime Minister, and you have received a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41057	There was no need for anxiety and increased tone, not for one second. Any specific and non-specific question will be answered. You must learn something, Mr. Shutanovac. You've got to get some education. I didn't mean to offend you, but you don't know what an increase in exports means, which means gross domestic VAT and net VAT. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I know what it is. You don’t know at all, because you ask questions that show that you don’t understand it at all. When you increase exports then you reduce the net VAT and you understand that, every economist and anyone who has read one budget in a serious way, and you haven't read the budget. You had the budget -- give me as much money as I could spend and call the Director of the Treasury to do it, that's how you managed the budget. You've asked specific questions for the national stadium. If we have extra income, we'll go with it, when we have as much as we have. Of the 17 laws I promised we'd pass, we passed 16. Everything you've left us, even without mushrooms, we've hired people, and there's people doing it, from the Ironworks and beyond. So, from the ISK you closed, in that same year 2011, or in 2012, you'll forgive me, and you haven't left any mushrooms. You attacked some for mushrooms, you didn't leave any mushrooms. And now there's people back producing methanol, re-producing vinegar acid and doing good again and earning good money. So there's no need to show that kind of nervousness when we have good results. What's very important, is that you know, we're faster, significantly faster and you should look forward to it, we're growing exports from imports, and that's why there's a consequence that you're talking about. But that's good, not bad consequences. It's just the essence of what you don't understand. That's what Professor Vujovic tried to explain to you this morning, and I can see it didn't go away. So please understand, that's very good. You attacked me for something that is one of the best results of this government. That's the thing I'd ask you to understand. After all, you were here a year ago talking about how we have the most taxes in Europe and today you're talking about excises that they collect from citizens. So from whom do taxes come together in another land? Who do they collect from rather than from the citizens? I've never heard of them gathering from plants or in the animal world or anywhere else. They're always gathering from the citizens. I don't know who else to collect taxes from. The question is, are you able to charge them well and are you able to make sense, seriously and responsibly spend that money? That's what we're talking about today. Of course the state has to pay taxes to be able to spend. Our excise duty is so much bigger, first of all because of the fierce fight against the gray market of cigarettes, we have the biggest growth right in cigarette excises. As far as I know, the price of cigarettes hasn't changed in a while. Our oil excise is better, and because of the markers, as far as I know, the price of oil fell in the previous year. As far as I know, the price of gas was just dropping. Our electricity excise is not some new thing you're noticing right now, but something we talked about six months ago. So there are no new commitments to scare the people and the citizens of Serbia for free, there are none. We have the burdens that exist and that have always existed and that, I would say, will be unchanged, I hope not changed although we have serious problems with the price of "comidit" with the price of raw materials in the world. You know, with us it's common and something that has nothing to do with you, which is very specific and very important to our citizens, it's that we are much more disciplined and that people know that when we don't take from someone a fiscal account and when we don't insist on it, we didn't help anyone, so we damaged ourselves. That's how we hurt ourselves for roads and schools. That's how we hurt ourselves for hospitals. By doing so, we caused the most damage to ourselves and our children, regardless of who they were for, and the biggest problems we had ever made. That's why this kind of tax discipline is extremely important to us. That is why we should reward those who pay all taxes and we will also work on it, see how to encourage them to stay that way and be even better, as we will even more severely punish offenders, or those who avoid taxes and who do not pay taxes. That's how he behaves seriously, and that's how the responsible state behaves. But I ask you to find some, all together, it's a job to oppose government proposals, to find an argument and to always say some different arguments, some different facts. Please explain to us how is it that people from the IMF don't know their jobs, who praise tax collection, who say our VAT is great, that tax collection is great, better than they expected? How is it that even the people in the EU who gave the same assessment do not know that? Nobody knows that. You're the only one who knows that. It's possible, because there's this variant that was still in Milosevic's time, you know when Milos started introducing his first taxes, then the first greats gathered together, and then he started to get a part of the people together and say, "What's changed, what's we fought against the Turks, when we have to pay taxes again?" Because I guess that's the easiest thing to say to our people. Don't pay anything, don't pay electricity, don't pay taxes, vote for us, because our program is that we've provided money. It's for the little kids. That's underestimating the people. It's an underestimation of both the people and the state. People are no longer naive or uninformed that such a thing can simply pass. It just seems to me that a little more responsibility and a little more, I would say, insights and what's good, so to say – this is good, and that's why I was against the statement that the party I run issued against some other parties who said – the super government has done a fiscal deficit, it's no good for you. It was something new, it was something different on Serbia's political scene. Those who shout every day that nothing is wrong and see that the results are incomparably better, then don't be surprised at the very, very bad results they achieve in Serbia's political sky. What is much more important to us than any political debate, is that this budget is a good budget, a balanced budget, a conservative budget, but a budget that will provide a basis for more than 2% of GDP growth next year, a budget that will provide a reduction, not an increase in the problem in our fiscal, a budget that will provide security for pensioners and those who receive social assistance and support and a budget that will ultimately help, I believe as I have spoken to educational workers, and I am also talking about them, but also about workers in the field of culture, before the end of next year, that they too can feel the improvement of our reforms. So I'm talking about the public sector. All that when you add up, I think the results are good, that they'll be even better, and we haven't had that much stumbling, but I'm not saying anything about the Telecom decision, and I could tell you right now that we don't have enough projects and that we're going to the national stadium right now. Because we have to build a national stadium, like it or not. Much more important than the national stadium are the hospitals and schools we go to next year and the ones we invest in and we won't give up on. But we need more projects that we should be able to look for money on, because we're going to have money from privatisation revenues and to get back the catastrophic loans you've been taking, from 7.5% to five years in the short term, but we're going to have money to invest in new projects, all those we haven't done in decades, years before this moment. It's a serious and responsible approach. I'm sorry you don't like it that way, but given the strength of the arguments you're making, I can't even show you extra passion. It seems to me that every man understands and that quite slowly and calmly everyone can see and how good the budget is and how serious the results of the government are never good enough and can always be better. People understand that, but that the situation is much better than a year ago when we talked here in this high house, I have no doubt about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41058	I thank the Prime Minister. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41059	Let me add one illustration, one figure that best illustrates what the prime minister said. Look at the fiscal strategy you got a few days ago, page 30. Table 8. One dreary indicator of the general tax burden is the participation of tax revenues in the social product. It will remain at the level of 2015 at 36.6% this year and fall every year next year. So 35.7% in 2017 34.7% in 2018. So the tax burden is decreasing. All partial analysis of individual instruments is summed up here. This, as you know, is written in the previous table 7 – the deficit decreases from 4.1 to 4, to 2.6, to 1.8. So, the deficit decreases and the tax burden decreases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41060	I thank Minister Vujovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishich, you're looking for a replica, but I'm asking you to finish this circle of replicas. However, a large number of people are waiting to have the right to present themselves, so I'm moving on to the speaker list and the first speaker is Balint Pastor. Here you go, Mr. Pastor. Dragan Sutanovac throws it out of place. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Can't I have two minutes of replica?]] ) Mr. Sutanovac, please, a large number of people are waiting to talk about the important law, the budget of the Republic is important. Please let me... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Respect the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, I estimate that you do not have the right to reply. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: The man made me name and last name... You have the word, Mr. Pastor. Here you go. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: what's this about? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41062	Mr President-in-Office, Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Zoltan Peck, as the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians, spoke of these draft laws and announced support for the proposal for the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would just like to point out a few facts, and I would like to discuss a little more in detail the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture, since this bill is in the shadow of the budget, which is understandable. As far as the budget itself is concerned, I would like to say that it is extremely important, and very few words about it today, that two billion dinars have been provided for the Belgrade-Budapest Railways. This is what I think is an extremely important project, not just for the end, not just for the AP, not just for Belgrade, not just for Novi Sad, not just for Saturday, but for the entire Republic of Serbia. In addition, it is of paramount importance that, after a few years, funds have been provided for the so-called Ipsylon arm. I would like to thank the Prime Minister Mr. Vukic for keeping his word on July 2nd here in the National Assembly, when I asked the question about the project, I promised that the project would be in the budget for next year and we will continue thanks to the acceptance of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians amendment and the construction of the National Theatre building in Subotica, which I also consider to be a project not only of importance for Subotica and that region, but for the Republic of Serbia, because it is the oldest building of theatre in the Republic of Serbia. Because of that and for the rest of the reasons that my colleague's embezzled, we'll support the budget for next year. What I would like to talk about in a little more detail is the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, and I would say that there are several amendments here, and I hope that these amendments will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We understand the situation, the economic situation is difficult and we should take into account the potential of the Republic of Serbia's budget and we must not be irrational. The balance should also be placed between the need to invest in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia and the rest and the survival of small agricultural holdings. That's why we've submitted a few amendments. We think it's important that farmers know in advance what they can count on and on what means they can count on. We fought five or six years ago for it to be legal matter and for the law to determine how much of these subsidies will be in the coming year. Up to 6,000 dinars have been written in the law so far. We had two options when we were thinking about whether or not to submit any amendments. One possibility of a populist nature, we could suggest that everything remain the same, that would be unrealistic and, of course, would not be accepted. Another possibility is that we still give some limit, some minimum that agricultural producers would get. It is about basic incentives and regresses for fuel and fertilizer and seed. So far, it's been twice as many as 6,000 dinars. According to this proposal in the Amendments and Supplements Act, this amount could be 15 dinars and 120 dinars and 2,000 dinars per hectare per year, and we believe that it is not good and therefore we have proposed a solution to pay the funds per hectare of up to 6,000 dinars and not less than 4,000. We wrote that before the Fiscal Council revealed its opinion on it. If the Minister of Agriculture considers this amount to be different, then we can make amends. We can reduce that amount, but I think it would be very important if some limit existed and we were able to maintain a solution by which agricultural producers could plan their production in the next production year. In addition, one of our amendments refers to a solution proposed by the government to delete, and this is about support measures provided by local self-government units and the AP. I think it should be possible for the units of local self-government and AP Vojvodina to give these support measures from their resources, if there is any money for it. Unfortunately, on two occasions, we had to fight a battle to survive this solution. In law, we have twice managed to preserve this solution. Now this solution is in danger again. I hope our amendment will be accepted. For what? Here I read on the internet two days ago that, for example, Mayor Vranja, Mr Zoran Antic, otherwise, if I am not mistaken, from the Socialist Party of Serbia, signed agreements on the granting of incentives for agriculture of 15 million dinars. I think it's an excellent solution and it takes local self-government to do it if they have the means to do it. They probably don't have everyone and probably don't have all the local self-government in the same way. I ask you, Madam Minister, that we do not remove this possibility as an option from the law. You can also inform yourself about how the Agricultural Development Fund works, underlining the Fund for the Development of Agriculture of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41063	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41064	You won't find any abuse, you won't find anything wrong with the operation of that fund, and I ask you to provide farmers with this opportunity in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41065	Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic, come in. I'm sorry, the Minister wants to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41066	Thank you. Your Honour, we have received your amendments. I have already met their contents, and we will carefully consider everything that is in the spirit of the law and what is possible for us to accept. You understood today the message I sent to farmers and MPs. So, we want to establish a predictable system for paying subsidies to farmers in the future, given the experience of previous years when there have always been much more demands than the budget available. Last year, the government had the understanding of an increased number of requirements, i.e. requirements that had come in line with legal procedures and rules, but could not be reconciled from the available funds of the agrarian budget and identified additional funds. You know that last year, through rebalancing, we were additionally given to share as subsidies in the agriculture of 4.5 billion dinars. This year also registered a significantly higher number of agricultural holdings for subsidies. So a much larger number than it was possible to settle through the available budget adopted last year, thanks to the government and thanks to the understanding of the position of agricultural producers, it was found possible to respond positively to all requests. But what is not possible in the coming years is that simply for agriculture, as for any other branch, no rules of planning apply. We are expected to have to fit in as well as other sectors that fit together and plan forward funds. That is why, in line with government policy, in terms of fiscal consolidation and economic austerity measures, we had to accept this model contained in the Encouragement Act, i.e. in the amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. So nothing will change much more, except in that part of the plant production. We have 33,000 new agricultural holdings this year, which we didn't count on. So they signed up after the budget was adopted and that's what led to the government now having to react through additional funds, and 9.7 billion, you'll agree, it's really extremely big money. So, since we singled out 20 billion for plant production incentives last year, this year might be slightly smaller, but about that level. It is indeed an extremely large sum that this budget cannot bear and therefore, as an optimal and acceptable solution, which is otherwise a solution applied in EU countries, what is given in law is given. So, after applying, addition of the number of hectares to be subsidized in one year and available funds, that measure will also determine the height of incentives per hectare. I must also say that, as another security guarantee for planning, we have introduced that in the coming years, the budget planning cut for agriculture in the current year is a real year, in conclusion with September 30, in order to have that security in planning again. They will all receive funds, someone will win in the current year, and those new in the following year, which I don't think will in any way endanger agricultural producers or agricultural production, since they are all other measures, especially when it comes to livestock measures, when it comes to rural development measures, when it comes to incentives for investments in agricultural production, remain at the same level. So these were the only reasons why we had to propose these amendments and the additions of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, and again I say, all this is in line with what is being applied in other countries of Europe and in the surrounding countries. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41067	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41068	Dear Mr. Pastor, just two remarks. I don't know if you said it essentially or ironically when you were talking about Vranj. I'm afraid there's not a $15 million surplus there and it's gone at all, but there are elections and other things coming, so it's important that people be told something. It would be good if it were, if that money were spent on anything, especially if it was spent on agriculture. I'm afraid if we could get into the paperwork a little bit, we'd see things don't work out that way. That's usually our problem. Because we have countless ideas and countless things to spend money on, especially money we don't have, and especially money we haven't earned. That's what we're great masters for. We all know how to spend it, but we just can't make it where and how they make it happen. The Minister told you about 33,000 new landladys. And how are they made? With the simple and complex division of those of over 20,000 hectares who had real and false divorces, the fact that they had both sister-in-laws and snorkels and everyone else and became owners, but why? Well, just to avoid payment, that is, to ensure that the state pays at the same level as before. So, to call things the right name, all the subsidies we give literally, they don't go into tractors, they don't go into combines, they don't go into other machines, they go into survival. I understand agricultural producers, but we need to make a more serious agriculture that can answer more seriously. Can we do that with three, five, or six thousand? We can't. But also, it won't save anyone, and especially we can't do that by giving up money we don't have. I tell you in advance, I didn't see all the data, send any house, send any inspection, you'll make sure I was right. As for the other things you've been talking about, I think it's very important that we showed in this budget, with your support, with your help, your political organisations, that we don't want to make any difference between the majority people and members of all minorities, and especially the Hungarian minorities who have a significant influence in northern Serbia and investment in cultural institutions, or institutions of culture in northern Serbia, but I would say investment in infrastructure. Not only is the Belgrade-Budapest railway, which is of great importance to us, although many do not understand, because this is why Belgrade and Budapest are traversing the link and link between Central and Western Europe with southern and eastern Europe. This becomes the most important corridor and part of the so-called Silk Road, where Jinping insists and who specifically agreed with Polish President Dud and with Czech Prime Minister Bohuslov Sobotko, as well as with us and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. So we'll keep working on it and we'll insist. What we're talking about, this "pission leg", which isn't cheap, we're hopefully going to be able to attack that stock from part of the privatisation income and finally do it, as we're going to talk about the line of Subotica-Segedin-Baja. I think it is very important for members of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian national minority in our country. As you could have done so far, you can always suggest, but I just want to tell you that, regardless of what the election is coming to us and that I know that the easiest way to get to the minds of people is by giving up and by keeping things the way they are, I would be very sad, very indisposed, not only as Prime Minister, but as an ordinary man, if we couldn't, we wouldn't be able to realize the arrival of "Tenis". Because it's going to make a much more powerful industry than anything we've ever done. Because it's going to make our exports grow again, which many don't understand what it means, and it's going to grow back in GDP, which we're going to have at least 500,000 the first year, and in the second year, millions of pigs more than we've ever had before. Because the stock fund is going to rise dramatically, and we were at the level of 1910 a year ago. So, at least we managed to stop it from falling further, even though it would be unimaginable to be worse than it is today. We therefore expect you to understand us and to help us and to explain to the people, to explain to those who are not tycoon interested. Because usually people talk about small farmers, and all that country ends up in tycoon hands, which they then distribute in the way and at the cost at which they want it and at which they want it. So, to help us in this business, and you can't convince those who won't be convinced and who won't even hear, let alone listen. But we can always convince those well-intentioned who understand the state, who love the state and who want to hear the arguments. That's why I'm asking you and your political organization to help us with this hard work, because I'm afraid we'll get into serious trouble without it, and our results won't be good enough. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41069	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Balint Pastor for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41070	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for these explanations. I just need to say - I didn't speak ironically of the Crow. I'm very careful about that, especially when I'm talking about southern Serbia. I didn't speak ironically of it, I quoted just one piece of news that Mayor Vranj allocated funds of 15 million dinars, city incentives in agriculture. I don't know if that's true. I don't know if that's what happened. That was Fonet's news I read. I only took this as an example to illustrate that this is not only done in the AP Vojvodina, but also done in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. We are in favour of leaving the possibility to both Vojvodina and local self-government to assist agricultural producers. Maybe it's not the kind of time they can do it, but maybe those opportunities will be in a year or two. I hope this farm incentive law doesn't change every year, that we'll bring this in and it'll be valid for a few years. We stand for the survival of that possibility, undermining -- possibilities, not obligation, but the possibility that whoever can, that's how they finance it. As far as agriculture is concerned, Mr. President, I absolutely agree with you, and that's why I just said that we need to find a balance between the need to invest in agriculture. You know we're not a party that demagogues, especially when it comes to budgets. We were punished a few years ago, you know, great, because we were telling the truth about the budget. But we need to find a balance between...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41071	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41072	I'm done, thank you. ... the need to invest in agriculture and the survival of fair small agricultural holdings, and you know there are such.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41073	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41074	I want to thank you. You're absolutely right. We're trying to make this approach, so we're talking to individual agricultural producers, their representatives, and we're never gonna get tired of talking. The force, the pressures and blackmails I can't understand and I can't accept, but to talk to you, we can always and we'll always do it. Let me give you an example, so you know what it looks like. Do you know where that money came from in Vranj? You would say – it is from savings, it is from serious politics, or from what I do not know. It's not. From our money, from here. We gave it to Simpo, and then they blocked Simpa's account, because Simpo owes from before and said, well, this is worth more to us to spend, so we'll spend it. Well, that's how the money was made, so you'd just know what it looked like. I knew it was something of this guy, so in the meantime I got from the Department of Economy that kind of information. So, don't, like God, please, so help us anyone, because it doesn't make any sense. That's why I told you earlier that it was our problem, which we in the state, which we in the government can control finance. We've got you, all of you here. We have an IMF. The International Monetary Fund controls every penny we spend. We can't spend it untransparently and we can't hide the money where and how we spend it. You can see every payment, every payment. You can see everything. I'm afraid that's not the case everywhere. I'm so happy to see that, say, there are 90 million dinars in the account in Ruma, and they had a minus 500 million. They have, thanks to the fact that they now have five factories, and they didn't have any, and they pay for it. But I'm terribly sad to see how much of our debts are to each local self-government, where we can take ten million euros at this point. We can't save them. When we gave 500 thousand, per million euros last year, we helped them, we always told them – but, please, people, reduce the deficit in your municipalities. Taking one of those million euros won't cure your community if you don't change your behavior if you don't behave differently. You know that we've had examples of Serbia that they're going to charge us for wood-crushing bandits, they say -- well, if the state wants to have a gangster here, it has to pay for the municipality of the country. Then I said, "No problem, cut off those bandits, so let's see how it goes without the power." Then they gave up on it. Then they did the same thing with Telekom's pillars. Then they did the same thing all the time, because there are no healthy incomes by local self-governments, but there was -- to get the authorities, for every party I speak equally -- mine, yours, every other one, in 80% of cases. There are, of course, good examples of exceptions I've already talked about. But it's all -- hey, let's get our hands on it. Well, health care homes. Look what's going on right now. We now have to pay for everything someone hired in one campaign, I think it was G17 plus and some other political parties, if I'm not mistaken, hiring dentists, hiring I don't know who, all of it, to get somebody's votes. So, what do we do now? We stayed in debt to everyone, and health homes sell ambulances, sell everything to pay off salaries. What do you do now? Now you have to take it back under republican control, one way or another, so it doesn't go away because some older people and some kids have to go to these health homes. Debts are getting bigger, debts are huge. The same is true of payments in 60-70% of preschool institutions to educators and educators. People, we don't have a problem with the Serbian government deficit, you could see it by numbers for 2015 or even 2016. We have a problem with the deficit of local self-government. Our problem was Belgrade, which we have up to almost a 21% deficit and it was our best local self-government. The whole of Serbia listened to fairy tales about how wonderful it is, how flowers bloom in Belgrade -- a 21% deficit. Isn't the current mayor who's down to 4.7%, which still isn't a good result? Then you can think what it was like with 21%. But these are our... Don't throw it away. Don't throw it away. In a decent way, you can always say a lot more than you can say rudely. I was already talking about those 24-bedroom lies and I'm not ashamed to talk about it, as they lied about for the first time, as they lied about the conflict of interest, so now you're silent as being watered when they got the answer and when they got the reports and the graphologists and all the others. So, I've been listening to this nonsense. Twenty-one percent of the deficit is otherwise worth about 2,000 more than any 24 apartments, fictional or real, however you turn. So much for how to rule, how to manage and treat citizens not Belgrade, but for all of Serbia. So we only ask people in the interior, in Vojvodina, in central Serbia, in Kosovo and Metohija that only the money that is obtained, that it is available in a domestic way, because that will make it easier for all of us, and all of our results will be better. He knows Kori, already this year we have been told from the EU – next year we will be much more careful and take care of local self-government and the way they spend money than the Government. They've gained confidence in the government. It will be controlled by the IMF, the EU will control it, but much less than it will control how money is spent in local self-government because they understand that this is a serious problem for us. That's what people see all over Serbia now. Thank you for that. I only ask that, always in the same way as we have done so far, we find these solutions, I am convinced, in the best interests of both the Serbian and Hungarian people, in the best interests of all the citizens of our country. I am also convinced that we will have more good moves to bring our people closer and that everything we had in the past, and it has not always been the best and the best, that slowly but certainly remains behind us, as can be seen in communication between the state authorities of the two countries, in a communication that was once not easy, and today it is such that we are almost on a daily level talking about all important things. In this, your role was very important, and I congratulate you on that, and I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41075	Thank you. Minister, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41076	Just to complete my previous presentation, I forgot to say for a moment. When it comes to this possibility that local self-government and the authorities of the autonomous province encourage agricultural production, it also existed under the new amended and updated Encouragement Act. I'll talk more about it when they're amendments, but just for the sake of the public and just tell you, so we're not ending anything. We will continue to care for the help of local self-government for our agricultural production in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41077	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41078	Thank you. The budget, of course, isn't good and it's clear to everyone. I'm going to try one ton of tolerance and no throwing, as we heard just before the atmosphere was built, to show you. The Methodological Act on the Budgetary System states that the Serbian government is obliged to send the draft budget to parliament by 1 November. That's what happened December 4th. Not only is this a failure of parliament, but I have a letter of 26 November with the signature of the finance minister, which writes on 26 November – the beneficiaries of the budget, by 26 November, give all relevant facts necessary to create this budget by the end of the working day. Therefore, it cannot be done in the most capable government. As capable as she is, one day really doesn't help much. When you look at what revenue is in this budget, which is, say, 75% is VAT, customs and excise, when you look at it's only 5.8% or 5.85% of corporate income, then you see how good the economy is. On the cost side, we see that the reductions are significant for next year, and the parameters, as the Fiscal Council says, are that unemployment, or employment, is the same as a year ago. So there may be a few thousand people who are more employed today by the authorities. That Serbia's debt is for the first time in history, a favorite phrase, greater than 25 billion euros. To remind you of 2004, it was eight billion, and in 2012, it was about 17, 18. For agriculture, smaller funds are provided by reducing these donations per hectare, for culture, and I don't want to talk about it anymore, these are funds that are no longer valuable. Non-transparency is the budget and now that the Prime Minister has read about how money will be spent, it has nothing to do with the Budget Law, you should have put it in the budget much earlier. It says, "Fiscal advice" that untrustworthy data is about unemployed people. It says that subsidies for new employment are not a good way to increase employment in Serbia. It's all in the Fiscal Council report. So this is a non-development budget, because for capital investments 14% less is foreseen. It's not even social, because 7.8% is supposed to be social. This is statistical and accounting manipulation, as has been happening for several years. This budget would not go on a polygraph where all living and no graphologists pass, so Bulgarian could not confirm that it has any value. The stories we've heard from the prime minister what awaits us in the future are at the level of those stories that are just as full of facts as those about the chip factory, about apartments for 380 euros, about how big international support is when you rip out every report part of the sentence and make a collage of self-satisfaction, then that can be so. When you read all the reports, which I don't have time for right now, it's a completely different thing. The promise that it was decided to fly next year to the United States is only 33% possible exactly because we received one document of three needed to establish a line towards the United States, which means we lack a contract on that flight and we lack lots. Finally, the great success is that there was no rebalancing. I quote one participant in the debate from last year, he says – I hope that next year at least four, five rebalances will be brought in to boast that we have higher incomes and less expenditure. Four, five rebalances promised a year ago by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic here, and now we're hearing stories that the rebalancing is the worst thing that can happen and that a year without rebalancing is a disaster. Come on, let's deal with the facts a little bit. Come on, let's have a little discussion, no offense. It's easy to throw when most of you are, what to do is wrong, and this people, but I call on the Prime Minister not to dictate in the follow-up discussion but to serve the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41079	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41080	I'm surprised by the statement that you have dared to criticize the people and to speak of the mistakes of the people, but I suppose it speaks more of you than of the people, especially much more than of all the others in this room. Don't throw it at me, I know that decency has never been your strong suit, and now I see that knowing the budget isn't your strong suit. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Tell this to your people. () By the way, throwing and yelling does not mean that you are right about anything. Look how you played with facts and what you did. This, four, five rebalances you pulled out my words when you said it was a rebalancing when we introduced one-time payments. I said then, "God forbid we have four or five rebalances in which we will pay greater money to a people where incomes will be higher and expenditures will be lower." How can you not be ashamed? How dare you fake reality like that? How ashamed of you to fake reality like that thinking that not only are we here stupid, which is fine, thinking the whole people are stupid. After all, you said that somewhere in the end. I tell you, the people are always right and the people see great, and that's why you're the only one, the two of you are the MPs from your party, and some of you have got 248, that's why. You say, you're talking about increasing income, about a bigger VAT. Well, what's better than a better economy, a bigger VAT. Well, bigger VAT is the core of economic progress. Well, you don't know anything about it, man. It's the core. Every day we measure GDP and import VAT, but especially GDP because that is the essence of economic progress. Well, you don't know anything about it. You're telling us about the hat, you say 14% is smaller. Yeah, it's smaller than expected, but that's why it's more than 15% since this year's execution. We spent 30 billion, and we put 42 billion in capital investments. And you couldn't remember that even though you could clearly and unequivocally see it. You didn't, because you didn't want to. You're not because the numbers are so good that no one can criticize them except you. Alusia to the polygraph and everything else, I don't mind. The liars always ran away from the lie detectors and always the liars found an excuse for not giving up on the lie detector. But always honest people agreed to go to a lie detector and never had a problem and never wanted to campaign against something that exists in the FBI, which exists in the world's most modern and best police departments. And what you can't cheat into 99.9% of cases is working, 0.1% doesn't work, but then you don't get results that can be found through control issues. Everyone knows that, but what can I tell you, if it's possible that someone isn't telling the truth, and that in public it has to turn out to be telling the truth, team up by polygraph, team by argument. I don't mind going to a lie detector because I know I'm telling the truth and my conscience is clean, and the one whose problem is, I'm sure it'll always be a polygraph, or a lie detector, and not his lies. You're talking about international support, I don't know what international support is, I'm interested in how much support our people are. I'm interested in the position of Serbia in the world. I think that the position of Serbia in the world is such that I have spoken to almost all European prime ministers several times, with Angela Merkel, five times this year. I don't remember anyone else having a chance in Serbian modern history. I don't remember anyone having the chance to sit with the Chinese prime minister twice three times over the course of one year and be as respected as we were. I don't remember anyone having such successful visits and Americans here and our visits to the United States there. I don't remember, but it's possible I'm wrong. But I'm glad it was before, if it was. I think the position of Serbia is good, it shows the opening of a chapter that we have 14 if it comes to it, of course, it wouldn't be good news that it doesn't happen, but I think we'll be able to get that kind of reward from the EU, probably for the bad results we've achieved so far. As for the different factories, you know, I expected and fought that we had even more factories, but I fought for many factories and many brought to Serbia and visited many jobs, many people in those jobs, and I saw in their eyes pleasure and hunger for work, for work and when I visited the PKK in Smederevo, and when I visited KVS in Vienna, I saw these young people who had huge energy and a desire to move forward. If I'm somewhere, if we haven't made it somewhere, and not in one place at least 50 places, and that's probably work, so you try and fight, you do it every day, I'll try a thousand places. So if I don't make it to 50, I've made it to 950, but I'm going to work tirelessly on it every day to fight and burn to get 50, 100 more, 200 more factories and raise and make a good result. I'm proud of it, I'm proud of it, and I think it's a good thing. As far as public debt is concerned, you understand me or pretend to understand me. Of course the public debt is growing, and I've told you 500 times, it's going to grow to about 78%, 79% of GDP, and everything we do, we're doing to stop the growth of public debt that was galloping, which you left us at 64%, in 2012, you adopted the 2012 budget, not us. So, 64%. It's a miracle we stopped it before 95%, we stopped dramatic growth, and I'm going to read to you now in a dinar to understand, that we're in charge, not talking about the project deficit, just for the deficit this year, so 143 million US dollars, 283 million euros, 55,966,000,000 dinars, and all the rest at a small level of five billion. Right at the height of this year's deficit, so we're standing very well, we have a good cashlow, we don't have any liquidity problems and we're in charge of three times as favourable terms as it was until two, three, four and five years ago. So that's a huge difference, we're going towards it. For another year and three, four months, we'll have to, if I'm Dushane right, correct me if I'm not, to be in debt and cover that deficit, but we'll stop at a level below 80%, from that moment on, we'll reduce the public debt to 79, and then we'll go to 75% next year, and then Serbia's permanent recovery and a permanent public debt reduction begins. That's why we needed a reduction in the fiscal deficit, which is why we need this GDP growth, which is why we're doing what we're doing. And there are concrete things and the IMF knows that, it says in the IMF's plan. And let me answer the first thing you mentioned. You said the budget wasn't good and it's clear to everyone, I'm not able to comment on it. You say, today I don't know what December it was supposed to be until November, but you forgot to tell the people, the citizens of Serbia and the MPs that we had been having talks with the IMF, that we had an IMF audit, so together we have to do the budget to Mr Zivkovic, because a serious country in the IMF programme has to get their approval for the budget in order to stay in the programme and so the country can move forward. And this budget has arrived before the MPs, rather than any budget from 2008 to 2012 and we are acting responsibly towards all people and we sit here and respond to every comment you make, and your remarks are such that apart from the words that are for repetition, some are not, I don't know what to tell you. Of the four, five rebalancings that you've completely turned away the words that I've spoken, and that all people understood why I said it, to repeat it to you. Since 44 years has not been a year without rebalancing, we have come to the National Assembly, to pay seven thousand dinars to educators and everyone else, and then you criticized me, you Mr. Zivkovic and others, saying it was a rebalancing, and then I told you, this is not a rebalancing, but if it is, I wish we had four, five times a year, to pay it to the people, beyond what we wrote in the budget. It's all the opposite of what you wanted to say. I just said, I wish we didn't have a rebalance next year, but I'm not 100% sure, and I can't guarantee it, but I hope we don't have it, and I guarantee you in advance that we're going to have more income than we're supposed to, because we've been very conservatively predicting them, I hope that the expenditure is due to the risks I've been talking about, because of these 17 companies, we'll manage to avoid them. These are the risks this government didn't make, none of us did. It's those companies that were robbed and destroyed in the last decade, decades and a half, two decades, three decades of whatever you want. To tell you the truth, you're right, it seems to me that everyone knows what the budget is. As for the Fiscal Council, I will remind you, Fiscal Council, you, Mr Bozovic, many others have said the following, quote: "The reduction of demand from 7% leads to a great doubt in 2015", and this was exactly a year ago, "there will be a year in which anything will be better than it was in 2014. If we take it," they then say in comments, the Fiscal Council, "then we predict what the IMF predicts, a drop of 0.5% of GDP". However, the Fiscal Council, and we agree with it, gave another alarming fact that this fall could be 1.5%, minus 1.5%, unless one of the planned fiscal measures is implemented in 2015. The fiscal council and you, you've only missed 2.5% of GDP. How much, Dushan, billions, is less than two billion? Let's say 800 million, not a billion, but 800 million. You made a mistake of only 800 million euros. What are you gonna do? So much for your good judgments, so much for your good calculations. As far as the people are concerned, Mr. Zivkovic, the people always know how well to judge you and me and the MPs, and the people are never wrong, believe me, believe me, who works for him, and whoever works against him does not work for him with all his energy and all his strength so that he can. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41081	The word is Alexander Vulin. Just to get Minister Vulin to respond to your exposure, and then I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41082	The budget doesn't seem to be read. If read, it would be seen that large savings were made at the department's division of labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs, but no single dinar in the social area, 95 billion or 95 billion others. No single dinar in the area of law and social protection has been diminished, even on the contrary. It is necessary to read the budget, not to be afraid of people with the idea that there will be a reduction in social protection rights and even more. If you had carefully read the budget, you would have seen and highly commended, if you cared about the citizens of Serbia, that for the first time it was introduced that the transfers for services in the community were increased to 400 million dinars, which means that there will be no local self-government, where there will be no living room for children distracted in development, where there will be no single local self-government, where there will be no one who will deal with the old ones that no one has ever cared about, where there is no local self-government, no matter how small or poor, where there will be no organised care for those who can't take care of themselves and it has never been. This is the first time in a budget that's very thrifty, and if you'd read the budget carefully, you'd see that the budget is and how social, responsible, but not the budget that's being broken, where one single dinar can go to the side. None of the only rights in the area of social protection have been reduced, preserved and increased. I know, it's not easy, it's not easy to admit to yourself that some other function you once performed is performed by talking to Angela Merkel and Vladimir Putin in the same week, and getting respect from each other. It's hard to accept, I believe, but it's hard to accept human beings, but for Serbia it's good, and it's good to say it's good for Serbia and that Serbia is better than it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41083	Here you are, MP Zoran Zivkovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41084	Thank you, President. Page 203. Social security from the budget. In 2015, in billions of dinars, 126.2. In 2016, 116.3 The hundred sixteenth point three is always less than 126.2. Capital expenditure last year is 49.2%. 42.2% this year. Forty-nine is always bigger than 42. So you can say whatever you want, who can read and who can't read. As for the extraction from the context, on December 22nd of last year, in this room, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said, "I hope next year, at least four-five rebalances will be brought in, in which we will boast that we have higher incomes and less expenditures." So that was said a year ago, not now a month ago when you shared these seven thousand. Second, it is proof that the rebalancing is not God’s punishment, nor something very difficult. There was a rebalancing at a time when I ran the government because of increased incomes, not because of increased costs. Of course, it's very nice for people to meet, have interesting trips to ride trains, talk about it to citizens, but citizens expect to live better. That forgetfulness, let me tell you one more thing – don't talk to me about 2012. At a time when I led the Serbian government, the government fought against the deposits of a past where the deficit was catastrophic, at a time when you were the Minister of Information, at a time when pensions, salaries were delayed, when the country was destroyed both from the outside and from the inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41085	Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41086	I just want to do it again for the citizens. So please look for social benefits. It's about a transition fund, less separation for a transition fund, not other rights. But you didn't want to read it. On the other hand, you wouldn't listen to me just now. I've explained to you about Capex. I told you nicely - one thing is what the separations are supposed to be, and the other is execution. I told you, it was supposed to be about 50 billion, we spent 30, and we predicted more than 14% increase compared to execution. And it's accurate and clear to everyone in this room. I just don't know why you don't get it, or you don't want it to be clear? But to tell you, these are so precise numbers, so precise indicators that these professional people sitting here and not ministers and political heads, people don't understand what this is about. As far as budget rebalances are concerned, the rebalance is not only terrible that we didn't have them because of increased incomes and reduced expenditures, but we had them just because of reduced incomes and increased expenditures, and that's why it would be good if we had them, but that's a rare case. That is why it is much better not to have them, rather than to show false planning and bad planning with lower incomes and higher expenditures. We have had an informal rebalancing which is not a rebalancing in the right sense of words, so I call it informal for these good reasons. I hope next year we don't have him for bad reasons. I don't know if we'll have him for good reasons. But to tell you the truth, if you're not in a position to read this with Capex, because it's all so clear, we've spent 30 billion, we should've spent 49, almost 50. We predict 42 billion, which is 12 billion more than what we've spent on what's been done this year. And that question, right now, let me tell you if we're going to make that 42 billion to spend because the ministers are always hungry for bigger budgets, and the question is whether they're in a position to comply with all procedures and the law to spend that money. I think that people in Serbia, after all, see it well and I think they end up with it. And I just want to say to you, don't worry, it's not easy in Serbia. And we've been through a really hard time, and everything that's coming won't be much easier, but it'll be easier, and it'll be better. Serbia is on a good, very good path. There are a lot of professional people, there are a lot of people who know, people who are disciplined, valuable, hardworking, responsible, in safe hands, and I'm confident, I repeat once again, and I haven't heard the answer, as I haven't heard the answer to how that fiscal council last year said at this time that the deficit for 2015 would be 230 billion, and today it's clear that there won't even be 80 billion. So, speaking of which, it seems that our forecasts have been more accurate and accurate despite all the respect we have for them, and I'm quite certain that with such a trend of success, the upward trends in all areas, we will continue and in the future, despite those who think that by clinking on the side, by trying to prevent someone from doing their job, they can achieve something. One who has great energy, who wants to jump all these obstacles, does not take into account the insights or the bouts, or the kibblings, or everything else, but goes forward. This is how we will behave and in the future, and Serbia will undoubtedly always win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41087	Here's Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41088	This is about the fundamental ignorance of social protection. Social protection rights are a child's allowance, parental allowance, financial welfare, other people's care and assistance, increased care and assistance, compensation for people with disabilities, for example for transportation or compensation for kindergarten stay, but the transition fund is not part of social protection. The Transition Fund in the past, or still in force, had a amount of 16 billion dinars. We are and he was directed exclusively at severances for workers from 534 companies. So far, we've spent 9.4 billion dinars. So we no longer have the need for that money, and now in this budget we have foreseen six billion dinars, which we think will be enough for these needs. It has nothing to do with social protection, nothing, nothing at all. It's only at the Department of Labour's division because it's a resolute ministry among other things. Based on appropriate procedures from the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency, a proposal is made on how the funds will be spent and, in particular, by the Government, the funds are also spent. So with social protection, they have absolutely nothing to do with it. Social security isn't downgraded by any single dinar. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41089	There's no replica. Please, we're not spending the night here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Two minutes. Five times mentioned. ) Please, there are other MPs waiting. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, who is justifiably angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41090	I'm on it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I will apologize for the behavior of my farmer and there is a proverb that reads: Out of the evil mouth can't but an evil word come out. Also, there is another proverb – that the universe and human stupidity are infinite. I'm not sure about that first, but for this second one, after my colleague's exposure, I'm more than sure. Here are the two of us, and one came from the village of Novi Karlovci, from the last street, from the last populated house, surrounded by fields, the other came from the center of Vracar, a villager from the city, which, thanks to the false planting of vineyards from the budget, took 525.000 euros and bought an apartment in Vračar of 500,000 euros, seems to me from one respected athlete and representative. What else could I say? He won't, he won't, he won't, the army won't, the government won't. It is true that whoever ruled over others is someone else's unbearable authority over him. That saying came true here. Coming here from the fields, from the village, in front of this hillbilly from the city, from the New Karlovacs, I remembered... These unarticulated screams, respected viewers, belong to the former prime minister. This is what I deserved the day after the prime minister was killed, when I voted for what he was yelling at. I'm a sinner. So... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? Is this the budget? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41091	You mean the swear I just heard from the desk lines? Please, you'd better not call me in running the session. I'm trying not to hear any rudeness.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41092	Madam Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41093	I apologize to you, they're getting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41094	They cannot confuse a wise man, nor offend, but what they earn speaks of them, and not of me. I can't be confused and I'll move on. Coming from his village where the elementary school had graduated from the famous Dimitria Ruvarac, whom I believe my fellow farmer had not even heard, I remembered his sayings – it was a heavy empty bag. There is another saying – it is difficult to clean up in an empty house. There is a third saying that reads: Woe to the host in the house of the naked walls. It's a heavy empty bag that looks simple, but we who grew up in the field, we who aren't in the village of Pukovci faked chickens, to take the peasants' money and chickens after a few months, and the future prime minister took the money, we who grew up in the country know what the term means – it's a heavy empty bag, when you go on the road, when you go to the field, and you don't have a tool, or a coin, or a piece of bacon, or a piece of bread, or a piece of onions, and you have to work all day. That's why this famous saying, one of the sayings of Dimitri Mita Ruvarac, kind of touched me and encouraged me to come from a village where he finished his elementary school tonight, for the first time I got up out of respect for the budget, which I don't think is developmental, I think it's domestic, because it's domestic. That's why I got up, although it's the microphone and the throat that hurt a little, it's a little difficult for me. This budget proves it's domestic for one reason. The state of Serbia lives on its own money, so public expenditures are for the first time covered by public revenues. There is a deficit of 120 billion, but there is interest on a 140 billion debt, made up of budget expenditures and 32 billion for the repayments of parts of the principal debt, which is a total of 192 billion. When you subtract that from the deficit, we actually have extra income, but thanks to their dragon interest and borrowing, for which we have to pay 662 billion this year, there is a 121 billion deficit, and in fact there is a surplus. The state of Serbia has a home budget, the state lives on its incomes, from incomes it collects from its citizens. Everywhere in the world, even here, citizens are funding their country. Those of us who lived off the plow and the string know how we got into this situation. While our hands were on plow and plow, gentlemen who didn't know how money was made, but only how it was spent, both hands got in our pockets and pulled out and pulled out until the lineup was torn up, and when there was nothing more, gentlemen who didn't know how to make money, but only how to spend it, they said – if you can't make as much money as we can spend, we'll sell you the property, we'll assign you. That's how it lived, instead of what was earned, it was lived from the man in charge. Their main product in the country was debt. The debt was all paid. The goods have been imported. For someone else's money, we were buying other people's goods, and then to make their tycoons' friends the best they could make, then they adopted an SAA with a content none of the accession members signed. It was excessive and premature liberalisation, with which they simply cleaned up some of our food industry and some of our agricultural production. Someone else's money was bought. Their philosophy was – better introduced than produced. Philosophy – better introduced than produced – had consequences – better fired than hired. We lost several hundred thousand people on the receiving side because of the loss of production they went to the expense side. Instead of being the income of the state, they became expenditure. Now I ask myself and you, and I won't ask those on the other side, because they won't get an answer, they'll get an excuse, how fuller the budget would be if we had 300,000 contributions to salaries today, salary taxes, pension contributions, health contributions? How many pensions would it be? In 10, 15, 20%. The biggest noise comes from those who are most guilty. They're talking about production today. It was touching to me when a member of the former regime began to talk about production. If I were to talk about his production, I'd talk for zero seconds, and if I talked about his consumption, so I could talk for years, I could talk. One plantes vineyards, lives on Vracar. Others plant buildings, on pastures. Maybe he expects us to pay him off for planting the building in the pastures. Look closely up here. This is where he built the building above the building. It was moving to watch and listen to him talk about production. I think Taji, the one who sews the most expensive suits, heard him well. I believe in my country, unlike them. I don't trust them with anything. This budget shows that Serbia is on track. Whoever's on the right track, they'll get companions soon enough. There are many companions here who believe in Serbia who are on the right track. On the other hand, it's those who aren't looking forward to it. I'm not surprised. Serbia stands up every day. It's nice to meet you. I'm not very healthy. The country is a complex and long-made, serious product. It's a brick per brick. We've found a house of naked walls, a stateless state, a land without hope, a country without a future for the present and future generations. It's a complex product that's made brick by brick, and this government is building foundations. I don't know if I'm going to be waiting, since I'm in fragile health, and I'm also having these independent organizations or some bodies attack me, so I don't know what they can do to me. I don't know if I'm going to be very welcome for this fragile health and their attacks, independent and non-political organizations, but if I don't wait, I know you're going to set Serbia straight. In that faith, I will get out of this congregation more contentment. Once we adopt this budget, I'll pass more proudly between Karajord and Emperor Dushan. I'll tell Karadjorju - here, the leader, the peasants made this country, they ruined it. The peasants made a state. I'll tell the leader -- here we are, rebuilding the state of Serbia. I will tell Emperor Dusan – in Serbia, there will be laws again, and then next to Novi Banovci, the old Banovci, where Dimitrije Ruvarac was born, I will come to my Nova Karlovac, where he finished school, and then I will jump to the Sremski Karlovci, when we adopt this budget, where he is buried, go to the grave and submit a report – Mr Ruvarac, the bag is no longer empty, Serbia has passed the exam of the right to exist. As we push the stone up the hill, those who cheer for the stone and jump to the stone to push the stone up the hill, to get Serbia out of the trouble they have pushed it, the respected citizens, you decide. Some call them traitors. I don't think they're traitors. I don't think they're even enemies to be defeated and trampled. They're political non-equal, and I won't let anyone tell them they're traitors. I think they're unfortunate people who don't need to be voted for, because, respected viewers, every vote you give for those unfortunate people puts their grabby hands back in your pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41095	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41096	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I don't think we're here to entertain the viewers and compete with some reality program, but to consider serious matters of life for those same citizens, and they're waiting today to hear what we're going to do today, or these days to decide what their lives are going to depend on next year. I just want to look at a few things, given the relatively short time I have. A colleague mentioned New Banovci, so I'll take advantage of the presence of both the prime minister and the environmental minister. There's a wild dump I've applied twice for to the Ministry for, and I'm here to address the municipality, or the local community, to solve this issue. That dump's about to be poured out on the highway, and it's mocked, first of all. The second dump is at Nova Paz, and the third is at Novi Sad. I do not see in this budget, please help me, where is the green fund that you announced in September that this year will be adopted and that we will finally begin to solve environmental problems? I also don't see, in these areas that will be subsidized, that any area in the environment is located. I expect you to just deny me, maybe I don't see well in these thousands of pages. The second thing I want to look back on is the addition of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Namely, a series of unfavourable legal regulations per farmer continues, especially for small holders of family land, because this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development provides for a reduction of subsidies for agricultural production. That's what some of my colleagues have been talking about, and I want to say it again, because the LSV parliamentary group has just submitted amendments in this area. As regards the incentive for plant production, i.e. the intended changes, the word is deleted – a minimum amount of 6,000 dinars per hectare and replaced by words – up to 6,000 dinars per hectare. Normally, further, other subsidies are similar situations. What I want to draw attention to is Article 8. This Article 8 states that payment shall be made in accordance with the order of submission of the duly lodged applications, and applicants of incomplete requests will be called upon to supplement the documentation and be paid upon completion of those applications, be careful of this definition, if at the time of the completion of the request there is available funds. This year, as far as I know, subsidies were paid somewhere until early May and other requests after that date were no longer paid. We believe that this is very dangerous, given that it gives space for corruption, or for the possibility of manipulation, because that officer who accepts the requirements can require a supplement, etc., and that in some ways enable, as they would say, our own to get, and some others not to get. We think this is how a formalized member makes it possible. I'll just remind you that farmers in the environment have at least 200 euros per hectare. I will remind you that there is a Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted for the period from 2014 to 2024 and which is to be operationalised with two national programmes, which is the Rural Development Programme and the Five-year Rural Development Programme. However, as it turns out, these national strategies usually serve either in pre-election campaigns or somewhere in each mandate are developed new strategies that are most often not realised. These strategies remain a dead letter on paper because they are not followed by the resources necessary for the application within agriculture. Thus, this year's budget does not meet the strategic requirement for at least 5% of the national budget to be allocated to the agrarian budget. I just want to mention life data. In fact, the question arises – how will farmers live in these circumstances when they grow old? I've got some data. The agricultural pension accounts for about 220 thousand pensioners, and about 100,000 were denied that right because they failed to complete the necessary internship of at least 15 years, or those payments of at least 15 years. The average pension is about 11,000 dinars, which is convincingly at least among the million 720, 730,000 pensioners in Serbia. A particular problem is those 100,000 farmers who have failed to pay up to 15 years of internships, but have paid as much as they have for certain periods, so there are those who have paid seven, nine, 11 years, and the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act does not know the category of return on contributions unless the pension is granted, regardless of the years of life. Especially, for example, I stress the position of widows and children of deceased pensioners, and there are about 25 thousand of them. They're receiving 7.5 thousand dinars. I'm asking a question here today, we've been listening to a lot of percent, billions just fly, who can live off this amount of money? That is what the citizens are interested in. How much of those funds can they get so they can survive? I must point out that few who pay their pension contributions in the country, because it's very hard to live. Many are forced to earn. I personally have such examples in my own wider family. So if the state doesn't do something, most farmers in their old age will become social cases and come back to the country's counter. There's been a lot of talk here about a lot of investment. I just want to point out, if the government and the Ministry of Agriculture thinks that the development of agriculture can only be based on foreign investments, then unfortunately it won't be Serbian agriculture, the profits won't stay here, and unfortunately a large number of farmers will either leave the village or there will be ordinary competitors and live hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41097	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41098	Thank you. Dear People's Parliaments, today you are the first to raise questions in the field of environmental protection and I want to say for you, but also for our viewers, that this year a fund has been identified that will be used in projects that concern environmental protection. You mentioned "Green Fund", we announced it and it is true that it will be established. To be established, it is necessary to adopt those three laws that you have had the opportunity to discuss and discuss with the representatives of the Ministry recently here in the Assembly. We have indeed done everything to make sure that those before the Members of Parliament, but because of the procedures that had to be implemented before anything in terms of consent by the European Commission, we failed before the new year. I hope it will be in January, possibly in February, followed immediately by everything these three laws bear in terms of the Green Fund. For the sake of you and for the sake of the public, I want to say that this year it's been defined as a job in the field of environmental protection of 5.27 billion dinars, which is 1.6% less than last year, simply, at the level of these funds. These reductions concern savings at the central level, so to speak, and as regards those projects relating to waste management, projects in the field of environmental protection, such as testing of water quality and sediments, then protecting and preserving strictly protected species, setting up an ecological network, setting up a Natura 2000 network, nothing has been denied. To this end, 4.18 billion dinars have been identified, which is about 80% of the total fund for environmental issues. You also mentioned wild dumps and simple dumps in Serbia. You're absolutely right, but I have to remind you that the issues of waste disposal arrangements and waste streams are not issues that are within the jurisdiction of the ministry. Those are municipal issues. Local self-government should have already established waste management systems to build regional dumps. You know that the strategy provides for more than 20 deposits, that only a small number of them have been built and now the question is rightly raised – what we did in the previous period, in the previous years. Why didn't we do anything to get this job done? So now it is justified to ask how many regional dumps are actually now in line with modern trends in developed European countries. You know, you'll agree with me, that the directives are really changing very quickly here, and that very quickly new technological solutions are coming together, modernising waste management models. Waste is no longer waste, but raw materials in the highest percentage, i.e. in the largest proportion in terms of total quantity. I'd agree with that, and this might be a chance to remind us. All the local, regional secretaries, all the institutions of the system that everyone needs to find himself in this story, ask themselves a question - what did he do? And even our citizens need to ask themselves a question -- are they sufficiently responsible to the environment, to the environment, to the generations to come? And these are questions that need to be asked, and I thank you for the opportunity to say this right now. As far as subsidies are concerned, they are indeed at last year's level. Even more is the amount of subsidies for 2016 compared to 2015. Simply, you and everyone else need to know that what is now taken as a disadvantage, that's actually what the government further defines agriculture. It defined 4.5 billion last year, defining 9.7 billion this year. I have to say, and it's probably clear to all our farmers, these are huge funds for the Republic of Serbia. Last year we paid 35 billion, this year to be about 35 billion again. That's about 800m euros. Probably for some economically developed country, an EU country like the Netherlands, Germany, it would not be much of a means, but for Serbia, given all that we have found and what we have inherited are indeed the means that deserve respect and respect for us who are in that area to other colleagues who have trusted us to give us these funds. And yet I want to say that we will continue to try to make every dinar of the agricultural budget, just as the prime minister said earlier, actually go to agriculture, to be used in the best possible way by those who really process the country, and not by those who, on the basis of the ownership list alone, receive funds from the agricultural budget and do not use them in the right way. That's our mission, that's our mission, and we believe that we will succeed. Positive results last year, despite the floods, give us the right to be optimistic. This year's results, the first 10 months are also good. They're better than last year's. We're just optimistic and I believe our farmers are optimistic too. And once again, I thank you for your attention, thank you for your questions, and we will certainly be able and wider and closer to elaborate when they are on the agenda for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41099	Hope Lazic, for a while? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41100	Yeah. Thank you very much for your answer. I just want to take advantage of the opportunity that here and the finance minister is, that is, what is the position on the final formation of the Green Fund, the real Green Fund, that we finally start to solve the issue in the field of the environment, because you remember and you have seen, for sure, all of us, this review of the situation, or the EU's opinion in the field of the environment, or Chapter 27, that we are not standing there great, that we are both in terms of waste and water, so I ask that we say something about this, because this is how it is now, and I see that this is clearly not a priority while the prime minister has come out, that we are simply trying to move from the dead spot because we are going to get into a situation when the funds are available that we are not ready to take them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41101	Thank you. Dubravka Filipovski, and prepare Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41102	I thank the chairman. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we are today under discussion from prime ministers and government members in a very concrete and comprehensive way heard about the results of the implementation of this current budget for 2015, as well as the plans for the implementation of the 2016 draft budget. I cannot look back on last year's debate on this occasion either when many colleagues have shown a non-believer in the realisation of this budget. It is their legitimate right, but all that the realisation of the budget has proved to be defunct in order to move towards economic recovery, in social benefits that have not been reduced because of the savings we have had, and these are positive steps that have been said several times in today's debate, and I think we should...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41103	Please just keep your voice down in the O.R. because the letter has already started yelling. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41104	Also, the draft budget, each budget is approximately a picture of the government's economic policy and this draft budget is, in my deep opinion, my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group aimed at consolidation of budgetary expenditures and implementation of structural reforms. I think this budget proposal is proof that we're heading towards a stable tax policy. That shows us a constant tax collection. It is therefore important to further strengthen the capacity of the tax administration and to establish better coordination of inspection services. We are recording, as is said, a continuous reduction in savings deficits at all levels. The public sector is transformed into an efficient, efficient and rational system, creating preconditions for creating a better business environment, which can allow for an increase in investment, better reproduction and competitiveness of the economy. Also, the proposal for each budget is approximately a picture of the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. And this draft budget, in my deep opinion and my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, is aimed at consolidation of budgetary expenditures and implementation of structural reforms. I think this budget proposal is proof that we're heading towards a stable tax policy. That's what tax collection constants tell us. It is therefore important to further strengthen the capacity of the tax administration and to establish better coordination of inspection services. We note, as is said, a continuous reduction in savings deficits at all levels, transforming the public sector into an efficient, efficient and rational system, creating preconditions for creating a better business environment, which can enable an increase in investment, better productivity and competitiveness of the economy. Also, the plan of this budget is to stop public debt growth next year and start falling since 2017. The projected GDP is planned for about 2%, and it is very important for me to say - primarily thanks to the recovery of the private sector. I would say that this budget is carefully planned, that it is going in a good direction to strengthen the three-year cycle of fiscal consolidation and, as Minister Vujovic said today, towards accelerated development. The plan of savings on the divisive side also creates better conditions for investment in infrastructure, which is best seen from the end of the corridor. So, on the one hand, we have a policy of long-term reforms and savings, and on the other, we have already seen responsibilities, false promises that citizens will, for example, get 1,000 euros from the privatisation process. At this point, we are paying a great price of error, economic irresponsibility, but it is very important that we do not leave the account of our financial irresponsibility to our children and future generations. That's why I think our responsibility is great and that we have a common task before us to stabilise finance and start the economy by 2020. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I would say that we are under constant EU monitoring, as a country that needs to open chapters in a few days, that we have obligations defined in 35 negotiating chapters, and that is why it is important to know what is responsible, how much time passes, and what goals it has set. We should set ourselves high goals, learn from other developed countries, and apply their experiences. I would mention Germany, their Budenstag adopted after 40 years last year for the first time a budget that did not have a deficit. The prime minister mentioned that next year's reform of education, which is very important. I would be very pleased if I could see a Finnish model, which has fantastic results in that country and which should serve us as the basis for reforming our education system. What I think is very important to say, in parallel with education reforms, is very important that we motivate, above all, young people and those left out of work by rationalization of the state administration, to seek their existence in private businesses, in private companies, in new investors, not in public enterprises and state institutions, and to transform our society from official to entrepreneurial. I think we'll be able to say then -- we've managed to plan an environment that gives one country the opportunity to develop. That is, in my deep opinion, an important goal. Another important goal of the government's policy must be to curb the grey economy, and I would like to hear from Minister Sertic or Minister Vujovic plans for next year in the area. I'd also like to ask Mrs. Korri Udovicki to answer my question - what about the register of state administration employees? Is he near the end? You've announced it. All in all, I think this is a good budget and once again to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group in voting day will support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41105	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41106	Let me just answer your question. First, let me welcome your interest in such a technical question that is actually extremely important in order to be able to make changes that we work in a permanent way. At this point, in accordance with the Register Act, we have prepared the necessary sublegal acts to be redefined to the end as the data should appear. However, a fully prepared index, a job catalogue cipher, has been prepared. Now, given that IT experts in the Treasury were currently too busy with the budget law, we have postponed for January the information preparation of the register, so that the regulation and the ciphertext should be entered. The most optimal thing is to enter at the same time, and since February, all public sector employees, since this applies to public enterprises, will receive a cipher, or a fill register that is more informatively data-based and less prone to error. So we expect that the February data will be able to track the number of employees and their earnings in a much more reliable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41107	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and Vladimir Orlic will prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41108	Thank you very much. The Honorable Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I cannot help but begin with one thing the Prime Minister has opened here. Since, as more or less known to everyone, I live in Shappac, and today here he said that a huge investment will come to Shabac, which should employ at the beginning of 1700 people, I just want to say a few words about it. Since this whole thing is in some form of confidentiality, no one before the Prime Minister talked about it, I'm not going to talk too much about the details, I'm not sure what to say and what not to say, but I want to give credit to Mayor Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic and his team, who have made an extraordinary relationship of trust with this big investor over the past six months. I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to now finish its part of the job, as they negotiate what falls within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Sabac, as the city that has certainly the largest industrial zone in Serbia, probably the best decorated or one of the best-organised industrial zones on the entire Balkan Peninsula, has made a major step for citizens from the next year to open a space for a significant and better life. This is the result of a long-standing good policy being conducted in the city. The Together Party for Serbia will vote against the budget, because this budget is actually a numerical statement of economic policy. I don't have anything new to say compared to what I've been saying for the fourth time. It is my belief that good development economic policy is not being conducted in Serbia. It's a shame the Prime Minister left, but there's the finance minister, and there's Mrs. Cory Widowsky, so I think I have a few things for them that I think are very important. And Mr. Sertic disappeared somewhere in the meantime. I don't think there's a clear economic development idea. Mr. Minister, it is not clear to me today, as it was not clear to me four years ago, which is why Serbia does not enter into a strong irrigation project that should lead to over a million hectares of land under irrigation. Every hectare that has a irrigation and drain system has up to five times as much profit as it does when it's in this state. There's a big battle going on over the Agricultural Land Act. Of course, these battles are based on economic interests. Someone says the government doesn't have legitimate interests, someone says that farmers who protest don't have legitimate interests, and I ask the question – why aren't we entering the irrigation project? Whoever owns the land is now somewhere over 200 thousand acres of land under irrigation, we can have a million and 200 thousand acres. That's what we talked about when you weren't the minister in all sorts of places, and I remember one. I have no explanation why for four years, and in 2012, we did as much money as there was in the budget and we made big steps. Another big thing, energy efficiency. A million and 500 thousand houses and apartments in Serbia are heating up on gas, district heating, and most importantly, electricity, which is the worst way of heating. Mrs. Udovici was also a minister of energy and she did a lot of other things, she does that, and she knows that's the case. It takes two and a half billion euros to isolate houses and apartments. My belief is that the government with a good approach could subsidise loans and strongly encourage citizens to invest their money. The heating bills can be up to 50% lower than they are now, with enormous consequences positive for macroeconomic all indicators. Multipliers in construction are huge, 70% of these two billion euros should be jobs that should be run by construction firms, 30% is the value of the material that should be produced, insulating. Slovakia finished this job in four years, I think ten or twelve years ago. Slovakia is a more or less country with the same performances as Serbia. These two things would only, in my belief, put us in a completely different situation, not to mention whether we made an epochal success because we had 0.8% of the growth, when we had a 1.8% drop in the last year, and to spend all our energy here on whether 2009 is the fault of the global economic crisis or the poor economic policy of the government. It was a drop slightly less than 4%. That energy, if we were to invest in some of these things, I think we'd have a completely different situation and we could talk about growth that's definitely somewhere from 5%, so on. Mr. Antic and he's somewhere, if I see you well, and, no, there you are, Mr. Minister, you're sheltered so I don't see you. The same question as last year – you made little progress. Why don't you put pressure on the oil industry of Serbia? I see they're running from hydrocracking like a devil from the cross, so, by chance, they're going to do some technology that's less good for us, I think of the state as co-owners, less good for NIS, as a company. I deeply believe, and I was on the board of directors of the NIS in my time, that there is a serious possibility of pressure, you, Prime Minister, Finance Minister, Minister of Industry. I hear now that you've made some progress on this productivity here towards Romania. The capital issue opens up a market of at least two million new users for Serbia's oil industry. Well, that's also a political question. Again, we can spend hours here, making sure it's okay or it's not good that the NIS was sold "Gaspromneft". It doesn't matter now. It's important that we can make serious steps. Five hundred million euros should be the investment, four years. So how much is this percent with multipliers increasing gross social product just on this basis? Mr. Minister, like me and anyone who has any knowledge of this, knows very well that if NIS does not make that investment, it will go bankrupt, with everything, Mr. Vujovic, the consequences of fiscal revenues. It's amongst the people who have contact with this area a common known thing. Another big topic, I forgot about biomass too, and I don't understand why we're not encouraging biomass production. All heat, including Belgrade's that are probably more than half of all installed facilities, all the heat in Serbia can use biomass. Someone here was talking about the trade deficit, about the canvas, the balance deficit, so as, of course, you all know, the essence or most of that deficit is the import of oil and gas, it's a direct reduction of the deficit, with a direct relief from the work that the central bank has and there you are, Mrs. Udovicsky, you were also the bank governor, so you know what it looks like. It's simple stuff. I don't know why the state doesn't do that. The second major political issue is the result of a policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Systematicly, step by step, through various legal projects, you are centralizing Serbia. The essence of the party's policy together for Serbia is decentralisation, because my confidence and people who are partying together for Serbia is that, until we open up space for millions of people to have the right to decide and reach the highest degree of freedom, we cannot have a sustainable development. The government is centralizing the country from month to month, year to year. Today, Mrs. Udovici, you had a difficult meeting at a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. You need to explain that law here, we'll see when it comes, probably very soon, which is why it should be reduced, here, now they know, there are many people, whether they're in the ruling majority or they're in opposition, should be reduced the percentage of the profit tax, which at this point remains local self-government, and then you're going to increase transfers. So, now, Mr. Minister, you'd better run politics in Vranj, Valjev, Capca, Belgrade than the mayors will. It's only one indicator, though very important and very important, since it's big money. Why is the government taking rights on itself, says the Prime Minister here now that you've been sharing some money. I don't know, the town of Shabac doesn't get any money, owes it to the state. A million and a half euros, based on the debt to build a pool, and three million euros cannot be charged by the town of Sabac, because, behold, there is now no Mr Sertic, cannot be implemented as a bankruptcy proceedings against the factory or holding "Zorka", now that I do not explain it further. So now out of grace, will, goodwill, the will of the government depends on whether you have a transfer like this or one, and the income tax, since politics is directed, to God, for almost a decade, that cities and municipalities, which is normal, improve conditions for investment, atmosphere, efficiency, administrative capacity, etc. So now what should be there for those who are a good consequence, an increase in the number of employees, to increase municipal revenues, now you're going to take 30%. It's not fair, it's not good, it's not useful, it's bad politics. I see, the Prime Minister is now talking about the need for kindergartens to move into the jurisdiction of the state, health homes having some problems. I think it's more normal for you to make rules, so who's good - to support and reward him, no matter what political majority is in which city, and who's bad - to have sanctions, so who's not able to run homes of health, so I mean cities and municipalities, and who's not able to run preschool institutions, so let the state temporarily take away the management of these institutions and institutions, and who's capable, why would you do that? So these are some questions that I don't have answers from year to year. The development and the fact that there are no essential ideas for economic development and the fact that the government is centralizing the country are the reasons why Together for Serbia will not vote for this budget, as was the reason a year ago and two years ago and three years ago. We'll see what happens next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41109	Minister Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41110	Thank you very much. Except for the last sentence, I understood all your ideas. I don't understand what these ideas have to do with this idea, which I usually support by voting for this budget, where unfortunately, I don't think there's room for this to be activated right now. A year ago, you said exactly the same thing and I support each and every one of them individually, both as an idea and as a project. The problem is that we have a divided management of investment projects. We are currently trying, both alone and in co-operation with colleagues from the EU and with the cooperation of other consultants, to unite the management of investment projects, so that we can look at them in general, look at where the priorities are and re-route resources. Your ideas are very good, both irrigation and biomass and energy efficiency, I also say that as examples. So, everywhere in the world, huge savings are achieved by moving on to efficient windows, to efficient insulations, to everything else, to what is more, a colleague who runs this office within the government suggests that these projects introduce schools and hospitals and energy efficiency as an integral part. We need to find the resources, and that part can be realised immediately because it doesn't require huge resources. Irrigation is already a much bigger project. I suggest we set up a special working meeting on what projects would be priorities, how to run these projects, how to work out and how to do that. I think the space we now have in the budget, at the moment when the budget has already been made, unfortunately, too late. My proposal, of course, let's do it, but don't wait for the next budget to come again, please, as soon as possible to make that meeting. Call a meeting, we'll call all the ministries that are connected, and we'll start talking about it. Second subject, the Law on the financing of local self-government. We've been preparing this law for six months. Six months ago, we're preparing a program that was put on the site three, four days ago. We left three weeks under the law, it'll be longer. We call on all who have suggestions on how to improve to tell us – it is not right to extract from the context. So the proposal was to correct the corrections made four, five years ago, which made huge differences in the size of transfers to individual local self-governments. Our goal is to make it very clear to us whether or not we did it well is to everyone who participated in this process to tell us. The goal is to redistribute the portion of the cake that is redistributed. So, in other words, this income tax that is now divided into 20% of the Republic, 80% of local self-government, or in Belgrade, 30%, 70%, to increase that share to make a bigger cake from which it can be redistributed by municipalities. If we stay within this little section, there's nothing to distribute and then we have municipalities that are terribly unevenly distributed. We want to recognize the tax effort of the municipalities, and we're going to measure that by watching the municipalities realise the taxed tax in those who are their own sources of income. As municipalities cut down taxes, immovableities and others, etc., and we want to review the validity of some forms of income sources at local level where it seems to me that there is an incredible variety and there is something beyond the wishes of municipalities that actually drives businesses, projects from municipalities. They mentioned here today both the Prime Minister and others to so-called The company has turned into its opposite. To assess who has the ability to pay and then to charge the company. Let the municipality charge the company 800 thousand, million, etc., and some municipalities are very reasonable about it. It's interesting that those municipalities that have the most investment are reasonable, and very unreasonable municipalities, which unfortunately seem to me, in the cramp of their lacks, are being caught, it's actually driving businesses out of there. Worst of all, big companies such as state-owned companies, such as EPS, such as Mail, such as Telecom, etc., pay huge costs to these companies. We suggest that it be reconsidered and that it be defined differently. This is the purpose of the discussion of this law, and you, too, can be activated, we can also hold a special session of the Committee on Business and Finance and see what can be done in this context. So, in other words, now, all you've said is perfectly acceptable to me, but I don't understand what this has to do with this stage of budget preparation, in other words, it would be perfectly right for me to come up with a series of meetings that would talk about and see how it can. Some of these projects are very serious, but they require mobilising resources on a much wider basis. You can't raise 500 million just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41111	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41112	I would like to respond to a comment on the centralization that has been intensified or implemented in the previous period. The fact is that there is a certain centralisation which, in my opinion, is logical and, within a short time, needs an answer to the fact that in the previous period decentralisation has been done half-way in such a way that it is simply very often impossible in most cases to decide, i.e. to fully put responsibility for decisions made on one actor. In all that is decentralised to decide on local self-government, some greater or less discretion, space for intervention, restrictions, regulations and the like has been left in decision-making at the level of the Republic. Nothing has been done right to the end, which leads to the fact that responsibility in the business of local self-government is a matter of personal proclivities and in fact a great struggle of individuals who decide to take responsibility for themselves and sometimes actually struggle with the illogicalness of the system in which they are found. In such a situation, it is sometimes better to centralise the decision so that at least it is clear who is making it and bringing it to the end, and without any doubt on the medium term, and especially for the longer term, Serbia must be decentralised. I completely agree with you that you cannot replace the initiative, energy, creativity, millions of people who have local government here at hand to implement initiatives and policies that are necessary and what most corresponds to the conditions that they know best. In any case, just today, at a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, I invited a permanent conference to organise a dialogue on this particular subject. Serbia must adopt a decentralisation strategy by the middle of next year. We have committed ourselves to this with our action plan for public administration reform. The best way to decentralised in a more systematic, more consistent way, by strengthening financial responsibility, by strengthening the clarity of the decision-making system, in order to know who accounts for why it must be determined in just one dialogue. He won't be able and no one can try to do this process this time in the way that it was done in the past, in five minutes, decisions that just suddenly slap the place. In this context, we agreed to go to a more detailed discussion of the Law on the financing of local self-government. The objectives of the law are clear, and the funds can certainly be repaired. I've had my chance to hear some good suggestions today from the level of leadership of local self-government. The most important thing now is that everyone who enters that dialogue is clear, that we cannot create a system in which, in this case, local self-government is constantly expecting someone else, in this case, the Republic and the Republic budget to somehow save them. We have as much resources as we have, and we need to make a system in which of these resources, a clear division of responsibility, a clear division of jurisdiction, clear incentives for any local self-government to do the best it can for itself. Increase that cake, not watch us redistribute it. And that is what is now, those solutions that will be so both stimulating and clear at the same time, with clear discipline and responsibility for the success of local self-government must now be taken from the discussion and how the Law on the financing of local self-government and a vision of discussion how to further decentralised the government in Serbia in a systematic way, in a consistent manner. Your suggestion that you mentioned that ultimately those who are irresponsible are being punished by taking away their decision-making capacity is exactly one of the solutions that we think of as the core of true completion or tightening of financial discipline in local self-government. We need to introduce some kind of concept, if in the extreme line and the bankruptcy of local self-government, which is poorly managed financially by actually putting it under a kind of forced financial administration, with a minimal reduction in the sovereignty of civil decision-making on issues that are not financial in nature, but without that, we will not be able to get out of the poor financial situation and transfer responsibility that currently exists between local self-government and the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41113	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, I apologize, before that has Minister Aleksandar Antic. I apologize to Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41114	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few comments about what Mr. Petrovic was talking about. And I would start from what the prime minister, and also Mr. Petrovic, was talking about investment and an industrial zone in Šapac, only in the direction that it is one, to say, an activity that requires a really wide action and local self-government, government and public enterprises, and within that, one of the most important segments of development and location, which should allow for the inflow of these investments, is precisely, to say, the energy supply of these locations and the provision of the necessary amount of electricity. For this very reason, in agreement with local self-government and mayor, we put in the 2016 programme a significant increase in the transformer, or distribution station in Sapac, which should enable new users to join, especially large users who are being announced. It was planned for some there later in 2017 and 2018, but we recognised it together as a priority. On these topics that Mr. Petrovic cited, I fully agree that these are extremely important topics, and I cannot agree just that it has not been made a significant or more serious step. First of all, from the point of view of energy efficiency, there are persistent steps that need to introduce us into some serious activities. I would like to remind you that last year and this year's budget of the Ministry of Energy contains items that are now encouraging and stimulating projects in the field of energy efficiency. Unfortunately, those funds are small. I will not complain like my colleague Dacic, but the budget of the Ministry of Energy is exceptional and modest, especially modest in these projects that need to lead to the development of some new value, but objectively, it is such a moment and we remain creative then. This creativity in these situations is reflected in attracting certain projects that can have as many donations by, above all, KFW, favourable credit rates or certain arrangements that need to be activated and economic capital in such projects. One of those things that is extremely important to us and important to you is the Ministry of Mining and Energy to do in the first half of 2016 are amendments and additions to the Law on rational use of energy. This is the law on efficient use of energy, which will be the right place and time and opportunity for us as Ministry and Government, and you as Parliament, to create this framework that will allow us to do these things really systematically and seriously, because we are precisely defining ourselves as one of the key problems in our energy sector, that we, let me say, not only at the level of Europe, but also in the region, are really the most wasteful of energy and that we are assessing that every dinar, which is invested in energy efficiency, is the fastest and best return. We couldn't do it any faster and better in a shorter time, because for these years and a half as Ministry we brought three extremely significant strategic things – the Energy Act, the Mining Law and the Energy Development Strategy until 2025, with projections until 2030. We have just foreseen a few capital things in all of this, and one of these capital things is what we have committed ourselves to, which imposes on us the EU energy directives to reduce the final energy consumption by 9% by 2020. There are some projects, some progress, and I think we have so far reduced 1.5% compared to the 2010 reference year, but there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Of course, this segment of energy efficiency is significant, but there is also space in remote heating systems in the transmission and distribution network when it comes to electricity. So we recognize that, we know what our parameters are, we know what our goals are, and let's make all of them serious changes and additions to the laws that we're going to set that framework and define common goals. I'm going to lean on that biomass story, and I'm guessing you missed it, like most of the public missed that we signed a $1.6 million grant contract a few weeks ago for the development of six projects, for the production of combined facilities, for the production of electricity and heat. So, $1.6 million we've given the grant to develop six such facilities on Vojvodina territory, starting with an estimate that's a great potential. In the Energy Development Strategy, we have defined that the annual potential of biomass is about 3.3 million tons of oil equivalent, about 50-50, which is from agriculture, which is from our forest potential. That really represents a great potential. You know that the total consumption of oil and oil derivatives on Serbia's territory, about three and a few million liters, is about everything we spend on oil, oil derivatives, TNG, diesel, kerosene, it's all somewhere on our potential to produce biomass energy. I believe there's a huge potential here, and I believe we'll know that we're going to put that potential into a certain function. I believe that in the territory of eastern Serbia, we should transfer remote heating systems to these combined energy facilities, which would produce both electricity and heat and, of course, work on it. You know it takes serious time to develop such projects. Finally, I think that in the past we have really taken huge steps, these are not steps, these are steps, also related to our Russian partners from Gazprom, solving all those many years of unresolved debt-related problems, mutual relations and assets and so on. One of these segments where we are already at the end, or working group, and I expect that this work will end next week, because these are the starting points for NIS development, based on which the NIS development strategy will be established by 2025 and 2030 respectively, where all priorities and all development projects are defined to be implemented. The premise of the whole document is precisely on the fact that NIS must be a profitable company, regardless of what oil it uses, whether it is domestic, import oil. We're setting up one such system and one of the segments of the setting of that system is within some planned processing in a refinery of about five million tons a year, to establish a deep processing system, and we've defined it and it's entering the investment phase. There are serious polemics, and I think we both know that on the subject of whether it's hydrocracking or coxing, there are reasons for both. Hydrocracking, without any dilemma, is a more effective method of deep processing. On the other hand, more investment is significant and on the third hand there are certain reserves on the part of Gazprom from the point of view of the reliability of the technology. On the other hand, certain bodies within the oil industry of Serbia have already declared themselves to coxing in the past, as a method. In that statement, individual representatives of the Republic of Serbia also cast their voice in these governance bodies. We're trying to continue to analyze this thing with our partners from Gazprom, but at this point it's hard to take those few steps back. In any case, what is most important to us right now is that we put exactly the deep processing of the oil industry of Serbia, and that as a state, government and politics, we put it into financial and operational realisation, and that experts get a little bit more worked up on whether it's hydrocracking or coke. What you have well noticed is that in this strategy, i.e. these starting bases and I believe there are a lot of good elements in the strategy tomorrow compared to the previous period. One of them is finalising and putting into full function products between Panchev and Temisvar, which, above all, represents this development step, because we feel, hopefully, and we have good analysis that this region of western Romania is gravitating towards our market and that from the point of view of transport it is the fastest, most reliable, most efficient supply line of the region, because other refineries in Romania are 300-400km away from that area. I personally think that this project will bring one additional injection and wind to the back of the NIS and I believe that NIS will remain a stable, efficient company and one of the pillars of our total economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41115	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Dusan Petrovic: Replica. Mr. Petrovich, you have to wait. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go, Mrs. Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41116	I thank the chairman. I think it is a very important issue that you have asked about the priority of projects and the management of strategically important projects and I would only complement my colleague Vujovic, since I think he may have forgotten to mention that Serbia is actually the first country in the region to form the National Investment Board in the area of infrastructure. We have already held two, the third meeting will be in January, which in fact through a single review of infrastructure projects so-called. "single project beep" means doing, let's say, or an analysis of what projects can really be prepared for funding, because unfortunately in the previous period, it happened that even very large credit lines were being withdrawn for projects that were not ready for funding. Therefore, this methodology, which exists for selecting and prioritising projects and which is applied through a single overview of infrastructure projects, is co-ordinated by the National Investment Committee and here as chairman of the Vujovic, as finance minister, and I as a national IPA coordinator, since you are aware that many of these projects can certainly not be financed from the budget, but are withdrawing either credit lines or grants, certain grants, etc. Therefore, it is very important that we understand that Serbia has recognised the importance, therefore important strategic infrastructure projects, but above all those at this mature stage that they can be ready for funding. I also think that the role of parliament can be significant, as Serbia is an active participant in the Berlin process, you know how favoured this conenivity is in the Berlin process. At the last summit in Vienna, we agreed on 10 very important priority, regional projects, six infrastructures and four in the field of energy. Of these, three projects that are funded and worked in Serbia have entered, thanks to the fact that we had ready projects, and as many as five out of ten projects rely on our transport networks. So, to Corridor 10, Belgrade Airport and Belgrade Port -- Novi Sad. The role of parliament can also be interesting, given that in this regional context, and perhaps regional co-operation of parliaments is important, the legislative framework will be analysed, hence the preparation and priority of projects that have this regional component, regional importance. We even talked about it at a parliamentary conference recently in BiH, which was organised. I really think that there is a role in this part, as Minister Vujovic said, and that Parliament can participate, but to point out that we have recognised the importance of this, the first in the region has made such a methodology and the government body that includes all relevant ministries and that we are absolutely working on that that the projects that are really mature for funding are being funded. Whether they will be financed by part of the grant, whether from some favourable credit lines, whether by some grants or by part of the budget, it is actually the job of the National Investments Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41117	I thank you, Mrs. Joksimovic. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41118	Thank you, Chairman. First, I'd like to tell Minister Vujovic why I'm voting against the budget. All this from word to word I said a year ago. That's when you said you also needed some time, that next week we'd talk about something. Well, it's been 52 weeks. We said the same thing two years ago, three years ago. Since there is no movement in approach, not in themes, then of course there is no change in attitude. Something first of all about what you said, and then Mrs. Widowsky, the government has tremendous power, institutional power, if you set up a policy and tell us what the rules of the game are, you'll get most of the energy of local self-government. If you had set up a policy that was an important energy efficiency, so that you would encourage those who have power, will, ability, administrative capacity to enter such projects, you would have made a surprising shift. If we did this by saying as a government government will encourage all of those cities and municipalities that their remote heating systems want to convert from oil and gas to bio-mass in general or in part, you would have incredible effects in the way that mayors and local parliaments would set themselves up. That's what I'm talking about. Centralization is, it destroys energy because it destroys people's will to decide. Then all they care about is whether they can get to someone, to the Minister or to the Prime Minister, without having any initiative, set the rules of the game. How come Mrs. Widowsky is a town that has almost 100 people less employees than your criteria? He still can't hire anyone, he didn't get approval for any single place. That's not normal. It's the same with Vrsec, which is even more drastic since it's smaller and has a greater deficit, it's abnormal things. Come on, reward someone who's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41119	Time, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41120	Thank you very much, and I'm just finishing up. Mr. Anticius, you know that hydro crackling is more expensive but comes back in twice the time. The fact that the Russians won't give money is a matter of political pressure. You and first of all the Prime Minister because he has power in this country can do great things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41121	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41122	It's really the easiest thing to do policies where you just offer some incentives and you have, you spent so much money at a time when it was your government, I don't really understand why you didn't just solve this problem then, but we're now reducing consumption, so in this kind of policy we're thinking about other kinds of incentives, coordination and movement. The easiest thing would be to offer money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41123	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41124	I simply deeply respect the need for the government of the Republic of Serbia to manage all processes, however, I believe in the division of competence. We all know that the issue of remote heating systems is as a communal activity in the jurisdiction of local self-government on the one hand. On the other hand, if we were two seasons, this is the second season in which the Serbian government, my ministry, the Stock Reserve Directorate, NIS, AD Oil as a company, we broke the spine to provide all the necessary energy, so that we are very present and, on the other hand, there are very clearly defined incentive measures for all who are interested in entering systems, which primarily as energy have been mass. You know there's a fiding tariff for biomass. I'm just trying to read how big it is. This fiding tariff is from 8.22 to 13.26, depending on the size of the energy facility. Where are you going to get a bigger invitation and an incentive for all those who think that way than that, on the one hand? On the other hand, I must remind myself that during the visit that Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Sertic and I had to have had to the People's Republic of China, as one of the memos that I signed was precisely this memo with the Chinese company CMEK on the construction of combined energy facilities for the production of electricity and heat from municipal waste. So, it's a great opportunity and a great opportunity first of all for, I think, the New Sad and Nis, as the largest cities, but also for those centers where we're being set up by those regional waste dumps, to include that segment in this entire system, because unfortunately, and the waste of maltene comes as a renewable energy source because we're constantly creating it, and every year it's part of our life cycle on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41125	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41126	Thank you. Before I go on to say something about the budget itself as the most important law for a country, I need a little criticism to refer to the ministers at all, and of course, I'm saying that there is extraordinary censorship in this society, and I have to admit, but also censorship to the government, or to the representatives of the government, because what you've done, you can't show it in an adequate way, because obviously some media doesn't care. The main point is to place various affairs, even fictional ones, if necessary to disrupt the credibility of the government. But what you did, and it's no small thing when you say you have plus 0.9% of GDP. That means, to translate into ordinary people, means that somewhere you've produced something, you've created some kind of newly created value. Although we hear various criticisms here, as it is because of the increase in taxes and excise duties, but I apologize, those taxes existed before when our skin was swallowed literally and when every business activity was absolutely disabled because of the asphyxiation of the economy, so we had such a fall that it was terrifying, and you'll agree, we had wherever better economic and whatever environment you want today, and the problems at the global level and the economic crisis itself that is still going on. But there's a little bit of your inconsistencies. I don't think you can ever show people what you've really done right, and it's not a little bit what you've done so far. Let's say, Mr. Vujovic, I have to be honest, when I listen to you, I have to admit that sometimes I enjoy hearing it, because in a very professional way you explain it, but maybe to get a little closer to the ordinary world, that people understand what it's all about, that maybe a little approach is somehow changing. Otherwise, it's a great honor for all this financial consolidation that's been done so far. What I hear here and what's amazing to me, it's, it says - that the state didn't go into dynamic development? I don't know, did we realize that self-government socialism has died and that it's no longer the state that pays for unconsciousness and employment, but I guess for years we've been pushing back for some liberal capitalism, even though I'm personally a major opponent of it, but that's a dominant thing. Then I don't understand why people are on the other side, are they for getting Cardell back and self-government socialism or are they for the market to really regulate what is happening in the economy right now? It's simple, we have to define ourselves. It's not true there's no such thing as development. As soon as we have a plus, we're not down, it's clear that there's some kind of development, that there's something going on somewhere. True, it can always do better and I'm convinced that it can do better, but for something like that, you have to create a good economic environment first, first of all through the law, and that's what I have to congratulate you on, which is a lot of work done on it, and that was before, unfortunately, it wasn't like that. In particular, this problem of agriculture is often listed here. Here, you're Mrs. Boskovic, among other things, the Agricultural Land Act, which I assume will be brought or whatever, but that's what regulates it. It regulates the possibility that even a small farmer, imagine, could have an impact on something somewhere, that he could get a country somewhere or something. So far, we've had a situation, and I see there's always criticism about why there's something in agriculture, why the situation is like this. Well, we had a situation that only a tycoon could get to land and only if it was connected to some previous furniture. Of course, I understand them, these gentlemen who may be organizing these protests today. It's mostly the ones that have thousands of acres. To them, of course, the problem is that they're going to get competition, and competition bothers someone. These people are used to telling you about the free market when they're monopolies. That's something we have to erase. It's a good thing you're on your way to work it out. I believe that this law will soon be here in front of the MPs, because our little farmer has been destroyed and our economy has been destroyed just by allowing the tycoons to get land that they didn't end up working, and they were getting subsidies for it. We were literally throwing money away for something that was absolutely not fruitful because that money was thrown away. Also, when we are talking about agriculture, and we see various petitions are being signed today, then we should be fair enough to say, yes, because of the 2008 vote, we, in Luxembourg, have signed the SAA, where it was, to deceive citizens, but we have made it possible for this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as it is, to liberalise the imports of agricultural products and we have buried our farmers, and we have made it possible for the country to sell to foreigners. Now it's really embarrassing that those people who just supported it, they're signing these petitions today. Dearly beloved peasants, those who sign petitions today have buried you just by signing one such Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You have to be honest and tell the citizens so. Are we going to be able to change something here? Will we be able to negotiate well that such a provision is not accidentally applied, I don't know, but it is our international obligation that someone else has imposed on us in such a way as to force us to unilaterally apply the SAA. So, the EU itself doesn't want to apply it to us yet, but we will unilaterally apply it, as the people would say, to be greater Catholics than the Pope. That's how, unfortunately, it was and, unfortunately, that's what's left. A lot of things here, let's say, Mr. Sertić, I often resent it for you, unorthodoxly, you may not be able to explain it, but you should tell the citizens, precisely because of the scandalous election policy, we have been throwing 750m euros a year at companies in restructuring. We threw at companies that didn't do anything, we threw at workers who weren't essentially workers, but they sat there and they didn't get anything. Now it's where and where it's reduced. I hope it ends, but our money we threw in the well was just that. It's not a small amount at all, but I'm glad that this is exactly how the budget is consolidated and that our finances are consolidated by not throwing money into the well without the bottom. Otherwise, I urge you, Mr. Sertice, to do something as soon as possible so we don't throw that money away. I understand the Prime Minister, what he said about Bor. I have to admit, as much as we're all thinking here, I'm not sure any of us have the right solution, because the price of copper and what to do is going down, it's just something that's not rentable, but you have to take care of that social component, because the whole Bor is living off that mining gun base. That's how it is. Who's to blame for us that we may have once been, okay, as far as Bora goes, but let's just say that we invested in something that was questionable, because at least on our side, it could have started on that climate. Now it's the way it is. Our entire cities live off certain factories and, unfortunately, we have to keep an eye on those cities so they don't die. Let's say, when are they telling us -- when are you going to solve the FAP in Priboj? Well, why didn't you solve it, FAP in Priboy? I don't understand. We've got a factory that's got a whole Priboj living off, and everyone here lives to do something about it. What to do, the market is what it is right now. The question is if there's rentability in there. I hope you find a solution, and I have to congratulate you at all for sticking to your work to sort it out. Someone else didn't even solve it, he was just throwing money at the bottomless well and it worked that way. So this budget, the way it is, is something that's been embodies with this country's economic policy. By the way, I'm rooting for unpopular moves and I'm pointing out everywhere that this government will absolutely make unpopular moves in the coming year, and if the people don't like it, let them vote against this government and against the SNS, but those who are against it say what they offer as an alternative. This policy of "Ua Vukic", it's a policy that we can all run, nobody likes to cut salaries, or reduce pensions, or to fire people, it's simply something that's not nice to anyone, but if you want a healthy economy, if you want a healthy organism, when you treat a man with lung cancer, you can't apply syrup, but you have to take him to chemo, that's how he is. If the people don't like it, if the people think that we might be much better able to raise our loans and thus give our economy, or not the economy, but simply to regulate consumption because we're going to take out of credit, and give it for wages and pensions, I think it's counterproductive, that it's a policy that destroys a country, but please, nice people will certainly have a chance to define it. I'm just saying one more time, I'm asking those who are against this, to say what they're offering. I've never heard of what you're offering instead. We said -- we will, we will make unpopular moves and in the campaign we will say that, as far as the province's local elections are concerned, yes, we will make unpopular moves, however much it hurts, because it's the only chance for the country to survive. So, just next year, I think, correct me, Mr. Vujovic, we should pay a billion and 300m euros in interest. So it's interest on the unsuspecting loans that someone's been raising here. A billion and 300 million euros. People need to earn it. (Dusan Vujovic, from place: Billion and 150) A billion and 150 million. Well, you know, people, you know, somebody's got to make, like, a billion and 150 million euros, and it should pay interest. Which someone took pointless loans, where it was 7% to 9% interest, that's what you should ask someone who's done it before, and not today we have no idea what kind of economic policy. Therefore, continue with unpopular moves, you have absolute support for the parliamentary majority, I believe and the people, because you know people are not ignorant in this country, you can sell them as much fog as you want, but people understand what has to be done and if you think and at all anyone who is an opponent, that Vukic himself, as Prime Minister, is a foolish man, so he likes to live on the people, by reducing his salary and pension, then you're wrong. No one likes to cut their salary, or pension, or fire people. Last year, I think, was a criticism – you don't fire people in the administration. It's really scary when someone needs to be fired. Now that it's time for the administration to be rationalized, there's a review going on – what are you firing people? Guys, define yourself what you want. Will our administration be rationalized or will our administration not be rationalized? I must admit that I am a great supporter of fully destabilising public sector work on administration. Whatever you can do, let's say you encourage the private sector. Wherever you can bring some reliefs, especially taxes, so that people can go private, I fully support you here, and to destimulate public sector work, especially in the administration. You have full support on my part, and I believe all the MPs' groups. So to conclude, I'm going to support this budget with all my heart, because I think it's also developmental and that something that will bring us, if we succeed in what's being projected, is a 2% growth. It is truly a fantastic success of both this country and this government and I believe that the financial improvement, above all, will be felt by the people in its account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41127	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41128	Dear MPs, I have learned to answer questions here in parliament and to replicate representatives of the opposition, but now I will have to give my dear counterpart Djukanovic some information, very important, because he mentioned some things that do not stand. We did not plan to throw in the well in 2016 and give to a company a single one in the budget, nor for 2015, without being strictly defined and limited by the obligations that the company must implement. What does that mean? Over 48 billion dinars were given directly from the ministry's position from 2008 to 2013, without any obligation for these enterprises to make serious restructuring, to solve excess workers, to find their sustainable business, to find their new markets, to restore machinery, or any of the daily activities done by good companies. That's what we fought with. That's what we've been waiting for. We had to take very painful steps in the previous period, and we came to the point that today we have only a few-tenths of the companies we take care of, not a few hundred enterprises, in just a year. We have 17 strategic ones to solve in one way or another. Not one day, not a request for extension, or any other help we will do towards Parliament, or any of our other partners with whom we are working on these processes. Please make sure that you and all the other colleagues, either the position or the opposition, take care of it, because it's very clear in the documents. It's very clear what the funds are for. A large part of the subsidies, so-called subsidies. which are so indicated in the budget because of the law do not constitute subsidies, but exactly support investment. And not only the Ministry of Economy, but also the Ministry of Construction and Traffic, because if you have 15% of your participation in the loan, it's not a grant for the loan, it's just an investment. Only we with 15% participate in the total investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41129	Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djukanovic, you have no right to a replica. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41130	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have been sitting in this hall for a long time and I must say that it is very easy to lose your sense of reality when you sit in this assembly hall. We're talking about big topics, big numbers, exel tables, but a little touch with real life. Anyone listening to this transmission can hardly accept praises about how to live at this time in Serbia. I think it's clear. This is the fifth budget, the fifth year of this assembly majority, of these governments in different compositions, but the fact is that in these five years in Serbia we have a decline in the standards of Serbian citizens. Our key challenge is the challenge of every successful government and every successful government, in which they translate these numbers from the exele table into citizens' pockets and how to fill the plates on the tables in Serbia. I think some figures in this draft budget show that citizens, most concerned by the need to keep existing jobs, open new chances for their children and open employment opportunities, can see through a few evidences and a few concrete numbers in this budget that this will be difficult for next year. So we have information that the planned income from corporate income tax falls from 2015 from 66.5 billion to 58.3 billion. We also know that the net loss of the Serbian economy in 2014 is four times the net loss in 2013 and amounted to around 1.1 or 1.2 billion euros in 2013, while it was 300m euros in 2013. That means less opportunities to open new jobs. That's what it says in your charts. We have seen that at point 1 of point 10, a six-billion transition fund is planned, which is an opportunity, you will correct Mr. Minister, the possible planned 30,000 severances. We heard from the Department of State and local self-government that 15 thousand people from the public sector are planning to be fired. So, more and more reasons to worry about keeping existing jobs, and opening new opportunities. On the other hand, in previous years, we are adopting laws that reduce people's pensions and salaries in Serbia, and such a difficult social status and care to feed the family on our own salary, so we know that serious poverty knocks on the door of many families in Serbia. What do some figures from this year's budget or next year's budget proposal say? They say that instead of a strong economic policy of new production, excises are introduced, excises that are quite normal when we talk about alcohol, cigarettes, but it's hard to accept that in the 21st century, electricity excises can be justified. The question for the minister is - is it true, and especially based on these positions that we have in the budget for next year, that it is planning in the middle of the year and the growth of electricity excises, which, of course, will endanger the social status of the poorest who pay their electricity bills most regularly? So, in the excise division of 1.4, other excise duties are planned at 13,800 billion dinars. For the next year, 28 billion dinars. So, impact on the standard of our citizens. In the end, it seems to me that the illustration for how to conduct Serbia's budget and financial policy is one famous ad where old Brown says you have free beer tomorrow. Then you come to the brewery and you always come on today, and tomorrow's only tomorrow, it's never gonna happen. Five years in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we have promises that we will be better from year to year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41131	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41132	I will answer with the idea and with the understanding of your address that it is not malicious, but it is a matter of reading data and perhaps insufficient information, so I will repeat, although there have been a lot of these days in the media of the story exactly the question you first mentioned, which is the ratio of statistical reports on the economy between 2014 and 2013. We've already given as a Ministry and many professional people have given answers to that, but I will repeat, simply and for your sake and for the sake of all our listeners. As the first thing in 2014 came into force the new Accounting Act which completely changed the way all the effects of the economy were recorded. It is therefore almost impossible to compare any of the items in 2014 and 2013. Some things are broken so it's possible to professionally add them together and find the right elements and connect, some things are completely different apart. That's why the accounting union asked us to amend the law and the other day held a press conference with similar allegations asking that certain things be simplified. Is that right or wrong? This will certainly be stated by the Government in the coming period, but I would like to say as the first thing, therefore, the methodology of the 2014 calculation and the methodology of the calculation of all years backwards is not possible. What's the biggest change, and what happened all of a sudden to wake up such a negative result of the economy? The biggest blow and the biggest item in all of this is to show negative course differences. What's been going on since 2007, then? In order to address, I say, the results of the economy are allowed not to show, above all, the negative losses of the exchange rate differences in their balance sheets and reports. Then it happened in 2014. For seven years you haven't written down all of a sudden you have to sign up for your books. So, in 2014, it's not true, but practically from 2007 to 2013 that all reports in Serbia did not show a quality and clean picture of the company as it operates, and thus our entire economy. We'll only be able and you'll be able to give real criticism when we can measure the results in 2015 and 2014, because then we'll have identical parameters. When these accounting data are removed, when you take the right data about the net profit of the economy, for a small part, but still a small part, it is a positive business of the economy in 2014 compared to 2013, which is good. Another question of yours I want to answer is the question of the Transition Fund. The Transition Fund is intended exclusively for restructuring firms. For this year, we have 16 billion, so this Assembly has approved 16 billion dinars for those needs. We've spent a little less than 10, and we've left it for the next year and for these 17 companies or for some other companies that are out of that 17 package as strategic ones, but some companies that matter to us, and if we have the opportunity to help people and workers who work there, six billion are meant to help that part. This transition fund, that item you have read, has nothing to do with the state administration and the discharge in the state administration, and there are colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and Vice President Kori who can explain it even more closely to you in terms of rationalising the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41133	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41134	I have to do it again. You can analyse individual small changes in the range of certain fiscal instruments, i.e. tax instruments. It's all allowed. What is important is that the total tax burden does not change between 2015 and 2016 to 36.6% of the social product. To plan a reduction to 35,7 in 2017 and 34,7 in 2018. It's completely incorrect to increase the tax burden. It stagnates and falls. Whether this will be deployed between electricity excises which the EU otherwise proposes as a standard instrument or will be allocated between that and excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages, alcoholic beverages at this rate or at that rate. That's all the details. What is important is that the overall tax revenue estimate does not increase the share of income in the social product and thus does not increase the burden on the population or on the economy. Your colleague Sertić has already provided you with an explanation for the presentation of certain elements of business, i.e. so-called business. The balance of success and the balance sheet of the firm and that's also explained perfectly. Otherwise, I don't see the numbers you're talking about in our balance sheets at all. The corporate income tax is 57 billion this year, and is expected to rise to 58.3 billion next year. I don't see those numbers you're talking about anywhere. You can explain where you found them. Another important thing, it's that all the other elements move in line with what's been designed. There's no deviation. The tax burden is shrinking and finally to tell you just my comment on your repeated attitude to live worse, that there's some delusion here, that there's some hidden fall in standards or anything else, it's just not true. So we don't grow at high rates, we grow 0.75% this year. Maybe by the end of the year it'll be better. We expect a growth of 1.75% next year. We expect consumer demand to start to grow but on a stable basis to make everyone better and we expect that when we finish this, we will come out on the solid ground of economic recovery, attracting investment, increasing employment, increasing the growth of the social product in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41135	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41136	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, we have had the opportunity to hear now something that we deceive the public, with the fact that this assembly council meeting votes five times Serbia's budget, as if for five years we existed in this assembly meeting and as if the government led by Prime Minister Vukic existed for five years. Of course that's not true, but obviously for some who have ruled for more than 10 years, this seems to be too much of a period since 2012. Obviously, any comparison of Serbia's budget with cold beer shows essentially how responsible they were when they made that budget and considered them cold water. Therefore, this budget today shows one great responsibility, primarily according to social categories, but also the development component, which is very well balanced. And well done, Mr. Vujovic, I have many elements to be commended for today. I will start with the one where practically the segment of gender equality and gender budgeting is fully represented in the Budgetary System Act, where, together with the co-ordination body of the office, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you essentially signed one document that you have obliged 28 institutions to start dealing with this topic in one extremely responsible way. In fact, you have helped the fact that Serbia is becoming a leader in the region, including on this subject. Thanks to European Integration Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, it is indeed in a completely adequate way that this topic becomes an integral part of all issues related to local self-government and when we talk about the City of Belgrade, which will become an integral part of all other major cities in Serbia. The part when we talk about the economy, it should be said that in section 20, when talking in general about the investments that will be and that is the development component of the Ministry of Economy, should be commended for the increase in the practical item planned in the past year to 18.8 billion dinars, which is now 19.4 billion for 2016. It should be commended and essentially what Mr Sertic said, that no dinar will be thrown into the well. It should also be commended that there is continued correlation in co-operation with foreign investors and under the new Investment Law, as well as with the EBRD for opening new credit lines. First of all, it should be commended for the part where the Office for Gender Equality, the part relating to women's entrepreneurship and practically the part that was missing so far, which is the consulting part. So, the EBRD has organised groups of people who go according to local self-government, and not only in Belgrade, but they are talking to all women's associations and simply the part about preparing the business plan itself, about not allowing entrepreneurs to fall into their loans to the end of practically all annuities, which is one big support and, of course, one signal where as many new small and medium-sized enterprises as possible will be owned by women. It should also be commended for that part of the social component when it comes to the Ministry of Economy, and there is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is that by joining up, practically connecting the employment of employees who worked in the restructuring and bankruptcy companies, the state will allocate practically 110 million dinars to connect for now 600 workers in these companies, which represents resolving the life issues of many people who have retired, many who have worked in certain businesses and have not had their taxes and contributions settled. It's essentially that social category. But it should be said that with certain pension increases, which are not negligible for Serbia's budget, it costs about seven billion dinars. It is true that the Fiscal Council was not meant to have any pension increases by the end of 2017. But it should be said, too, that Prime Minister Vukic saw the demands of all pensioners in which he wanted in one extremely responsible way to go into this increase in real-time pensions. The real basis is actually the essential charge of the budget. The real basis is essentially what we call exports and what we call the inflow of foreign direct investment. This is what the Ministry of Economy recognized and essentially created its 20th division on the basis of the first nine months of 2015. When we talk about the division of the Ministry of Energy, which was divided by 26, we should boast that Minister Antic recognized this topic in general when we talk about energy efficiency, because what I think my colleagues used to say and about energy efficiency and biomass have not seen is that there is a 129th division of energy efficiency in the work of 160 million dinars. Therefore, I think that here and as parliamentarians we have contributed a lot to making it known somewhere as the need for a certain item in the budget, although it is probably small for what Serbia should do. But there are some funding models that we simply have to deal with in the future. Surely there will be certain credit lines and certain opportunities will be opened from these credit lines in agreement between the state and the banks, not only for citizens to enter into the energy efficiency process and raise the energy efficiency levels of their facilities, but also for local self-government, as we have said, part relating to biomass and when it comes to switching heat from gas and oil to biomass. It is also interesting to say that there is this investment component, that is, the development component that we are talking about today in terms of energy, but it should be said that there is also the construction of this interconnection that is very important to us. What we really should thank the ministry for, is that it participated in the Council of Ministers, because now on 14 December we have as a Western Balkan country the establishment of a parliamentary pleum of the energy community, which will become a permanent delegation in this Parliament as of next year and will participate practically in the creation of a policy of the energy community and the EU itself. Not only will the Council of Ministers participate, but parliamentarians also. So, with all our ideas and biomass, we simply make our full contribution. But it should be said that what I think is that fellow Petrovic may not have been informed enough about energy and biomass, that it is necessary to pass a set of laws that need to create preconditions for such a thing to happen. One of the laws is exactly the Agricultural Land Act, which the Minister of Agriculture has always spoken of, as well as what we have prepared -- certain amendments relating to the lease of agricultural land for the needs of biomass production, which are somewhere in the fifth category and have never been used. I don't think there's gonna be any controversy about that. I think such amendments will be accepted. That's what one of our constructive approaches to all this is. When we talk about the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, what needs to be commended today, because today there was no opportunity for Minister Ljajic to say it, which is to be commended that at all, the withdrawal and increase of subsidies from 1.4 billion to 1.5 billion is also part of the one relating for the first time to those subsidies that we had in the form of vouchers. That's a 230 million item, but it should be said that there are also incentives for infrastructure. Especially when we talk about certain tourist facilities, such as Serbia Ski resorts - 10 million dinars, the Old Mountain - 20 million dinars and Park Palic - 13 million dinars. This means that certain objects that have already shown an increase in the number of tourists will indeed be promoted and thus that increase that we have had so far to 12% will grow. When we talk at the end about the social dimension of this budget, it should be said that at the end of the budget it shows that it is not just enough to pass laws, that certain items in the budget must also support the application of such laws, as we had the Foreign Investment Act. But when we talk about this social dimension, we're talking about employees in these investment companies should have a certain portion of the subsidies. For this reason, this part, which Mr Sertic said, due to the adoption of new international rules in the field of accounting, must certainly have its own budget foothold. This has been shown, especially when it comes to funding and subsidies, and that announcement by the Ministry of Industry, which is that a whole set of laws should be passed that will also apply to incentives, but will also refer to the Law on Cooperatives, but also to the conclusion of the privatisation process, i.e. the practical part where we talk about bankruptcy firms, for new models of practically strategic partnerships of these companies. All this suggests that indeed every ministry has come to the heart with a proposal for this budget, that each ministry has given this developmental and social dimension and that simply, the stories that speak of the restrictiveness of this budget do not stand. Because when we translate the word “restrictive, ” it means“ limited. ” The limit must always exist when it comes to finance and money, but the limitation when we talk about having an investment and a development dimension, about having to be social, needs to make a full balance. That's why we say that this budget is extremely balanced on both sides. That's why I'm sure in voting day this budget should be supported. I think that even those who may reject and will not vote for that budget because they are the opposition should consider that by supporting such a budget, they create conditions that simply Serbia has a realistic chance of starting with full capacity in development and economic growth that will certainly be doubled by the next year, and after 2017, perhaps triple that. That's why I think that in voting day we will surely, with all our responsibility, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41137	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar. I'm sorry, the card was in the system. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41138	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Turnover Movement will not support this budget, nor the corresponding laws. I would, of course, like to have Prime Minister Vukic here tonight and I won't say, since that's why I got...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41139	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to, like other MPs, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41140	... A warning that he escaped, but I can say...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41141	I will not allow you to speak out of the question, and especially so notoriously false, Mr. Veselinović. No one escaped from the O.R., the prime minister was all afternoon. You can't muddle this tall home and government like that. So you won't get the word now, if that's the way you want to talk. Do you want to talk about the subject? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41142	Yeah. This budget is harmful to the citizens of Serbia and I will talk about the subject. Every word I say will be supported by evidence. So, when this budget law is passed and all the laws belong to it, Serbian citizens when they pour fuel into their tank, they will pay for one type of fuel three dinars higher, for another 12 dinars higher, and for another 11 dinars higher. Positions, Art. Nine, two, four, six. So, Serbian citizens know that they will pay more fuel, that the ticket prices will be higher, that their lives will be even harder and harder. Serbian citizens need to know that this law on budgets and related laws bear a new burden, new obligations, or reduce subsidies in agriculture. So, the law on incentives in agriculture and rural development envisions a reduction in incentives, predicting that the subsidy will no longer be 6,000 per hectare, but will be up to 6,000, and up to 6,000 can mean one dinar. She'll probably be paid in time. So this is a verdict for people, citizens who deal with agriculture. The Serbian farmer will be the most unprotected farmer in Europe. On the other hand, to know Serbia's citizens that in this set of laws there is also a law of lex specialis, on the Lex specialises on "Belgrade on Water", where special benefits are provided for those who build "Belgrade on Water", i.e. they set up models for "Belgrade on Water", where Article 1 says special construction permits will be issued before the issue of a building permit for high-building facilities, over a gross building area of 30,000 square metres. So, special building permits for "Belgrade on Water". In Article 2, all those who would see this would think it was News.net, said a special construction permit would be issued to perform the spikes. Now, these Serbian citizens have not yet experienced this. So, a special building permit to perform the spikes. What kind of construction facility is this? It's killing into the land of a metal element that needs to secure construction. So, a special building permit, only to build beyond all the conditions that exist for other buildings in Serbia. On the other hand, today, the prime minister here said that planes to New York, Washington, Belgrade, would fly. What does that have to do with the budget and the citizens of Serbia? What difference does it make? There's going to be another doctor, another professor, and he'll probably never come back. What does that have to do with the budget? Is there anything else envisaged to get "Er Serbia" from the Republika Srpska budget? What Serbian citizen will be able to go to America on a tourist trip? Of course all other positions are bad for the citizens of Serbia. Costs for employees will be increased, even though it is said to cut employee expenditure, from 241 billion to 251. The cost of using services and goods from 92 billion to 98 billion will be increased, but, of course, spending on social contributions and capital expenditure will be reduced. So there will be no investment, as they are not now, and there will be no social contributions for the most vulnerable citizens in Serbia. That's this budget. That's this budget, thrifty.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41143	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Veselinović, I also included 35 seconds, as you first spoke, before you broke up. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word then, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In some ways, I can understand some speakers who are not from Belgrade, who are not sufficiently directed to what the "Belgrade on Water" Project looks like or what this part of Belgrade looked like just a year ago. But he wasn't like that for two months, three months or six months, he was many, many years, and all the people living in Belgrade know that. Even though those who spent some afternoon in Belgrade and the last part of the city could see tons of garbage, but literally the garbage in perhaps the most beautiful part of our city, the abandoned railway wagons that fell apart from rust, some other lady without any construction permit, or it bothered anyone at that time that there was no building permit, don't give God to those authorities who had been in power for many years. They didn't mind that some ship's wrecks were parked there, which spreads every day, which seems to be the scene of a small war, not perhaps something that should be the most beautiful part of our city. All of us who love this town and who grew up here, it was hard for us to watch. Many who are now speaking against "Biograda on Water" did not mind. So the garbage dump is better than a new city, rather than an investment, than 13,000 new jobs that this project will provide. The foundations have already begun. The companies have already invested their money when they built the "Geozavoda", it's not borrowed money, it's not a loan, it was a gift to the citizens of Belgrade. A beautiful building that was destroyed before it was restored, where between three and four million dollars of gifts were spent for citizens of Belgrade. This project will not only employ our country's construction industry and not only mean a lot to the city of Belgrade, but also to all of Serbia, because these 13,000 new jobs will not only be in Belgrade, it will be among many people, many construction companies that will work on these projects and, of course, will improve the tourist offer of the capital. It will make Belgrade a completely different place to live and not just a different place to live, but a place where people in the region will want to spend every day, every weekend to come and see something that doesn't exist in their cities. Of course, when we talk about spikes, it's clear to me that people, I'm not a builder, but I asked around, we talked a lot, because it's about land that's near the river. Of course setting up spikes is a complex and complicated thing, because these rods that are being placed need to withstand the burden of building that part, and that is why it is a serious investment, and that is why a special permit is needed. Of course, I also understand when there's political indignation, when in every way it's trying to lower the country's progress, sometimes because of tiny points, and I can understand that, because some people are just like that. But, you know, after all these years, having a direct plane to the U.S., it's not a matter of tourism, it's just that you have the possibility that an investor who has an easier connection to our country to come to invest here. Because of members of our diaspora, which are not few, living in the United States, Canada, because of people who will have transfers from other destinations, including Australia to the United States who can go directly through Belgrade, because of our partnership with Ethicada, which is an income for our airport. Our airport cost, according to estimates up to a few years ago, about 140m euros or dollars, doesn't matter. After the establishment of a more serious service, thus setting up a more serious company, Er Serbia, which is becoming profitable, we today have over five million tourists, or five million passengers a year at the Belgrade airport. Belgrade's airport is worth no less than 500 million, no less than that. I want to tell you how much this means for Serbia's economy, how much it means for new jobs at the airport. We open new parts at the airport every year. It hires some new people. And the people who live in this city who are employed there know all the progress and know how much it increases both our assets and how much it improves the offer, not just Belgrade, but all of Serbia and how much stability it provides. You know, that signal that you have direct flights to America, means that their services have checked everything, that you have full security and the airport, that you have complete flight safety, that our planes are allowed to fly there, not only destinations, but our planes can fly there. You have, therefore, a complete message from that kind of decision, that our country is stable, that it is a country worth coming and investing in, and that is a good message to everyone else not only to those who fly on those destinations. So I can understand that someone doesn't understand it, but I'm wrong when something that's good for our country, something that's good for our citizens, someone doesn't want to accept it, or try to turn it around in any way and say something negative just to take some tiny political point. I am convinced that Serbian citizens understand the effort to change all of this, how many countries are competing to have this kind of thing, how good it is that the government is doing and how much better we really have a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41145	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41146	No matter how many times we repeat the truth, there'll always be someone to tell the truth, I'll have to answer every time, after that untruth to say, 95 billion dinars are separate for social donations, 95 billion in this budget, 95 billion in the next budget. But let's get this straight, maybe people don't understand social protection so we can figure it out. Let's try it this way. So three billion 593 million 930 grand for 5,905 foster parents. For 40,000 families, we're going to separate 298 billion 500 million. For children on the child's allowance, 368 thousand 559 will separate about 13 billion dinars. For a parental supplement that receives about 62,000 parents, we'll separate eight billion dinars and so on and so on. Every time it comes out here with the untruth that social contributions will be denied by one single dinar, I'll go out and say, again, these simple and completely disarming figures, 95 billion in this budget of 95 billion, in the next budget. As for who escaped, who did not, dear viewers, since I suppose someone is watching this, we currently have nine opposition deputies and ten ministers in the Serbian government in the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41147	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41148	So, like this, the first thing that this budget is harmful to Serbian citizens is completely incorrect. This is the second and most important step after the first budget that we realise with four times the efficiency that we've come from. So we have 50 billion current deficits of the planned 192 billion. It's a big step forward. It is a major step towards implementing structural reforms, fiscal reforms, fiscal consolidation and everything else. It is absolutely not harmful for Serbian citizens, it is harmful to input or imply that there are simple solutions and that leaving these policies can be achieved. That's too bad. I think it's completely untrue, harmful, unfounded, unprofessional, without facts, without anything else. Secondly, to make things a little more expensive, but all together, I repeat the tax notice does not increase and that at the level of the general state. When all taxes are taken into account, everyone imposes, all fees, all other sources of tax revenue. So that doesn't increase. The reduction of incentives in agriculture, incorrectly or precisely, but you know what, 49 million at 28 billion. So this year's incentives were 28 billion in agriculture, and next year the budget plans 27 billion 951 million 498 000. It's only 49 million less, they missed it. Is there a developmental side to this budget? We planned 50 billion last year in the central government's investment budget, we made 30. This year we plan 40.9 billion directly on capital expenditure plus 12.5 billion on the Department of Industry's division of eight billion on investment incentives, and 4.5 billion on so-called investment incentives. SIEPA projects for new stimulating investments. Six and a half billion in railways, that increase refers to participation in the loan, I have to repeat again the sixth time tonight or today and 9.6 billion in terms of the Ways of Serbia and the Corridors. Since the corridors and roads are consolidated in the general government budget, the total capital expenditure in the budget under different types is 69.5 billion, and at the level of the general state is 122.9 billion of the basic capital budget, plus these 6.5 billion railways, plus 12.5 billion at the Ministry of Economy. Since these things are not consolidated at the level of the general state. Total of 141.9 billion capital expenditures at the general government level. Minister Vulin just said there's no reduction in social benefits. I'm telling you there's no reduction, there's even an increase in capital expenditure. My point is, my concern is that we won't be able to realize as much as we planned for capital expenditure, not that there's enough money. We've provided more than enough money and I hope you chose all the best projects. Therefore, it is up to us now to realise this and to achieve the development results of these investments, not that we have not planned enough and have been sufficiently resourceful in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41149	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41150	Thank you. Very short. I have to join my fellow ministers who have highlighted the importance of opening a direct line connecting Serbia and North America, or the United States, as someone who's been doing this job for a while as part of his time at JAT, and for a short time at the Ministry of Traffic. I must point out that it is indeed one news that encourages and something that can be multiplely positive to affect our entire country. It's not just one simple traffic communication from point A to point B, it's one serious development opportunity that from our country can turn into one serious hab in this part of Europe, which would be the place where all the airlines meet, all the destinations from neighbouring countries, from across the region and from there to establish a number of lines, which towards Western Europe, which according to North America. This, of course, creates more effects than increasing the number of passengers at Belgrade airport with all the elements that it carries in itself, but also a whole set of other business opportunities, different forums, congress tourism. So, really something that I can't do as a man who deals with politics or as a citizen to understand, as the need for any of the MPs, whether they come from power or from opposition, to question the point of view of their importance. The key I came forward for is a set of incorrect data that my colleague, MP Mr. Veselinović, presented and related to the increase of excise duty on oil derivatives. Since I suppose a colleague could have been in the mood and had time to further and to better analyse, I want to point out the correct and precise figures and data, because there's no need to disturb the citizens. So the new amount of excise duty introduced by this law is equal to 1.45 dinars for gasoline, 2.95 dinars for diesel fuel and 0.16 dinars for tng or liquid oil gas. This raises doubts about the amount required by this budget, and the whole relationship has been made primarily out of the need to reduce procedures to tng that have so far been, minors identical to those burdens, as well as other derivatives, and we know that all of our citizens have invested a lot in installations and certain systems, in order to adapt their vehicles to the use of oil gas, that the price of this liquid oil gas has increased over the past few years and that it is no longer so profitable. We intend to put less burden on tng, so I repeat to my colleagues Veselinović and other MPs and citizens, 1.45 gasoline, 2.95 diesel, 0.16 TNG. As a minister who at this time of day deals with these issues regarding the supply of energy to our entire country, I must make my expectation that, as a result of the further decline, the price of crude oil we are experiencing today. Today, the price of barrels of type Brent, went below $40, that it all creates one projection that it is possible that due to this fall this excise tax will be covered by this fall in the price of crude oil and will not ultimately reflect a price increase towards the final consumers. For TNG I'm absolutely sure, for gasoline it's almost certain, and I believe and I hope that something like that will happen for diesel, if it doesn't happen, we can have a minimal price increase, so there's no need to scare the public, especially not really bid some of you known figures, type of double-digit dinar amount, absolutely nowhere stands, not part of this legal project. Finally, apropo of what my colleague Vulin was talking about, I must add something that is on the item in the budget of the Ministry of Energy, and in the last budget of 2015, at the position of support of our worst citizens, i.e. to our fellow citizens was for the purpose of an energy-hazarded buyer, 700 million dinars for free kilowatts, free cubic gas, and this year at that position, it was 1.6 billion just more than 900 million dinars, more to support our citizens who needed the help of more people who would be part of those regulations, in addition to those social categories, therefore, unemployed, we also introduced a category of those people who needed support because of their impaired health conditions, those who simply have the state and the system that would not be able to reduce the supply of electricity, because they would have seriously brought health and life, and in this way, we will also need in terms of housing assistance from the 25 members who, who need the most of income, who have access to their needs to the help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41151	I thank Minister Antic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41152	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that since today we are discussing the most important act that the National Assembly brings, and the Budget Law certainly is, that MPs of the former regime show a greater degree of anxiety than usual. It's not something that's controversial, we're used to it, and we're used to a lot of insults. Otherwise, we're very tolerant of them, but what's controversial and what we can't get past, that's when we're not telling the truth, that I don't use any worse word. The reason for their anxiety today is reflected in the fact that they base their policies on one of the wings burning in Serbia, or worse for Serbia, it is better for them, however sad it sounds. But what's the problem, it turns out to be different in practice. In practice, it turns out that the better Serbia, the worse it is for them, their parties or their movements or associations of citizens. And one stranger and another party, not to mention now, that I would not cause a replica, so we are so soon from the previous speaker, the great leader of a small association, which my colleague Atlagic would say, we have heard a series of lies, an insult to the most various possible accusations and criticisms, but there is one problem, and that is, we have not heard one single argument. He said in his statement that he was going to give some evidence, and he didn't give any evidence. Unlike him and his parties and movements and all parties in which there was both DS and other DS and third DS, perhaps Borko will make the third DS, we today bring a budget that is primarily real and responsible, because it provides for a continuation of savings and rationalisation in public consumption, but despite how we heard and how all the ministers today and the prime minister who spent almost all day here stressed that it contains a significant development component, as it foresees major allocations for capital investments. We haven't heard a single argument here all day that would disprove these thesis and these facts, but that's why we've heard a lot of lies. I'm asking a question, who did we hear those lies from? Of those who have completely destroyed and destroyed Serbia's economy, from those who have led to the loss of 400,000 people in Serbia during their government? Of those who gave the state away, literally gave it to the tycoons? Of the ones who did the robbery privatisation? Of those who have left a public debt that generations and generations will have to pay back? Are they of those who brought the state and the people literally to the begging stick and filled their pockets with dignity? Do we listen to these criticisms today? The only thing they know about it is that they lie. And they lie all the time. They've been lying all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41153	Please, Mr. Markovic, speak with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41154	Aware of the risk that I may also get a warning, I do not want to deny the citizens of Serbia the knowledge of the truth, which is that they have been lying all day today. That's what you know, Mr. Chairman. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? It's a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41155	Mr. Markovic, please, you can say it in another way – it is not true; but do not use this word in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41156	I repeat that this budget is a development budget, which can be concluded on the basis of the categories shown as expenditure on capital investments, i.e. capital expenditure, which you can find in the draft budget itself, if you have read, and I do not believe you have read, carefully this budget proposal. What I would point out as positive is the continuation of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, the continuation of austerity measures, restrictive consumption, the reduction of public spending in GDP, and that is what will lead to a sustainable debt, as you said, Mr Vujovic, a sustainable debt and a sustainable deficit. Our main goal is to increase the inflow of foreign investment, both foreign and domestic, improve the overall economic environment, heal public finances, heal the overall economic picture of Serbia. Our goal is to achieve a level of macroeconomic stability which, in my opinion, is this draft budget law and we achieve. For all these reasons, I would like to call on us to accept today's proposals, but also to reject all the criticisms we've heard today as completely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41157	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41158	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, I also thought I would give up the discussion, but I need to express my gratitude to the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister and Mr Vulin, for the promise of resolving the debt problem of military pensioners. What the Prime Minister promised last year, here, is now being realized. I am glad that my belief that this promise will be realized has come true. It is clear that in all this, in the solution offered, there are also people who are not satisfied with the offer, but what is very important – the solution offered offers two options. One option is the extrajudicial alignment, one that doesn't respond, can go the other way and that will be recognised. What I would highlight and express is the organisation of the PIO Fund to organise and inform in a very short time almost all interested people about how to solve this issue. I think it's commendable and they need a confession. Most importantly, a correct approach to those people who are in their late years, where his thinking is not always, given the years, etc., that they can understand, takes a lot of time and patience to understand this and I must point out that I have not encountered a complaint from people about the behaviour of members of the PIO Serbia Fund. It should be pointed out and it's a professional relationship that we should cultivate, not only on this occasion, but on any other business. As far as this is concerned, I'd like to ask Minister Vulin to consider the next possibility. In fact, an option has been given for people to declare by December 10th that they want to solve their problem through extrajudicial alignment. I think it's a short period of time and that it's necessary to take advantage of the opportunity to give some other people who, for various reasons, are not able to plead. I'd just like to give you a few examples. You should bear in mind that there are many people sick, immobilized, that there is no one to go on behalf of them, that many people are absent, that the addresses are incorrect, etc. On the other hand, you have cases that people are part of a trial to solve this problem started, but it can be settled in front and behind the court, but it's not over yet. It would also be in the interest of the beneficiary of military pensions, as well as government. I ask you to think, in that sense, as one solution and to extend this deadline and create a chance to allow people to solve this problem in this way. When it comes to the budget, I think there's been a lot of talk here. I am inclined to express my satisfaction, and that is what our President Milan Krkobic spoke about. We can criticise this budget one way or another. But the fact is, I believe that no one here in the government is satisfied with what was given to him at his disposal, but these are our options. What's the whole point and the truth is that with this budget and in the previous year, we stopped our economy and our society from going further. If we stopped it, and we did, and all the indicators say it was done, then it's great progress, big success regardless of demeaning—and we get nothing; etc. From here, so now slow the stairs down the stairs we have to build, move on and open up some perspective. If that's the case, and it seems to me that it is, then there's no reason why we shouldn't really support this budget I'm supporting it from that side, as our parliamentary group will support it and I wouldn't say anything about it anymore, I have no reason to point my finger at anyone right now. I'd only need two more short questions to say. When it comes to funding for the social security of military insurance. There are estimated around 879 million and 200,000 dinars in one position for compensation, compensation payments in case of illness, etc. This means it's supposed to, which I don't think it is, it's probably a reason. So, I don't want it to change right now, but it just shouldn't be happening to us in the future. These funds pay both sick and sick for up to a month and over a month. In civil society, and this is also foreseen in the ministry by the appropriate instruction and regulation, that up to a month of sick leave the employer's burden, i.e. the ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Defence, leaving this social security fund for over a month. I, from this material that was attached, see that this topic was led by discussion and correspondence with the Ministry of Finance and that the Ministry of Finance insisted that it remain, and that it was in the previous period and probably, I suppose there are reasons for that, but I want to point out one fact, it goes to the board now, it's not that problem, it goes to the expense of getting medicines for the needs of military insurance and treatment in military health institutions. That's the amount, so for about 600 million, there's a chance. And it's no problem for me to tell you, people get recipes, they can't get a cure in military pharmacies, they go to a civil pharmacy, but when you add it up, it's more expensive, it comes to 25 to 35 percent more expensive than it's obtained through the proper supply facilities. I think we should just say it in the future and not let that and that, why, say, throw about 75 million into something we don't have to. Next question, question VMA. I think it is unnecessary to say anything about the VMA as an institution, as one institution, which has acquired its image and reputation not only in this country, but also beyond, and I was pleased when the minister said in the debate that it had the same attitude and principle of the relationship between the development of health institutions, whether they were military health or civil. It's the only proper behavior from how many of our medical institutions are able to work, to heal, to carry out first of all prevention, so much will be a healthy nation. As much as our facilities are incompetent, our nation will be sick. In that sense, we need to develop such an attitude and behavior, and some view that it has, that it has an animosity toward VMA. I mentioned this for another reason. You know that VMA is open, because of its capacity to civilians, and I have to say that whoever comes to VMA, you'll see that VMA is swarming with civilians seeking proper medical help. There's one problem, I don't believe anyone does it on purpose, but they're simply a problem with funds, but the fact is that out of the total services, about 47% of the services are not charged by RFZO. One effort should be made here to resolve, as the military health care pays regularly, as I know, to civil health for the services done, to the military insurance companies, should be made to make efforts to reduce at least this gap, if it cannot be completely eliminated. So 47% is not a small figure and it goes to the top and quality and maintenance and training and treatment and equipment procurement, modern devices. It's devasting VMA. I would not want VMA to lose any of its equipment and in terms of order, discipline, knowledge, title, health services, to lose any, but rather, I would like it to continue to walk towards a respectable institution that is priced, respected, and gladly come to it, unfortunately, all those who need it. Thank you. I think I've made myself clear, what my wishes and intentions are. I have no evil intentions. I simply want to point out the need for this problem to be solved in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41159	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41160	I think you understood me when I said - while I'm in this place, I won't make any difference between the VMA and other military institutions or civilians, because I simply don't think we have the right to do that. It's been a long time since hospitals were built. We have a great need for hospitals, so we can't give up any of them, whether one or another hospital has a capacity utilisation greater or less. But, and the situation in which we are, the only thing that would be right for me is that all of our resources, whether they're civilian, whether they're military, would be placed in the service of our citizens and those who need help. You've probably noticed, I'm trying to pool these resources, not only not make a difference, but also motivate them to be even better. As for what you say about debt and all that, everyone here has a look of their own, the RFO has one look, and in the shortest time I'll put them together, so they'll cross those attitudes. Either way, he can't put up with the system either. It's something that needs to be solved. I'll be the happiest if I don't make it, that no one else makes the difference, but that we make the most of all the capacities that exist in both systems and that if one system can jump in more, other less, periodically, or how, that makes no difference. It's important to help people, it's important that they get therapy and services in time and diagnostics and everything they require, because you know, the sooner a disease is discovered or a diagnosis is made in time, the better chances are, so we don't have any right to separate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41161	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41162	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, fellow MPs, here we are now in the 13th hour of the budget debate. We've really heard everything today. There's a lot that has to do with the budget, but also too much politics for such an important law to be passed, I'd say the most important law we've passed over the year. There's been a lot of speculation in the media based on unofficial knowledge. What is absolutely certain now is that the government will have to reconcile its profits and spending so that the deficit at the end of next year does not exceed 4% of GDP, which would continue to be a positive trend for the deficit reduction. What the public is most interested in is what the budget shows about the announced resignations in the public sector. The salary fund in 2016 must be reduced by 3%, and money is allocated in the budget for public workers' severances that will be jobless. As I have already said, budget money is also allocated to public sector workers who will be out of work in the coming year. Although financial strategies predict that cancellations should be given to about 30,000 people, implementation of the obligation will depend on political will in 2016. I really don't see any reason for any surprise when we talk about political will, because it's perfectly normal for such things to solve politics. It should also be said that planned layoffs, although necessary, could prove to be perhaps excessive, as it could endanger the functioning of education, health care, and perhaps even safety. I'll just remind you that the deal with the IMF is that the number of employees in three years is down to 75,000. It has also been said that at least by May 31st, there are 17 former giants left. Mr Sertic said there will be no extension of these deadlines for their survival. For one of them, Galenika, the state will try to find a strategic partner by that deadline, which, of course, will not be easy, given how devastated this company is in the past. When we talk about companies going bankrupt or companies to be sold, I have to give an example. This is an example of Northtrans in Sombor, where the state must respond much faster on such a case than it has been before. A healthy company, which unfortunately had major problems after the robbery privatisation, has made an extremely good plan, under which all those who owe, including many large companies, such as NIS, are agreed to pay 60% of the total debt in the wars, while 40% of the debt plus the tight interest is dropped. What's going on? Such a plan goes to a commercial court and gives the judges of the economic court the right, which, by the way, is not from Somboro, so that they do not know the problems caused by Somborce, namely 160 people who are employed in Northrans, to decide that this plan, which otherwise received a positive opinion in the Ministry of Finance, that the plan is annulled and thus almost to be pushed into bankruptcy by a company with an average of 40 years, which has a realistic chance of getting out of these problems without bankruptcy. These people were at the finance ministry yesterday, and they talked on the subject. I'm asking the Ministers to try and solve this problem, because they're not looking for anything other than an opportunity to work, not that one of them is making social cases, especially not that the Court of Commerce and one man does it. When we talk about the budget, a lot is said, I'll just try to sublime some things that I think are important. The planned fiscal deficit at the Republic level for next year is 121.8 billion dinars. The planned fiscal deficit for 2015 was 191.3 billion dinars, and by the end of this year, it will be approximately 100 billion dinars, including old gas debts, military pensions and subsidies in agriculture, which is of course a positive indicator. This budget, as before in 2015, has been supported by the IMF and is a key part of the programme, which at the same time solves the deficit problem, but structural problems caused by the deficit. The budget for next year was based on the forecast that GDP growth will be 1.75% in 2016 and inflation is 2.8%, which is realistic, not a populist assessment. Budget savings for next year are planned on all expenditure elements, which is also good. The main objectives in the next medium-term focus on continuing the implementation of fiscal consolidation measures, maintaining macroeconomic stability in stopping further debt growth and establishing a trend in its reduction, which is in line with the agreed arrangement with the IMF. It should also be said that the government's recognition came from all relevant EU institutions. The focus, of course, is also on strengthening the stability of the financial sector's resilience, removing barriers to economic growth and raising competitiveness by implementing comprehensive structural reforms, continuing public enterprise reforms, which is most important, as well as raising public sector efficiency and continuing export growth in relation to imports. Of course, there's always a grudge, we've heard a lot of them today. Our parliamentary group will look back at two. We expected, however, that there would be more financial resources for agriculture and greater subsidies for small holdings. It is something that citizens expect and expected from this budget, regardless of all the problems this country is in. Maybe it's a neglected topic, I think the only prime minister is talking about it today, and that's the Department of Sports. We also expected more funds, because every penny that is given to sports, it returns hundreds of times. It's not just investing in sports for some, maybe going to say luxury, it's investing in children, it's investing in health, and it's the best prevention to have a healthy society. We believe that Mr. Udovic, as one of the top athletes, shows, in his example, that young people get involved in sports as much as possible and that he needed to be provided with even greater financial resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41163	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41164	I'll be done soon. There is a long way to go towards the goal ahead of Serbia, and therefore the key issue is that fiscal consolidation and structural reforms continue over the next two years. Mr Vujovic's full support from the parliamentary group and, of course, in the voting day, we will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41165	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41166	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft budget for 2016, along with a set of accompanying laws already under way in the Republic Parliament for 13 hours, I would say a quality debate, according to the SPS parliamentary club, is a confirmation of the commitment, determination of the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue a reform-success course. The government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to run a responsible economic and fiscal policy. These proposals show that the precisely defined objectives are to be achieved, and I would say the government is firmly in its hands holding economic and budgetary and financial parameters, and that is of paramount importance. The economic recovery, in our opinion, according to the SPS parliamentary club, is visible, and is primarily the result of the responsible, serious and committed work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the difficult and responsible measures, the difficult and responsible reforms that have been taken, Serbia is on track to finally solve the problem, that is to finally address the state of public finances, and that is something that will allow us to look with greater optimism and greater certainty at the period ahead, and that is something that will allow us to invest in the future. Serbia has managed to achieve good results, despite fiscal consolidation, a dynamic growth has been achieved, from recession to a positive trend in growth, and this is something that is very important and significant. Serbia has taken, as I have already said, difficult measures and for the sake of Serbia's better future, for the better future of our citizens. Had it not been done and not entered into the reform process, structural reforms, Serbia would have continued the path of financial bankruptcy and financial collapse. What today opens the door to Serbia worldwide is just a successful reform in the area of the economy. It is something in which Serbia is recognizable and respected. Serbia's reform path today is completely clear, in our opinion there is no alternative. Also, today it is quite clear that the start of the reform was actually a question of Serbia's survival. It is legitimate that any political option has a critical focus on the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is legitimate to speak critically about the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. When you have a critical view and you speak critically about economic policy, then it is good to hear what is an alternative to Serbia's successful reform path, and it is not a political demagogy leading to financial collapse, towards financial bankruptcy. It would be good to finally draw a line, to see how much Serbia has cost each day to postpone reforms in Serbia. For us, economic recovery, we talked about this during the debate on the additions of the Budgetary System Act, the national interest, and we believe that absolutely no one has the right to distort the realisation of this important objective by their irresponsible proposals, because the realisation of this very important and significant objective depends on the realisation of the numerous key objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's the point? We have to keep making money. Serbia must continue to lead the austerity policy, lead a restrictive policy, spend far less than it earns, continue to go towards reducing the budget deficit, towards reducing public debt, and Serbia must continue to go towards economic growth and economic recovery. With modern and systemic laws adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and with a clear strategy and plan of the government of the Republic of Serbia on economic and fiscal consolidation, results are visible in the fields and areas of the economy. We have said many times so far that reforms include brave and difficult and economic, but also political decisions, decisions that do not make you political popularity, when we talk about political decisions, but reforms are made precisely because Serbia is far more important than any political party, reforms are started to make normal lives in Serbia and that Serbia in economic terms would be a healthy country. Today, we are talking about suggestions based on sound foundations. Our goal is clear – sustainable economic development. Our goal is to improve, progress, a positive shift in each sector, but to make this shift and that improvement based on sound foundations. The law we are talking about today, primarily the 2016 budget, is one of the most important laws, i.e. the most important law, the law to provide, enable life in Serbia, which should also enable other important laws to be implemented in Serbia, and it is very important that today we have a realistic and realistic proposal, a proposal that is realistic, is realistic and is in the interest of citizens. Imagine if we had an unreal budget, we would have an unreal life, we would have the inability to implement all those other important laws in Serbia. So we are not saying that the job is done, but it is quite clear that Serbia is on a good path, that we have a positive trend, a trend leading to a better, clear intensity of the government's intention to make huge efforts and work in the coming time period to keep Serbia on track. I can't. I can't. I can't. I can't. But what is important, Serbia is in a good way, Serbia has a long-term plan with clearly defined goals and Serbia has a strategy. That is why we say with certainty today that Serbia in the future will be an economically successful country, a modern country. That Serbia wants to be a country that wants to be part of a family of European peoples, a country where we will have a new infrastructure, new investments, new factories where the citizens of Serbia want to work. Today, the investment climate and the business environment in Serbia were also discussed. We believe that, above all, the political and economic stability, with the conditions and incentives that Serbia gives to potential investors, is something that makes Serbia, I would say to the most attractive country in this part of Europe for investment. Much has been done to improve the business investment climate, to improve the business investment environment, with the aim of making Serbia an attractive investment destination. We have to keep and maintain the fiscal discipline we have at this point. We must continue our determined and continuous fight against the gray economy. It takes far more income than public enterprises. It must continue to reform public enterprises. Public enterprises must be far more efficient, but far more rational, or cheaper. We fully agree that it is important in Serbia to start a fundamental reform of the public sector and that is the concept that we accepted at the beginning of the mandate of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is something defined by the exposé, and very clearly and explicitly said – public reform and strengthening the private sector. We believe that in the private sector it is now the future. The private sector is also of paramount importance to the economy, because it opens up new jobs, but the private sector is of paramount importance to the state, because the state lives precisely on taxes and corporate tax. Looking at that aspect of the budget itself, it seems encouraging, because these proposals set out, it seems to me, three times as much financial resources to encourage small entrepreneurs. So Serbia wants to continue to run a restrictive policy and austerity policy, but it will continue to run a socially responsible policy. So, with a responsible relationship, first of all, according to the socially most vulnerable categories of the population, but despite saving, this budget has its own development component. Greater allocations for capital investments, infrastructure projects are noticeable. We think it's very good. Because saving in a period of crisis is good and it is inevitable and it should be a priority. But saving in itself isn't enough. Serbia must find a way to develop and deal with what are burning issues today, and that is the issue of economy and that is to address the issue of unemployment. The only realistic way to solve this issue is to realise development projects, infrastructure projects and capital investments. We fully agree that the next time period, the period ahead of us, is a turning point for Serbia in economic terms. We believe that as defined by the law, we will be resolved the issue of privatisation and the liquidation of enterprises that have so far been a burden to the republican budget, which do not, in fact, exist, which do not do, have no production, do not make profit. We also believe that in the legal deadline, and I think that by mid-2016, it will be resolved the issue of 17 companies that are of strategic importance to Serbia and businesses that are currently hiring around 22,000 people. Today, among other things, there have been important changes and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture. We believe that this is a European model that will make a more even redistribution, when we talk about the resources that are allocated to agriculture, that all those who apply, when I say more evenly, I mean that all those who submit the application have the opportunity and the means to reach certain means. Of course, as a Parliament club we also support positive and good examples of local self-government, I think that's what Balint Pastor said, that he mentioned an example of Vranj City where local self-government units from their resources encourage the development of agriculture. We, of course, fully support and consider it, wherever possible that units of local self-government from their resources should help develop agriculture, because agriculture is a real development opportunity in Serbia. Once again, at the very end, of course we expect a debate in particular, but in principle, we support the legislative proposals that we are having today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41167	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41168	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that you have injured a member of Rules of Procedure's 96th position of the 1st indent 4 speaks of who is being given the question at the session, when a discussion is being held in principle, so it says - MPs in turn, according to whether or not they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word. So you're the last four speakers you gave your word to were all speakers who support the bill's proposals. We have this proposal that obviously doesn't apply, the order and it's made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure where one is in favour, the next is against and so alternating. Now you've completely changed this order, but you don't respect the 96th article that says that someone who's in favor and someone who's in favor has to change, as long as there are those who are against, or those who are in favour. I believe your strategy is that you who are against us, let us talk sometime after midnight, but that's the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. I am asking you, chairing, that you respect this Rules of Procedure, including Rule 96, to say nicely who the next speaker is, of course, he would have to be amongst those MPs who do not support the proposal or at least correct himself by making the next four speakers out of the ranks of MPs who do not support the draft laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41169	Mr. Djurishic, you find somewhere in some conspiracy theory something that doesn't exist. There are MPs who have no more time or MPs who have given up, so there is a bit of a loss in order, but if you want, I will be very happy to give you those minutes and 30 seconds, so the word has a People's MP Marko Djurisic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I will not speak.) Don't you want to talk? Then I don't know why you're... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr Bradic. ) Mr. Bradić can do it very easily and skillfully, if he thinks that someone is rightfully denied to say it. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. After that, MP Balša Bozovic, then Aleksandar Martinovic, then MP Aleksandra Jerkov, MP Vesna Rakonjac and MP Blagoja Bradic. Now the word has a People's MP, Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41170	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to discuss the 2016 budget, it is necessary to learn how to say, fiscal prehistory, or what has happened in the last ten years, especially in the context of the results achieved in 2015, which is the beginning of a three, and I would now say a four-year fiscal consolidation programme. I will paraphrasise what Minister Vujovic said about a year ago, right before the 2015 budget discussion. He then said Serbia has been since 2005. – 2015, more specifically by the end of 2014 on the trajectory of a steady increase in expenditure, income cuts, increases in budget deficits and public debt growth. After the high deficit in 2014, which was well-provided for justified reasons, i.e. because of the catastrophic floods that hit us, we have completely reversed the fiscal outcome in just a year and therefore had the right to enter in 2016 with optimism, but we are still optimistic that we can expect to relax fiscal policy to some extent, that we can hope to achieve the growth of the gross domestic product more than this year and that we can even expect a slight growth of the living standard of the population we did not have, I would say, quite a number of years. Before I go to the 2016 budget discussion, I would like to say something about the 2015 budget, because we cannot view the 2016 budget in some vacuum as a special document, since this is a three-year fiscal consolidation programme and definitely what we are doing this year is directly related to what was done in 2015. And the first question that arises when it comes to the 2015 budget is why did it have to go to such difficult measures in the first place, and I would say, for the people in pain, couldn't it continue with fiscal policy as it was led in the previous period or to apply some little less painful measures for the citizens? The answer to that question is that it was not possible, unless we wanted to have a public debt in 2018 that would be about 90% of gross domestic product and that would continue to have an upward trajectory because we would have high fiscal deficits somewhere in the range between 6% and 7% of gross domestic product and, of course, the cumulative effects produced by interest growth when debt is growing. I think that even once an average informed citizen is quite clear from some of our friendly countries in the environment, what fiscal policy looks like when you get into such a situation, or when you have such high public debts in percentages of gross domestic product. So, more than that, I think, first of all, you're not running an independent fiscal policy, but I'd say someone else is leading fiscal policy for you, so he determines what measures you're going to apply. In doing so, I am not sure that the effects of these measures are absolutely clear, because we see in the case of this country that they apply first far more difficult measures than those we apply today, and the second that they are increasingly in debt, which they will say, have, on the one hand, some kind of fiscal improvement, on the other hand, have some kind of fiscal difficulties in the future. The second question I'd like to ask, which I think should be answered, because it's very important for the 2016 budget discussion, is what is the one that was promised a year ago done in the meantime? The first thing and most important is that in 2015 we planned to cut the budget deficit by 2%, and today we are talking about reducing the budget deficit by 2.6% and not even counting these extraordinary expenditures that we decided at the end of the year to include them in the budget because we had a good fiscal result, and if we did not include them in the budget, or without including these fiscal, these extraordinary expenditures, or paying off the liabilities to "Srbigas", according to "NIS" and the old debt to military pensioners, we would have a reduction in the fiscal deficit of even 3.6% in the first year of the three-year fiscal programme, which envisioned a 4% reduction in the fiscal deficit. So in a simplified language saying, of course, that's not true because it's not a structural reduction of all 3.6%, somewhere we could say that we achieved 90% of the job in the first year. Of course, that's not true because fiscal, structural reduction about 3.4% and 2.5%, but it's still a very good result that allows us to reduce the budget roughly structurally over the next two years by some 0.75% of gross domestic product. What was not too expected or what was not expected in 2015? In the first place, certainly the most important growth in gross domestic product of 0.8% in terms of conditions, I would say, in the last 10 years at least, if not more unremembered droughts, in terms of slowing down the food industry and in the conditions of negative trends in the automotive industry. So we're talking about three, I'd say, key export branches of our economy. This was achieved in the first place because we had an extremely strong growth in industrial production and thanks to our strong recovery, so 7.9% is exceptional growth. And a strong recovery of the construction industry, which is all achieved thanks to the structural reforms that have been made on the basis of which the investment environment has been improved and based on which we have actually facilitated investments in the construction sector. What's the only thing we don't adhere to from our first year program of applying a three-year fiscal programme? The only thing we don't follow is fiscal rules. Fiscal rules make it very clear that salaries and pensions cannot be increased, wages until they fall below 7% of gross domestic product and pensions until they fall below 10% of gross domestic product. So why is this the only thing we've stepped down after a year? Because they have been applied as I have already said very difficult, and I would say to the citizens that in the first year, the painful reforms that gave us so good results that we can allow ourselves, so to say, this luxury that, despite the fact that we couldn't assume at the beginning of the application of this programme, to raise salaries and pensions, because in the end, the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation has been borne by citizens, and they deserve me to tell you under the assumption that they will be rewarded. It is not a big prize, and of course those who criticise this budget will say that these increases are small. They are between two and 4% when we talk about public sector wages and 1.25% when we talk about pensions, but that represents 0.3% of GDP. So we're increasing the deficit next year by 0.3% of GDP. If we know that our goal in 2016 is to structurally adjust the budget by 0.75% of GDP from these 0.3% we are already increasing what we have to do to 1.05. So, almost 50%, we increase our commitment to structural adjustment of our 2016 budget. What are these measures that apply in 2016? Certainly the most important measure is to reduce the wage mass by 3%, which will be achieved by something that is not very popular, which is the rationalisation of public sector employees, and already in January we have to reduce the number of employees by about 14.5,000. I think, and I will be corrected by the minister if I make a mistake that the Udovici Minister said that already somewhere around 12,000 people meet the conditions for retirement from those employees. So let's say that in January this job is going to be something easier. By the end of the year, we have to fire, i.e. through some social programmes, to reduce the number of employees by 20,000 in the public sector. It will certainly go much harder, and I think that we must accept those suggestions of the Fiscal Council that said that we must get into it very well prepared with very good plans because it must not happen to us to retire or to create programmes for people at jobs that we need but to do rationalization by doing most of the cases, not to say in a number of cases, to free up jobs that are not too much needed in some future. Furthermore, the rule continues to apply, of course, that only one person can be employed in the five open places in the public sector and, of course, continues to practice further cost reductions and increase efficiency at all levels. In that sense, it remains a ban on employment in 2016, the collected payments of non-transparent bonuses, prizes and similar fees. It continues to be rationalised because there is a recommendation to review fees for participation in different commissions and working bodies in the public sector. What I think is also very important when it comes to the 2016 budget is that this year as well as 2015, we do not have significant changes in tax policy, i.e. to continue to have a stable tax policy and predictable tax policy, and this has proved to be a very important thing when it comes to tax collection and tax coverage, but also about the future inflow of investment. However, we expect further growth in tax revenues, especially from excise duties, and that is mainly from excise duties on oil derivatives and electricity excises. With the IMF, it is agreed to increase excise duties on oil derivatives in this 2016 budget and this has been done for two reasons. The first reason is that it seems to me that there has been no or at least a better time to increase excise duties on petroleum products, given the historical minimum oil prices in at least the last 20 or 30 years and it is probably the least painful thing to do at this point. The second reason is that the alternative solution was an increase in VAT, and the increase in VAT is far worse because it first violates the stability and predictability of the tax system that we said was very problematic. Secondly, due to VAT volatility, the VAT rate increase is very difficult to predict what effects would have in the first year. It could happen that, regardless of the VAT rate increase, we still have the same charge, and even worse charge, which happened in the past. So VAT would not be a good solution, not to mention that the increase in VAT is far more affecting poor citizens than increasing excise duties on oil derivatives. What's good is that this year we continue to practice conservative or cautious forecasting, or designing budget revenues. It was, in the end, one of the key definitions, thanks to which we have so much difference between what we have projected to be a budget deficit and what we will achieve as a budget deficit. It's not bad to have a budget deficit that's much smaller than the one you've designed. When it's much bigger, it's bad. When it's much smaller, it means you've done a very good and very conservative project. I believe that thanks to conservative design, we can expect that in 2016 we will have a better result than the one we designed, or that we can achieve a budget deficit less than four...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41171	Time. Thank you, Mr. Bauer. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41172	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I am just returning from a big rally in Lazarevec, where I was asked, in a conversation with the citizens of Lazarec, for their part, to transfer a request to Minister Vujovic, for the 2016 budget to speak Serbian, not to use economic expressions that cover up the truth of what citizens are waiting for in 2016. When you say -- aggregate offer, aggregate demand, guilty aggregated demand, rival investment, as the mayor said, etc., therefore, these are not expressions that Serbian citizens can understand. What we understand may be us here, but not everyone, citizens don't know what it means to the end. So, in Serbian, what does the Serbian budget say? The Republic of Serbia's budget says -- citizens in 2016 will be even poorer. The budget says – costs for hiring new SNS personnel are increasing. The 2016 budget reads – there will be greater imports, which will increase the external trade deficit. The budget says there's no money for health care, no money for new jobs when it comes to citizens, no money for agriculture, no money for the security sector, since cops and soldiers don't have enough income, and they risk their lives for our safety. There is money in the budget on the other hand for public enterprises, number one, which are the biggest losers in the Republic of Serbia, whose directors have hundreds of thousands of dinars of salary and some tens of thousands of euros in income. 126m were allocated in the budget for the new 30,000 SNS party fighters. There is money in the budget for fake investors, starting with "Beograda on Water" and beyond. Here, we have information that in Novi Sad, I don't know exactly how many jobs. All in all, more than tens of thousands of euros per employee who will stand eight hours for 15,000 dinars and some screws. These are not investments that can develop Serbia's economy. The budget is full of reforms, reforms, reforms and reforms. And what do the reforms mean for the citizens? They're sicker than that word. Reforms for you mean, number one, release of a doctor. I don't know who's gonna have to treat people in Serbia. Humiliation of educational workers, reduction and withdrawal of pensions, poor standards for police and military, new gatherings, electricity, cigarettes, alcohol, fuel and who knows what else. The budget for this reason does not promise a better life in 2016. Only the environment of the top of the government lives better, while all other citizens in Serbia live worse and worse. That, Minister, you must be aware when explaining to the citizens what it says in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41173	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41174	There are a few reasons why I called. First, the security sector. It's kind of touching when people who've been in power for years remember when they go into opposition to talk about the security sector. Especially when they haven't had one single statement in years. why the police don't have a uniform for eight, nine, ten years. That didn't bother them. They didn't mind at the time. You know, power is sweet, you shouldn't mention it then. There's no need to mention the condition they were in, say, the 2000 armored assets on this side, armored police vehicles. It doesn't matter either. Do these people sacrifice themselves and risk their lives in the land's security zone? Since 2004, there's been a gendarmes. In what conditions do they work? What have we done for these people? It doesn't matter. It didn't matter at the time, because, you know, the government is cute, you shouldn't mention it, we can risk our power. Well, then, when it goes to opposition, then the first thing that's mentioned is that there's little pay for the cops. I have to tell you that the bad provisions that the police officers had by June 2014, then by laws and of course agreements with the IMF since June 2014, which the previous government had achieved, to abolish those 10,000 dinars that the police had as a sort of add-on. The supplement was not included in their internship, it was not included in pension and social security, they only received it as some sort of one-time compensation, without any influence on their basic salary. We were able to agree to get into the pay, to increase their pay base, to increase their pensions and social benefits by so much and that they essentially have a slightly smaller income, that's true, but they would have lost all that if we hadn't done it, and now they have a bigger salary. I'm not saying that cops live well, I always think they should have more and better, and that's why we're trying, and that's why we've provided them, and we're trying to secure next year and today with the prime minister, we've had a meeting with the biggest union of police, but the prime minister and the people of the MUP, we're working hard to ensure that these people have one-time assistance next year, that they have new investments in buildings. So, to provide facilities both in Nis and in Belgrade for the accommodation of our people, to provide new patrol vehicles, to provide new uniforms as well. We've secured in co-operation with the SDPR and a number of armored vehicles that will be used in the land's security zone. We increase their security by modernising all the vehicles that the police use, boats, everything we can improve with our own resources, and by paying back the ministry's debts, we repay the debts of the states that they left us in the amannet, and we try to show that we manage well. So, when we raise our salaries to the cops, we do it from real sources and in a way that these people are protected. It is often referred to as ‘Belgrade on water’. "Belgrade on Water" is a good investment that should provide 13,000 jobs, not only in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. Unfortunately, we often hear about it and I just can't believe that people don't remember what that part of Belgrade looked like before. Just that it's been cleaned up, that the weed was cut, that the shot and the garbage was taken away, that the hooks were cleared and the wrecks were driven away, only that it was done and the new weed planted, it was incomparably better than it was. Not to say that investments and new construction will come from people. People are interested in Belgrade because people in the modern world want to see something that's better and different, they want to see something that's attractive, they want to see something that's new. People are coming to invest. I'm sorry, who bothered all the previous authorities in Belgrade to clean that up just to take that shot and the garbage? It was a tough job. Someone had to change, solve property relations, do expropriations, deal with everyone. You know, that's a pain in the ass. It is much easier to deal with other matters in power, to live happily ever after. Whoever has to deal with it, who cares if the Belgraders have something nicer and better, better keep the garbage. That crap's been standing there for 20 years, and it doesn't matter, and it's great that it's trash. We're not great. We don't want the garbage, we don't want the wrecks, we don't want something that humiliates and completely degrades Belgrade. We want Belgrade to be a serious capital where people will live from their work, where jobs will be opened. We want Belgrade to work. So, as far as the minimum labour price is concerned, I must inform all MPs that the minimum labour price in the Republic is 21,054 dinars. So people can't work for 15,000 dinars, it's not in accordance with the law. It's just not in accordance with the law. Is that enough? Of course not, but it's better than it was. In pensioners, as it is said, 61% of pensioners felt no reduction, no dinars. But that's why they felt a little bit now, but still an increase. They didn't have that increase earlier on a real basis. Now they have a real increase and they don't have to worry about whether these pensions will be paid. We welcomed a three billion-euro hole in 2012 only on pensions and salaries and it was entirely questionable whether we would have to pay out pensions and salaries. They're regular now. They're regular now. We have a situation that pensioners now who have had the smallest income, that 61%, have more pensions than they had before, bigger pensions. Of course, when you include inflation that is now 2% and those pensions that are larger, 2% inflation, compared to 12.2% exactly how much they were in 2012, you see how much they actually had less in 2012, how much less they could buy in the store, because those prices were higher by 12.2% annually. Just for the price of inflation. Such inflation was similar in 2011 and 2010 and in 2009 and 2008. So these are the years when inflation ate those salaries and pensions, the nominal amount was the same, but real purchasing power was significantly less. So this government is trying to show that this country can move forward, no matter what there are people who can't be happy that their country is moving forward. We will try to do even more and even better and regardless of those who have destroyed our future, eaten our years and robbed our citizens of all those years, we will not stop, we will fight for the economy, but also to show that there are no protected ones in the fight against corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41175	I thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41176	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, we, the MPs, have been sent here to this room by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia whom I respect infinitely, which the SNS respects endlessly, whether they went to elections or not, whether they voted for SNS or for someone else. We respect even the 50 people of Lazarets who were welcomed at this magnificent and large gathering in Lazarevec, Mr. Bozovic. I respect even one who throws at you right now, Mr. Becic, because of some anxiety. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Which member do you advertise? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41177	Can you wait, Mr. Sutanovac, to hear what I've broken the Rules of Procedure for? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Which member are you calling? Please, Mr. Granny, you mean which member I've broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41178	Mr. Becic, for those who did not pay attention, but at first I told Article 107. At first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41179	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. Did you hear that now? Go on, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41180	I'm just going to ask you to take care of the time I've lost because of the throw-offs that are contrary to the Rules of Procedure's work on the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41181	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41182	I respect the citizens, I respect those 50 people who waited for this magnificent and large gathering of Mr. Bozavec in Lazarevec. I also respect those 50 people who waited for Pajtic and Ken the other night in Vrnjak spa and I don't know who they were and who they weren't, there were more guests than the local and those people who were waiting for them in Vrnjačka Banja, although this same Bojan Pajtic at Vrnjačka spa came to a party meeting with an official car and about the cost of citizens of Serbia and citizens living in Vojvodina. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Is this about the Rules of Procedure? What does it have to do with the Rules of Procedure who was at Vranjska Banja? Turn off his mic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41183	Please, Mr. Djurishich, don't throw it away. I cannot hear what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is because you keep throwing, throwing, and Mr. Djurisic and some other MPs of the opposition. I can't listen to what I broke the Rules of Procedure if you keep throwing away. You, if you're nervous, Mr. Gursich, please show it somewhere else. Go on, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41184	Mr. Becic, it's a nice evening in Belgrade. Let the drizzle fall, so someone who's nervous can get at that temperature at a very pleasant walk to cool off a little bit. But what I want to say and what I do not allow, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are offended. Bozovic, a respected counterpart of Balsa, had just hurt all citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to understand what Minister Vujovic was saying and what other ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia were saying. They understand Serbia's citizens well. They understand well for those 400,000 jobs they lost under your authority, under the authority of Mr Bozovic. They understand well everything they've done to them in robbery privatisations, but they understand it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41185	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41186	One more thing, I'll remind you, Mr. Becic, I'll also remind Mr. Balša Bozovic, who doesn't want to know, and hundreds of thousands of dinars, how much the directors of public enterprises receive, you know, that was at the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41187	Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41188	... Mr. Tadic, Bozovic and others, and now there is a Law on restricting wages in the public sector and the cataclysmic announcements of Mr. Bozovic, which are neither the first nor the last time, were at a time when he was in charge of this country, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41189	I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babice, and that after that public exposure, they thought the same thing I thought after that exposure. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41190	First, I have to say that the previous speaker spoke for three minutes and 40 seconds, and I want to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41191	Mr. Sutanovac, for the sake of truth in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, as the esteemed colleague says, you must say that the previous speaker was constantly interrupted, and that I was the time I had for replicating with the MPs who were throwing up, I had to count on Mr. Babic, so he only spoke for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41192	The previous speaker spoke of everything, only not of the Rules of Procedure, which is why he was interrupted. So, I'm advertising Article 103, if you'll excuse me. And you'll probably extend it to me, like, 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41193	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41194	The MP has the right to orally point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, directly after the injury has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41195	Just one more piece of information, Mr. Sutanovac. I'll count the time. Mr. Babic came forward immediately after the presentation, but I had already given my word, before I saw Mr. Babic's report to Mr. Minister, and I didn't want to interrupt, but I counted on it when I gave my word to Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41196	And you're doing it, how? You do it the way you decide who you give to, who you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41197	No, sir, I just respect that someone's already got the word and I don't need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41198	I got the same word, and you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41199	But I have to explain, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41200	Well, no, when I'm done, you give an explanation that, as a rule, disagrees with what it says in the Rules of Procedure. So, if my colleague Babic, who talked about everything, just not what it says in the Rules of Procedure, asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure based on the speech of his colleague Bozovic, you had to give it then. You play here all night, you give speakers over the line, you set up speakers who are "for" to go in line, and you probably keep us up until after midnight, that's something that's not in the Rules of Procedure. Do you understand? So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure definitely tonight on several occasions. And when someone mentions DS president in the context of Vranjska Banja tonight, neither is DS president present here nor is there to discuss Vranjska Banja. So, I understand the complex and the need to mention DS, but I ask you to lead this session in a manner defined by the Rules of Procedure. So what you've been doing before is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41201	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. We have already agreed in earlier discussions that you do not know the Rules of Procedure very well, since we are very rarely in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, so that we can shed a lot of light on this, and I have already told you, when you approached the chair, how some MPs got the word. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare on Voting Day? Yeah. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants a word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41202	I just don't know if you can tell me where you read it that it's a smaller budget for both the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Just for the sake of truth if you can check again for the Republic Fund by two billion is increased, and for the Ministry of Health a billion and 200 million. As for firing multiple times tonight, I said that doctors and nurses will be admitted, so medical staff will be admitted, and this only applies to nonmedical staff, because we explained that we have 24% nonmedical, and that the standards are 10%. We won't have a problem. We'll have enough doctors, and I'll tell you one news from today, that one Austria has calculated today that they will lack 6,000 doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41203	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41204	That if it's your wish, I have nothing to do with it, and let me tell you the facts. So you don't fire doctors, nurses. There are dentists that you know about since 2006 that you fired, which we're just paying off now. But, responsiblely, I'm not gonna let doctors and nurses go... (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: In 2006 we were not in power. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41205	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw as the minister speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41206	They're getting a job and they're getting a job. There, just for the truth. You can come here, we have an official budget, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41207	Please, Mr. Sutanovac. Well, you accept yourself to be very unserious. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I was just smiling. ) Please, Mr. Bozovic, you cannot behave like this in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I didn't see it like that. The word has a minister, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41208	So, if the question of what is in the budget is raised, and if in one truly unwise way is commented on the way in which the budget is explained and in a way that the citizens are not able to understand, I really find this extremely inappropriate, especially by a MP who should, if nothing else, participate in the clarification, if he already considers that something is not clear. In the draft budget law, they write numbers, mostly numbers. The numbers are the most difficult form to cover up anything. It's very difficult to interpret numbers incorrectly. If we're going to interpret, then descriptively describe them, then we can say that the budget says that there will be no debt crisis in which the previous governments are, you used to be involved, sometimes not, but in any case, so that they pushed the country into a debt crisis. I will remind you from 2008 to 2012 that the growth of public debt was accelerated, practically doubled during that period, a very bad debt structure, high interest rates. This manifests itself with high annual annuities. What does public debt mean? Who pays the public debt? Citizens. You doubled it from 2008 to 2012. Every country, so it's a country of continuity. Excuse me, let me explain to the chairman. So each state assumes certain obligations, whether one party is in power, whether one regime is in power or another, has obligations that someone else has left behind. It's okay and it's legitimate. We had to respect everything the predecessors left us. I'm sure some new government will only be able to use the positive effects this government will make with its responsible and thoughtful approach. Whether we will suffer a lack of popularity or lack of support from citizens is very possible. It always goes to those who are currently in opposition status at the republic's level, not that, as far as I know, the full opposition, have 20 years of government in Vojvodina, therefore, are not even the opposition, so almost 20. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: what 20 years? Since when? Since 1998, 1999? Okay. I'm sorry if it's not 20, I'm sorry you're almost close. Anyway, so you now have to invest the fact that this government of yours is trying to resuscitate. It's not easy and it's not easy. It's very complicated. It's very complicated, it seems complicated to explain your own responsibility to yourself. But that's another topic. Furthermore, the budget says that there will be no borrowing with overprivileged loans, at high interest rates, that there will be the preservation of Markoeconomic stability, that there will be a privatisation process that, therefore, the representatives of the former authorities themselves, will not quote anyone now, but I also have quotes, said there was poor privatisation, neoliberal privatisation, almost savage privatisation. What's going on now? Can we, within a short time, resolve the situation of these companies that have debts greater than four billion euros, which are technologically lagging, where there are extra workers, where there are lost markets. So the Serbian government now has to solve the problem within a short period of time under very difficult economic conditions. I think there's a missed opportunity for this job to end in much more favourable circumstances. The IMF arrangement had previously broken down and failed to meet the commitments of the last arrangement, so the previous government. This brought down the country's additional credit and investment ratings. I think it's clear to the citizens now, that even if no one is happy when his finances are being managed and controlled by the IMF, it gives him some stability in these circumstances and gives him certain security. If anyone thinks otherwise, I'd like to hear what argument that is. The next thing in the budget, it is precisely because of the problems I previously described by the Serbian government, it will have to go through social programmes to take care of all workers who remain jobless in bankrupt companies. The bankruptcy isn't always the end, it's not always the shut-down, and it's possible that in this process we work intensively to keep every job, but not any job, but a sustainable workplace, where workers will know what they're doing and will have regular salaries. For all others, the government is trying to find a strategic partner that could allow for continued business and sustainable business. That's all the stuff they write in the budget. If you read it well and you can understand the numbers, and I believe you can, and as you can, the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, there is no reason to talk about the budget in such a politicised way. It could be at a professional level, so to illustrate the facts, which is wrong, where it could be more, where it could have been less. It's all right, but to speak in a demagogue way about how the budget is projected to make citizens live worse, so it really goes beyond even good taste, because we have to talk about wages in a way that our country's salary levels depend on economic growth, and the draft budget law sets the basis, so, and the medium term, so if you want a long-term environment for economic growth. So we can't spend more than we make. That erroneous philosophy about the irrational increase in earnings that I also have to say that this is what the former president of the Republic said-- we were wrong when we baselessly and unfoundedly increased salaries and pensions. We've given in under some kind of pressure. We didn't give in under pressure, even though it wasn't there, but even if it had been, we wouldn't have given in under pressure, because it's in the interest of stabilising the country's public finances and stabilising the economy. Is that why we will pay the political price, such as, don't forget, we all praise Germany and Angela Merkel's economy today as really powerful and influential persons, and the basis of that was set by Shredder, who lost power over inefficient ones, at that moment the results that the citizens didn't feel at that moment, but is therefore after a certain time when people saw what that medium-term and not so easily tangible meant at that moment, they saw who actually had a solution, who showed commitment, who showed courage, who showed determination and voted again and long will vote for responsible people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41209	Thank you. Once again, I apologize, I did not expect such disquieting from individual MPs to one lady. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41210	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that a injured member of 107 is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because by who knows which time it is said that someone brought this country before bankruptcy, saying incorrect data. It's been happening all day. I ask you, Chairman, to respond to this, because the 2011 mandate of... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41211	I will respond, Mr. Djurishic, and I will not allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41212	I thank you for warning that some citizens do not know what aggregate demand is. It's easy to fix. I'll say it very briefly. It's in textbooks, and we should educate the people, but it's easy to explain. The aggregate demand is elements of population consumption, state consumption, public investment, private investment. Very simple. So -- food, services, fuel, permanent consumption goods, refrigerators, televisions, etc., it's all population consumption. The state also spends cars, fuel, paper, computers and everything else we spend. It's very simple. So that's not the problem. Thank you for your warning, and we'll explain it very easily, and we can explain it every time at the beginning. I mentioned it out of the blue, believe me, out of the context of the budget, as a variety of sources. That's not the problem. The problem is that seven, eight years of that consumption is financed not from income, but from loans, from gifts, from grenades. There was money, but it's not sustainable. It was nice while it lasted, but it's not sustainable. Then we got used to spending so much, so when the grenades stopped, when we got in debt, then we kept sharing it, and then we went beyond that, and now we just keep doing it. What we want to say – it was nice while it could, but it's unsustainable. And that's why this budget is painful. But this budget, as counterpart Joksimovic said, is not true that citizens will be poorer because of this budget. The very fact that we are planning a 1.75% growth in the social product with this budget means that there will be bigger incomes, that it will be richer. Just the fact that we're getting into a situation where we're reducing the systemic deficit, we're increasing investment, and I said we're already increasing from 50 that we haven't achieved to 30, so we're increasing to 40, so we're adding 12 and a half plus six and a half plus 9.6, you get 70 billion figures for investment. Just by being able to afford so much investment, we'll be in a better situation. We won't be poorer. That's what we're creating, hopefully, a much more successful completion of projects that have been waiting years to be completed and I'm not accusing anyone, I'm just saying that the pathways from the field to the field are not helping anyone. We're trying to finish it, so people can travel faster, transport the goods faster, work faster and more efficiently. Logistics, roads, transport has been shown as one of the main problems of developing Serbia's economy, along with these problems we inherited. Secondly, I have to get back to the dilemma one more time. You guys really have a little trouble understanding the basic things that are going on here, and we all need to know. So there's no secret. There are larger imports, but even bigger exports, and therefore, we will have larger imports and we will have higher VAT collection from imports, that is, import goods, but we will have even more exports, so the net domestic VAT does not grow as much as you expect. Therefore, we said that trade deficits are being reduced and the current balance of payments deficits are being reduced and it is being financed by permanent sources. That's what we said, and that's the facts. If you slow one of them down, please say, but don't throw dust in anyone's eyes and say it's some dilemma now whether bigger imports, and I say, yes, larger imports, but not greater deficits, no greater trade deficits and no larger current balances that include, besides trade, trade records, interest payments and everything else that goes into so-called. factor incomes. We can give a lecture on everything, but there's no point in saying something that doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make any sense until the very end of the fact, because the partial facts aren't a good indicator of anything. The third incorrect finding refers to money for agriculture. He's got money for agriculture, same as this year. To correct myself, a small percentage of 0.1%, 0.2%, less, but 28 billion is exactly the same, and we're changing the way we're going to share subsidies on agriculture and we have a special law that we're going to propose, that we know in advance the list of those who are going to have the right to subsidies in agriculture and we want to dimension that so we don't violate the budgetary balance. Our goal, as in Europe, is to have participation, these are subsidies for agriculture in the social product, but to improve the structure of these subsidies, but don't ask us to sell the story that subsidies are extensive agricultural production, that they are the right way of using taxpayers' dinars in Serbia. No, they're not. The right way to use these same ones, we don't want to reduce money, the same amount, is to encourage intensive agricultural production that will allow productivity to rise by five, six, ten times. I mentioned the example when people make first-class apples, when they make nuts, when they make nuts, other intense cultures, then they earn seven, eight thousand euros per hectare, and when they do extensive cultures, then these 100 euros or 50 euros are necessary to make ends meet. If someone is working on small parcels, inadequate technique, such products are extensive, such as grain, corn, which were once crucial, and today they are not at all, because Serbia has a surplus of these products, then in some ways we are making money for the people of Serbia. We spend that money on something that gives a much bigger effect than investing that money like we suggest here under the IPA program that will refund people's investments in anti-frost protection, anti-urban protection, irrigation and everything that you've suggested yourself here. So that's what we want. We don't want to reduce, save, but to use the money for what makes sense, to have a farm where there will be rich farms, 10 acres of land or 20, and from that you can live very well if you have real agricultural production. That's our goal. Finally, as I said, more money for investments, more money for everyone. It is absolutely unfounded that citizens will be poorer, because citizens will be richer and not only richer, but this will be the way to a stable and sustainable future and that is the essence. We do it in big steps, we make it happen. We've been through the hardest part already. Please, this morning I said, don't spread defetism without any basis. We're the hardest part already finished, and now we're increasing the rate of economic growth, now we're entering a period where we have to complete structural reforms, and then we're in a much simpler part of the way. It's gonna be hard, but you can see the way out and you can see the perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41213	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bozovic, you'll get a word after Mr. Martinovic, signed up before you do. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, is not the problem here that Minister Vujovic allegedly does not express himself in a language that the people do not understand, here is Mr Vujovic's problem much more difficult. The problem is that those who criticise you today have brought the state into the state in which it was found in 2012. They robbed her, and as they robbed the Republic of Serbia, so do they today rob the AP Vojvodina. When you tell them Serbians they're criminals, they're thieves, then they realize they're suing you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41215	I beg you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41216	Here, Mr. Becic, let me explain what this is all about. So when you tell a criminal in Serbia that he's a criminal, which is a very clear Serbian word, then that criminal sues you and says he has suffered the mental pains of high intensity. Let the gentlemen of the DS correct me. At a shadow press conference, Mr. Bojan Pajtic said he would sue Mr. Aleksandr Jovicic for suffering mental pains, because he told him that he was a criminal, that he was a thief, that he was running a criminal regime in the AP Vojvodina, not for 20 years, but he was certainly 15 years old. So they'll sue Mr. Jovicic for a million dinars, he said. So there is neither aggregate demand nor any difficult economic concepts. The man told him he's head of the criminal regime, he'll be sued, and he wants a million dinars for it. He's already sued me in June of this year. He asked for a little less money, 500,000 dinars again because of suffering mental pains, and this is said by the suffering mental pains of high intensity because I also claimed, and as Bojan Pajtic, who is indeed head of a criminal and corrupt regime, which has contributed greatly to the difficult economic and financial situation in which all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are at risk. A colleague from the DS says Mr Vujovic is not expressing himself so that the Serbian people understand him. As far as I know, the Serbian people for those who have mental pain say he's a mental patient, right? Now, those who suffer severe mental pains because you tell them in Serbian that they have been robbed, that they are headed by the criminal regime, here accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it is allegedly responsible for the situation in which Serbian citizens are today, which is simply not true. Here I will show you how the president of the DS, among other things, robbed and systematically and purposefully robbed the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, and we could hear stories these days about how the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia deprived the AP Vojvodina of the government of the province, the citizens of Vojvodina are allegedly going to have a hard time living because of this budget. Farmers are encouraged to come to Belgrade for tractors, reportedly to prevent the adoption of a criminal law on agricultural land, etc. Here, I will now in a simple Serbian language, which everyone understands, to explain to you how the man who suffered the mental pains of high intensity for Jovičić, because of me, because of Zoran Babic, etc., that he, along with his party comrades, robbed the citizens of Vojvodina so concerned and the citizens of Vojvodina that he encouraged, above all agricultural producers, to come to Belgrade to tractors. If I were him, I would invite the couples from Vojvodina to come before the Provincial Government, because the people of Vojvodina and the villagers of Vojvodina did not rob the government of the Republic of Serbia but Bojan Pajtic and DS. How? Here's a very simple one. They robbed the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which was formed in 2006. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Mr. Becic? ) Since 2006... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Is there a Rules of Procedure? What's this? Here you see, as soon as you mention the robbery...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41217	Just please, Mr. Martinovic. I'd like to speak to the MP who's throwing it out of place. (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: here you go. ) Here I am listening and trying to find the difference between Mr Bozovic and Mr Martinovic's speech. (Dear Shutanovac, from town: you didn't find it? ) Since they speak the same way, although I have allowed Mr. Bozovic... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: What did you allow? ) I have to listen to Mr. Martinovic and then I will finally be able to comment on the speech. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: for whom he said... Miss Jerkov, please don't throw away. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I beg you to hold a session. I'm asking you not to throw it away. When you're in this seat, you're holding a session as you feel you should lead. Now let me see if there is any difference between Mr Martinovic and Mr Bozovic's speech. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, who said it? You'll get a line to Mr. Bozovic to tell you what you have. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41218	Thank you, Mr. Becic, but I still need to correct you a little bit. Unlike Mr Bozovic, who spoke on a flat-rate basis, I will speak with very precise data and figures to show both you and the MPs of the former regime, but above all Serbian citizens the technology of the robbery of Vojvodina citizens. So, since 2006, and we've heard Mrs Joksimovic was thrown out for a little while, as they were not in power at the time. So since 2006, the Capital Investment Fund has financed a total of 1,306 projects totaling 66 billion 412 million 581 thousand dinars. What was going on with that money? The various fictitious, simulated contracts, various simulated business relations of money from the Capital Investment Fund have been pumped out of the Fund. Something went to Bojan Pajtic, something went to Dusan Elezovic, something went to the DS headquarters in Belgrade, something went to contractors who had the minority exclusive right to work, or to perform works by contracts they signed with the Capital Investment Fund. For example, you had an exclusive contractor in the field of travel infrastructure, it was Dusan Borovica, and when it comes to high construction, you had famous Igor Rebu and his company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad, which, among other things, robbed the municipality of Novi Becej. In the municipality of Novi Becjej is the famous castle "Hetherland", which was to be renovated under the 2011 contract for the accommodation of children distracted by development. To this day, this castle, otherwise on the ground, is a semi-destructed house with no roof, no windows, no doors, etc. Not that they can't live with children distracted by development, but they can't live with birds because it's an object that's absolutely unconditional. So, Bojan Pajtic and his colleagues from the Provincial Government made it possible for the company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad to obtain an illegal property benefit, Mr Bečić, of 61 million 722 thousand dinars, and Igor Rebi, the owner of this criminal enterprise, the property benefit of 12 million 877 thousand dinars. Here, I'm now using the Home Secretary's presence, Dr Nebojja Stefanovic's to see if what I'm saying is true or not true. Now, the company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad, which robbed through the castle "Hetherland" Municipality of Novi Becej, involved her fingers and in the machinations in the municipality of Šid, where she was supposed to renovate the lower music school "Philip Višnić", and the company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad has obtained illegal property benefit in Shida of three million and 300 thousand dinars. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, if you don't mind, please record these figures. I was trying to be precise, so make sure that what I'm saying is true or not. Then, also in Shid, when it comes to rebuilding the Shid Cultural and Educational Centre, material damage has been done to the 29mm capital investment fund, 472 thousand dinars and the Šid Municipality 98m 243 thousand dinars. What's the matter? The Capital Investment Fund gave money, the Šid Municipality gave money, the work was not done, the money ended a little with Pajtic, a little in the DS, a little with the owners of these companies who were supposed to perform the work. Now, what was the price? The then director of the Capital Investment Fund was Momcilo Milovic, otherwise a close friend of Bojan Pajtic, Dusan Elezovic, etc. I think Mr. Becic you know what I'm talking about because Momcilo Milovic, if I'm not mistaken, is that right? He was led by Dusan Elezovic, the Capital Investment Fund. Now, Momcilo Milovic, in 2007, imagine what coincidence, Mr. Stefanovic, Momcilo Milojevic, in 2007, of this Igor Rebe, who was supposed to adapt "Hetherland" to New Vienna for children distracted in development, so in 2007, bought an apartment of 16 million 555 thousand dinars. Do you know when he stopped paying the price for the apartment? At a time when he started making contracts with the company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad and its owner Igor Reb. Practically, the apartment received free of charge, provided it signs criminal agreements for the adaptation of Heterland Novi Becej, for the adaptation of the Cultural and Educational Centre of Shid, for the adaptation of the lower music school "Philip Višnić" in Šid and such projects, Mr Stefanovic and Mr Bečić, you have as much as you want. Now let's move on. Mr. Bojan Pajtic, a man who suffers severe mental pains over all of this, I assume, also robbed the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. How? Well, next way. From 2006 to 31 December 2012, the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development invested three billion 220 million 367 thousand dinars for some projects to co-finance technological preparation and build new capacities in the area of new technologies in municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. A total of 114 loans have been placed, 55 of which are extremely criminal. A certain gentleman, Aleksandar Lacerlek of Backa Palanka, filed a criminal complaint against then Regional Secretary Dragoslav Petrovic for abuse in co-financing of these projects, and do you know what this was about? We've talked about this from SNS many times. Those from the District Secretariat were giving money, those who got loans instead of paying back, what did they do? Returning syphons, water hoses, toothbrushes, etc. Mr. Aleksandar Lacerlek has therefore filed criminal charges against Dragoslav Petrovic for abuse of credit to enterprises such as "Eko taup" d.o.o. from Novi Sad, “Dendi pro.o.o.” from Novi Sad, all yellow companies, so they pumped money for the campaign, “Biopetrol d.o.o.” from Užica, “Garant d.o.o.” from Futoga, “Merkator d.o.o.” from Vršac, “Zobeks company internesnel d.o.o.” from Banatski Karlovac, “Nedina product d.o.o.” from Banatsko Sokolac, etc. Let's move on, it's not over here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41219	Mr. Martinovic, I understand that you're all saying in the direction that these are the reasons, as you say, robbed money and there will be less money in this year's budget, but you need to find another link to the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41220	Mr. Becic, all that I'm saying has to do with the 2016 budget. Why? The 2016 budget, as well as the 2015 budget, is a cure for the Serbian economy, and the causes of Serbian economic disease are, among other things, criminals from the DS who caused these problems and this disease. Let's move on. A gentleman who suffers severe mental pain, and the Serbian people say he must be a mental patient... What the hell is wrong with you? Well, it says in the lawsuit that he suffers severe mental pain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41221	I'm asking you not to flinch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41222	So, in the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina until 30 June 2013... (National MP Dragan Sutanovac approaches the chair of the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41223	I can only give you a warning, again, and shut you out of the O.R. Come on, guys, what are you doing here? I need you to look yourself in the mirror, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41224	Let go, Mr. Becic. Don't worry too much. They're in pain of truth. What do you want to do? So, in the period until 30 June 2013, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund has through 50 competitions placed funds for a total of 1,059 loans, of which 209 loans are extremely suspicious, not to say criminal. For these dubious loans, as of 30 June 2013, the principal arrived, be careful how many figures they were. Imagine that these funds went to peasants, children distracted by development, socially endangered families, for the construction of social housing, etc. They went into private pockets. Now, look what the numbers are. Members of the former regime may be angry as much as they want, but these are exact data. I'm asking the Home Secretary to check whether this is true or not. This is what a man does. They get angry when I say that a man suffers from mental pain. That's what he wrote in the lawsuit against me. He who suffers from mental pain, the Serbian people say he is a mental patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41225	Please, Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41226	Now, a man who suffers from mental pain from theft and machination says he will not go to a polygraph because he does not recognise Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, so he does not recognise the state he lives in. Here's what he did, with these 209 loans, was embezzled, as far as the principal is concerned, a billion 60 million 38 thousand dinars, and there was interest 41 million 824 thousand 493 dinars, which makes a total claim of a billion 101 million 862 thousand 624 dinars, and I'm not going any further. So this is technology, criminal, robbery technology, which is why Vojvodina, which has led Serbia into a situation to be one of the most underdeveloped states, i.e. when it comes to Vojvodina, a region in Europe. Instead of even telling the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia -- sorry we robbed you, sorry that the children distracted in the development couldn't fit into that alleged castle of Heterland in New Vienna, sorry we robbed the lower music school in Shid, for robbing the Cultural and Educational Centre of Shid, for accepting the syphons, toothbrushes and water hoses instead of the couple. They lecture today as Dusan Vujovic speaks a language that the people do not understand, lecture Aleksandr Vukic, lecture the agriculture ministers, send tractors to Belgrade. Here, dear citizens of Vojvodina, dear citizens of Serbia where your money ended with Bojan Pajtic, Dusan Elezovic, probably also with Boris Tadic, at Momčel Milovic, among those who have done everything possible and impossible since 2000 to fill their pockets, but to systematically empty the pockets of the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbian citizens. That's why I'm saying that the 2016 budget is a cure for a disease called crime and corruption, whose protagonists are the main protagonists of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41227	Thank you. You must agree on who will be the first to receive the word, whether Mr Bozovic or Mr Sutanovac, who is the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dragan Sutanovac, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41228	First, I want to apologize to the citizens of Serbia who are watching the Serbian parliament at this late hour, for having to listen to the exposure in one rude way, as well as this way they are now getting. I don't think the Serbian Parliament deserves to have these people in parliament. This is one big mess and a shame. I wasn't raised to know how to retaliate in the way you did it. I was raised differently at home. But I will do one thing that I think will be clear to you, which speaks more of you than you speak of yourself, which is a text that says – SNS is a mob and a traitor. It is said to be a party that has since 2008 not received a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is absolute proof that SNS is a party that is funded on absolutely illegal, funded by tycoons, mobsters and criminals. Who said this? It was Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic, July 17, 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, I'm sorry you attended something you didn't deserve either. DS MPs haven't insulted anyone here for a moment, no one. Mr Vujovicu, if you think that what we told you that the way we communicate with Serbian citizens cannot be at the level of professors, because simply people don't read those books, nothing was malicious. On the contrary, make it easy for you, that the citizens may understand. What happened earlier is something that's been unrecorded since the time the radicals threw their shoes here, ripped off their shirts, ripped off their cables, and I don't think this parliament deserves it, or the citizens of Serbia waiting to hear what the budget is, how they're going to live better tomorrow. Unfortunately, what happened is not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41229	Thank you. It's been two minutes, Mr. Sutanovac. I wish you were more often in the O.R., so you could listen and speak to your colleagues who spoke very often even very differently than Mr. Martinovic. I'd like you to come to the Great Hall of the National Assembly more often and listen to the speeches of some of your colleagues, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a People's MP Balša Bozovic, a replica, for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41230	Thank you. The chairman, I would answer to the ministers who had, so I think 45 minutes to respond to my three-minute budget for Serbian citizens for 2016. Little wonder the government ministers don't seem to communicate with themselves and I think it's very bad, because Mr. Loncar says there will be enough doctors and there will be enough people in health care, and on the other hand Minister Kori Udovicki announces exactly the greatest layoffs in health and education. On the other hand, I'm curious, Mr. Loncar, to tell me which exact position in the budget is hospital cleaning, and is that item even foreseen in the budget, who will clean hospitals, will they be clean and who will eventually keep them? That item in the budget, unfortunately, doesn't exist, if we're going to talk specifically. Another thing that is very important for Mr. Vujovic, you say from agriculture can be lived. I, Mr. Vujovicu, am not sure that you know that for days it has been a protest of farmers, who in this cold weather and rain are freezing, at this point, while we are here discussing these small hours. You're saying that this budget doesn't mean bad life in 2016, and how do you explain it to families who don't have to buy their children or shoes or textbooks, how do you explain it to pensioners who don't know whether to buy bread or medicine every morning? How do you explain to someone, if you don't know for yourself, how many liters of oil is today and how many years ago? How many liters of milk will it take when you sell the PKK tomorrow? Do either of you take care of it and with what certainty you claim to live better in 2016? I tell you, much worse, unfortunately, by the citizens of Serbia, and certainly a better environment for the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41231	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) Does anyone want to go by the Rules of Procedure, since I have a lot of applications? No, I don't. Mr. Djurishich, the replica. On what grounds? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Based on Boris Tadic's taking the money. So you think Mr. Tadic took the money. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Don't be wise.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41232	Mr. Becic, in the way you discuss Mr. Martinovic and your attempt to, I can't say, be funny, I don't know what you've tried, I have an answer, but I don't think that this kind of speech is the place in parliament and I won't answer. Once a year ago, I made that mistake, I apologized then, got the punishment deserved, and I won't have that conversation here again. In this country, even Dr. Stefanovic does not determine whether he is a thief or not. That's what courts do. We have repeatedly observed in this House that the way of debate, as we have heard, is inappropriate and other chairpersons who were in your position, Mr. Becic, did not allow such a debate. You've allowed here the insult I know the answer to, but I say it's not for this place, so I won't say, and the place where it's determined that someone is a thief, whether they're lying or not called a court, is still in this country. It's not the polygraphs, it's the front page of your tabloids, it's the courts. In that court, all of this will have to be proven, whether it's a thief and how much he took and what he took and whether, if it's not a thief and if it's not proven to be a thief, someone else will answer. I want to believe there'll be enough money in the budget and the judiciary can do this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41233	Thank you. I can very easily bring you at least 10 of your speeches, where you insulted your political non-equivocals, where you spoke of your political like-mindeds the same thing as you now claim not to be spoken in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41234	As far as pensioners are concerned, since they are often mentioned tonight, I, like Minister Vulina, will be persistent to say what is true, which is that when pensions are reduced by one number of pensioners, 61% of pensioners have not experienced such a reduction, and these 61% of pensioners know that they bought bread from 2008 to 2012, and milk, and medicine, as they helped their families, especially with inflation of 12.2%. Then they knew exactly how much they had left and what they could do for that money. Now that 61% of pensioners got little, but still some increase in these pensions compared to the period 2008 to 2012, and when they could only expect an increase in inflation, they were experiencing it. As far as I'm concerned, I don't want to be Mr. Lonchar's lawyer, but he said one 20 times, maybe several times, I didn't follow, I didn't count everything, but he said very clearly. If there are reductions, there will be reductions in the health sector, but not in medical staff, not doctors and nurses. So let me do it one more time. As for a few more things, the court decides who the criminals are or, as I like to say, the nice people who robbed Serbia, so I don't say any harder words for criminals. The court will determine who the criminals are. You know, it can't be disputed that some people took our money, that companies failed, that 400,000 people were out of a job. It didn't happen on its own. One of them took good advantage. What I want to tell you, and since I've been Home Secretary, a lot of people have been arrested, many have been charged, many of them are in court now and the court will decide whether they are guilty or not. Unlike some of the past, no criminal charges have been dropped, no charges have been dropped, because enough evidence has been collected. Evidence has been collected that these people, these nice people, destroyed Serbia, robbed those companies. These people will prove their innocence to the court, so the court will decide whether they are guilty or not, and when they are guilty, they will be criminals, if they are not guilty, there will be no criminals, and they will be ruled by the court. I'm sorry there's been a campaign against the lie detectors. The lie detectors are only afraid of those who don't intend to tell the truth. People who are completely clean, who have nothing to be afraid of go to the lie detector, say what they have, the detector shows. The detector isn't much of a mystic thing. It shows what your blood pressure is, what your heart rate is, what are some physiological signs that psychology specialist, who sits on the other side, a polygraph who's an expert, who's been working on it in the police department, people who've been working there for 10, 15 years, and they say if there are physiological reactions that suggest that you're lying. It's not a means of proof in court. No one claims that, but it's very clear to the police whether you're telling the truth or trying to lie to those questions. Polygraphs are only afraid of liars, and usually liars run like devils from the cross of a polygraph. Not at all, so anything can, just don't let me answer the question there. As for some of these things you mentioned about New Vienna, police arrested about six suspects who committed acts of corruption that put them on the line. It's currently under indictment, and I expect these people to have to prove their guilt or innocence to the court. Certainly what the jenotor fact of the "Hetherland" castle has, or has, ruins and money has been paid. It's two notor facts, and whatever's between it is proven, unfortunately, there's a leak destroyed, you can go there today, not that the kids can't go there, there can't be anything there and it's not safe. And that's a notorious fact, anyone who has their own eyes can go to New Vienna to look at the condition of a building that has been paid over a million euros. Who's to blame, and who's to answer to the court? But we also know who transferred the money and who was supposed to build the building? So these are things that absolutely no one can deny, absolutely no one can deny. In any case, we have a government that in a responsible and serious way accesss very detail to each of these problems. As for the fight against corruption and crime, it is absolutely unselective and everyone for whom there is even a shred of evidence, regardless of the party or profession he deals with will be brought before the competent state authorities and these people will have the same opportunity if they are suspected of being guilty of anything in courts to prove whether or not they are, but they will not be spared and will not be selectively combating corruption that we as SNS have shown very clearly, not saving people in their ranks. Anyone who wrongs over the law can expect to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41235	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41236	Here, there's Minister Widowsky, if I see well, I haven't heard her, but, look, let her say once herself, that she said that doctors and nurses would be fired. Here, now she's here, so she'll say. Right? (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Health and Health. ) From the health sector. That's right. Now, let's go, okay, no, no, you said, just slowly, you said that Minister Widowsky said that she would... What do you mean? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: She said – health and education. Let's get this straight, let's start over, you've got the medical staff of doctors and nurses and you've got nonmedical staff. We've got a problem with nonmedical staff, there's 24% nonmedical staff. The normatives in the EU where we want to be in the world are 10%. These people we have in serious surplus will be fired, if you agree for reasons that we could receive more medical staff from nurses, because we have come into a situation, I have to remind you that we have continued as it was, that there is no employment, that there is no specialization, that there are those two years that can't be given specialization, that we are threatened to run out of specialists for literally the next few years. What did we do? I have to remind you again, we've received about a thousand doctors, we've received nurses, we've changed the law here, so we've allowed them to go straight after college, because we don't have time, specialization takes an average of five years, to get these specialists, because we can't get them in one, two, three days, in two, three months. Somewhere around 2,000 specializations so far we've given 1,000 doctors over 2,000 specializations. That's the facts. So these are the dry facts that are verifiable at all times. You set it up, okay, because we agree on it? (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I didn't just talk about it, a cleaning item. Now about cleaners, not what now, a cleaning item? I don't know how you thought there was a special item in the budget here. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Did you predict? No, it doesn't matter. We have a surplus in the administration, sir. Excess in the administration. So, we don't have that problem, we've got crowded people in the administration, they've hired an administration without any order. I repeat, we have 24% non-medical, and it's enough and it takes 10% to make the system effective. We want the system to be efficient, we want to make up for what's lost and what's lost so far, we want to make up for what money has been spent from the EU, and they haven't been seen by the people and they haven't gone where people need to be treated. Hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros and the wrong policy that has been led not to give specializations, not to give a job, we correct it so that we can do this, we include the military sector and we involve everything, we combine everything we have to correct what's wrongly arranged. I'm just telling you the facts, please don't go in there and spread something. It's not health care for the day-to-day political, the consequences are very high. A lot of big ones, not for us, but for those who will stay behind. Do not use healthcare for these purposes. It's not good for anyone. There's no need. We can't explain to the citizens what their health is like, they know, they go every day, so they'll see if they're better, worse or what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41237	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Bozovic, you have no right to a replica. There is only misunderstanding with you, you claim there should be a position in the Republic of Serbia's cleaning budget. This position exists in each individual health institution. Thank you. The word has a minister. Cory Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41238	I'd just like to do it one more time and get it straight. Mr Bozovic, if I have heard correctly, mentioned at some point that I have announced the greatest layoffs in health and education. In 2009, health care alone left as many thousands, perhaps thousands less than these 14,500 cuts in employment, which are not layoffs. We expect at least a third, if not more of that to be retirement, and in any case still a good part to be people who will get severances because they didn't want to retire, but they did get a condition for retirement. So, anyway, there's been a major layoff in the past, it's been done as one act, rationalization, actually, since it's gone through a line of less resistance, and since we haven't thought about what kind of organisational structure, what kind of services we really need, which are the most priority of the services that we need and what needs to be protected, and where we can reduce the number of jobs. We got actually more disruptive systems both in health care and in education. The education did not reduce the number of effective working hours, but rationalisation under quotes was faked. People left with severances, and someone else came to their places, because they didn't change the way the job was organized. This time we do something different, it takes time, it takes preparation, and the most important thing of all is to be really committed to thinking about what Serbian citizens need as services, how to protect them, what health services they are, how they are provided. Also in education, what kind of personnel we need, what schools we need, and to concentrate on it, work can be better organised and can be reduced to jobs, but at the end of the ballad, it's not the most important to reduce the number of jobs. The most important thing is to raise the productivity of the Serbian state, because without a country that better supports both citizens and businesses, we will not be able to speed up economic growth and make the progress we need.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41239	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Mr. Bozovic, did you want something? (Balsa Bozovic throws out of place. You have no right to regrets. Miss Jerkov, do you want a word? Mr. Alexandra Jerkov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41240	I signed up for the word, Mr. Vienna, because I want the word. It usually works that way. I don't know if you're familiar with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41241	When I gave you my word, Miss Jerkov, you were not responding, so I had to ask if you had changed your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41242	I haven't changed my mind. First of all, since a lot of speakers talked about a polygraph like this, so it was true that it was about the budget, I would say just one sentence about the magic device, not Dr. Minister Stefanovic, the problem in the polygraph. The problem is that you report the results of the polygraph...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41243	You didn't get a replica of Miss Jerkov, you got to talk about the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016 and the accompanying laws. Do you want to talk about it? Don't waste your time, a replica you have no right to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41244	Do I have to say again, you don't follow the discussion at all, Mr. Becic? You ask me three times if I want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41245	Well, because yet, here's exactly 54 seconds as you speak, you haven't started talking about the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41246	Okay. Please don't take up any more of my time. Will you stop wasting my time, please? You can't take my time anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41247	We don't have an item of greetings and wishes at 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41248	If the Prime Minister hadn't spoken for three hours, it would have been three hours less. Further poverty of citizens, further increase in the cost of the state, concealment of costs and false representation of data, carrying out the untruth about some god-awful saving of the state I see in the budget, in fact there are no words and fairy tales of a better life, I would say that these are the words that describe our debate today and this budget that we are talking about today. Citizens need to know that if they have had a hard time getting a job today, it will be even harder for them to get a job today, because they are reduced employment funds. They also need to know that if they find it difficult to heal or get in order to heal, it will be even harder for them from now on because of the reduction of medical resources. Where do we see that, Mr. Lonchart? We see that in the budget that you've offered us here for adoption. They need to know that if it's been difficult for farmers to date, it'll be even harder for them, because they're reducing subsidies to agriculture. They should know that if they found it difficult to educate their children, it would be even harder for them to do so, if they felt insecure that it would be even more insecure, because in all these positions the costs are reduced. And that's not what we're saying, that's what your data says. In view of this, Mr. Vulin has difficulty following what we are saying, I ask all members of the government to open a page of the 203rd budget of the Republic of Serbia that you have delivered to us. Someone was talking about some kind of official budget, I don't know what the official budget is. What we got, I guess it's a valid version, although sometimes we seem to be talking about different documents. That's one amazing table no. Five expenditures and budget expenditures. There's no fusa note, there's no mention of any transition funds, nothing you read after us, and there's a comparison of the 2015 budget with the 2016 budget. What do we see in that table? We see that the expenditures for employees are growing, that the costs for the use of services and goods are growing, that expenditure on interest payments is growing, which is particularly interesting, given that I understand you take credits to make the interest cheaper, and now interest growth, to grow subsidies, but to state-owned enterprises, to grow donations to foreign governments, flows to international organisations, and the only thing that falls is transfers to organisations for compulsory social security and social protection from the budget. That's what we see from the draft budget that Alexander Vukic provided us, we see from the documents prepared by the budget working group that exists in this assembly. So, you were trying Mr. Vujic, and then you were offended when you said you might not have explained it the best way. When you said that citizens live better, you said that they could see it because you managed to maintain an aggregate demand. So you tell whoever doesn't have to buy the kids a pair of shoes so he lives better because we've held on to the aggregate demand, I believe that's interesting for you. I don't know what you're doing right now. And to whoever loses a job tomorrow to hire a member of the SNS at his post, you tell him it's actually about redefining the required number of employees in the state administration. So with a lot of nice words, you've tried to conceal the essence that's very simple. You or you do not live in the same country as a citizen or you are knowingly deluding all these citizens, and in both cases I really don't know what's worse than those two.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41249	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41250	Here we have a very unusual paradoxical situation that the Prime Minister does not attend the budget sessions I am sure would ask the question – where is Aleksandar Vukic, is it possible that the budget is not important, will not come before the MPs, will not answer questions. Then when a man comes, I'm sorry and what he said, he dares to say anything at all. I guess when the Prime Minister gets here, it's normal and natural to address the National Assembly, explain what the budget is, what the government's plans are for the next period, what the state wants to do. I guess it's a natural and normal thing. It seems just not for some MPs who simply don't understand. Of course, I have to say, although it's not my portfolio, but I'm simply feeling the need because I've heard it so many times today that I just can't react, as I just said about health care, subsidies for agriculture, and we heard it from Mrs. Vujovic, and from Mr. Vujovic they're exactly the same for this and the previous year, exactly the same by 0.15% different, but the exact same round, the exact same subsidies for agriculture, and people here can climb up from the morning of the dark, say they're smaller when they're not. It's just like that. What I'm also quite sure of right now is that there's an absolute fascination here with a polygraph. Absolute fascination. I want to bring in a polygraph to show people what devices and a working man look like. This isn't about who's telling the results at all, but it seems to me that liars are still running away from the polygraph like the devil from the cross and they wouldn't mind who's telling the results that they have anything to tell the truth, but when they have nothing true, those who are invited to the polygraph are all refusing, especially those who are seriously hiding something. I don't just know how and what to tell those people who lost their jobs by 2008. These people were 450 thousand, where they bought their children shoes, where they bought their children breakfast, lunch and dinner, who asked them what they were surviving from, who asked them when they were reducing their social contributions, and they're not shrinking with this budget, and I have to say what Minister Vulin said more than a dozen times today, and he's going to say that, and they're not going to cut that by this budget? Where are those people who bought their children anything? How did those who teach today view them, how could they look them in the eye when they were powerful in the earth at all functions and all levels and today exercise power in many places? As they look at these people and say, "I'm sorry, we ruined your factories, they went into bankruptcy, we sold some suspicious types, and then they sold the bud why, and you had the same result, you ran out of work and went home to look your kids in the eyes and say, "Daddy today, there's no bread, no milk, no shoes, no anything." The way those kids looked, I don't know. What I do know is that this government has made an effort to have at least one part of these people back in employment, to be employed in the private sector, in the real sector, the one that feeds all of us and sustains all of us and that respect that we show to the people who invest in this country, whether they're domestic or foreign, is something for the respect of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41251	He thanks Dr. Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41252	I know that the word often confuses people, so when people read the item -- the donation to compulsory social security organisations, they think it has something to do with social protection. It has nothing to do with social protection. What you're trying to say among other things is that the donation to mandatory social security organisations of four billion in the last budget, and now two billion, actually refers to the transfer to the National Employment Service, for the payment of special cash compensation. It's usually for people who were up to five years old until retirement, and in this way they were helped to get their pension. It's usually a right, a social program that's been done long before. But it's not worth it. Well, good. Let us repeat once again only because of our viewers, that 95 billion dinars, as separate for social protection and social protection rights, not for the social programme, not for the special monetary compensation, not for the transition fund, but for the rights in the area of social protection, were separated by 95 billion dinars, as was the last budget. I also listened to the exact same stories during the discussion of the past budget, that social giving was reduced, that there would be none, that everything went where it went. As you can see, a year later, no social giving is reduced, no one is left without financial welfare, no one is lost child support, no one is left without parental allowance, no one is left without maternity compensation, no one is left without other people's care and help, no one is left without increased care and help, no one is left with any single social right and no single social giving. Obviously, we need to repeat this because some MPs simply do not want to accept that this is a socially responsible government in which social contributions have not been reduced by a single dinar. It's a long night, we will patiently repeat the truth, and you patiently repeat what you mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41253	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a two-minute replica, mentioning the party's president from Mrs Jerkov's MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41254	Misunderstanding or ignorance? Whatever it is, it has the same consequences. Why were employee expenditure increased in 2016? Because they're based on what's earned, based on what's actually increased wages both in health care and in education, both for the police and for the military. Well, that's why it's a change in staff expenditure. But then I can ask you -- on what basis, and here I have a whole table of how the expenditures for employees in the AP Vojvodina have increased, on which the 2006 employee budget in the AP Vojvodina amounted to a billion and 320 million, in 2007 billion and 551 million, in 2008 billion and 928 million, and we come to 2015 -- two billion 83 million? On the basis of which salaries and expenses for employees of the AP Vojvodina were increased by a billion dinars, unless some Pajtići, Elezovici, Jesici hired both aunts and aunts and snorkels and aunts and pets after all? When you say donations to foreign governments, and how do you explain it, and I am also grateful to my friends for the advances from Vojvodina, how do you explain the project from the AP Vojvodina budget, this from the Bojan Pajtic budget, how do you explain this donation to the country's top project "Afrika Agro-Industrial Incubator" in Limpopo Republic of South Africa? What does Limpopo and South Africa have to do with Vojvodina? You don't have children with special needs, or you do, but for an object that leaks, without windows and without doors, but for Limpopo the Republic of South Africa has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41255	Time, Mr. Granny. Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. It's okay, Mr. Sutanovac, the DS is entitled to a replica, but you and Miss Jerkov just picked up, so you can talk to whoever wants to talk. You're not personally mentioned, Miss Jerkov, so just make a deal who wants to talk. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I personally have the right to reply.]] You're not personally mentioned, only DS is mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41256	Mr. Chairman, we entered the 15th hour of work and it is obvious that some MPs have been relieved of their concentration. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: You go if your concentration has eased. ) Mr. Granny, I will allow you to admire me both physically and mentally, and I will remain here until the end, to your joy. So we're talking budget. Minister Vujovicu, with respect for all the other ministers, you are here most invited to talk about it, no matter what, unfortunately, I see that you too feel ashamed about everything that is going on in parliament. Mr. Perisic. Mr. Minister, look at this, this is Mr. Perisic, mayor of the town of Nis from the SNS. He says – if a draft like this passes in the Serbian Assembly, it will lead to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41257	I shut you down, Mr. Sutanovac, because I've asked you to study the Rules of Procedure before. You have the right to reply to Mr Babic's presentation and you can replicate to him, but you cannot address Mr. Vujovic. So, I had to stop you from giving you that explanation and notice, and I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to replicate MP Zoran Babic, for whom you have been given the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41258	I can't speak to Mr. Babic, because it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure, I can speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41259	But you're talking about Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41260	The show was about the budget, if I'm not mistaken. I mean, everything else isn't a topic. I suppose you'd have warned him if he exposed something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41261	What makes you replicate, Mr. Sutanovac, if the exposure was about the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41262	So, if such a draft passes in the Serbian Parliament, it will lead to a reduction in revenues in the city's register by as much as 40%. No local self-government in Serbia will endure that. He's a categorical mayor... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41263	Just explain to me what this has to do with Mr. Babic's exposure? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: we're talking about the budget. He talked about the budget in his own way, and I'm talking about mine. If he was talking about Mr. Babic's budget, why did you ask for the right to reply? So, the right to reply, Mr Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to an MP if the presentation of another MP was offensive to him, or you as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group if the party or party president is mentioned. All of this has been the case, and you've been given the right to reply to DS, but now you want to talk to the Minister, which is what you don't have the right to do in the Rules of Procedure, so I can't let you speak. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: you didn't understand me.) I wasn't talking to the minister. But you're talking about Nis, Mr. Perisic, and it wasn't all about Mr. Babic's exposure. I ask you, Mr. Sutanovac, to take advantage of your time in studying the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr. Babico, you've reached out. You're mentioned by Mr. Shutanovec. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41264	Since they're waving various papers here, Mr. Becic, here, look at what that pasture on the Vracar looks like, and now there are fewer subsidies this year for that pasture on the Vracar, which now looks just like this, Mr. Becic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: What is this subject? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41265	Mr. Sutanovac seems constantly to have what he failed to do, to study the Rules of Procedure... So, Mr. Sutanovac, you mentioned Mr. Babic in a negative context, he got the right to a replica and he in his two minutes could... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, to talk about me whatever he wants? I'm afraid so, Mr. Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. You brought that Rules of Procedure. Anything that's not offensive. I didn't understand, Mr. Babic is talking about pasture, showing some building, I had to listen to it all the way to see what it was about. Here you go, Mr. Granny, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41266	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I just want you to ask Mr. Djurisic to lower his hand, I don't know if he'll fly this Rules of Procedure to the members of the government, to me or to one of his colleagues. What I didn't get an answer for, that's why the AP Vojvodina and why Bojan Pajtic paid four million and 600,000 dinars for the "Africa" project to the province of Limpopo in the Republic of South Africa? Four million and 600,000 dinars. What does Limpopo have to do with the AP Vojvodina? Maybe nobody knows that in this room. I don't think Bojan Pitiæ knows either. But what's scandalous, Mr. Becic, is something that happens, unfortunately, on social networks. A colleague from SNS, a colleague, a lady, a wife, tweeted: “Do you kneel, Mara Jovičić, at SNS meetings? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” That tweet, Mr. Becic, was licked by Dragan Sutanovac. Scandal. If he paid for the SNS statement, Bata Gasic, as military minister, with his post, to pay for Dragan Sutanovac, calling for a lynch, insulting all women, licking a criminal, scandalous tweet like this? Does that mean that if a woman is a member of the SNS she's allowed to be told everything? Of course that doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41267	I thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41268	I think this way this has to be a public conviction or at least an apology from Dragan Sutanovac, if he's capable of such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41269	I've seen a lot of tweets today from the aforementioned MP who are very ugly. Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, please. You're mentioned, you're entitled to a replica. Are you going to hurt the Rules of Procedure or the replica? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41270	Thank you, Chairman. I immediately reported to Mr Babic at the beginning of the presentation, believing that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, and I will not use the right to reply, precisely because of what I want to point out, which is a violation of Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. We're due after midnight. I would ask you either to start respecting this Rules of Procedure and to introduce order in the discussion or to ask the Public Media Service, which is still transferring this, to place that mark +18 because I think the way the discussion is conducted by the SNS MPs since after midnight absolutely requires that protection measure at the Public Service because what is said here is inappropriate content for minors. So please, Chairman, either start respecting the Rules of Procedure or place that mark, if there is a minor who happens to be not sleeping at this time of night, to protect him from all that they can hear from this high house of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, as you like to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41271	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. The assembly will declare itself on Voting Day. Mr. Babico, I'm asking you not to mention the pasture anymore and not to show any pictures of any of the buildings there. Thank you. Are you satisfied now, Mr. Djurishic? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41272	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising both 107 and 108. Especially 108th because of the recent advertising of the Rules of Procedure. You take care of the row at the session. Someone here almost compared us to the program after midnight and put it in +18. It's an insult to the Assembly. Among other things, it would be your turn to punish a former MP. By the way, I'm calling 107. Why? Because Mr. Babic advertised something that's really scary. It's an official of the Assembly at the SNS Parliament Club. Someone barked, not someone, but an MP who later apologized, but also apologized to Bata Gasic and was crucified in the media. Now, I'm asking, as an MP for the SNS; the resignation of this MP because he insulted an official who works in the Assembly, because he really likes tweeting whether she kneels. Shame on him. I'm asking him to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41273	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I still can't believe something like that, that MPs are able to address the ladies in that way, that's what I said in today's debate, but seeing some other tweets of the mentioned gentleman, I'm not surprised anymore. As for what Mr. Djurisic said, I have already commented on it, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41274	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, we've been listening to all sorts of things today, that the budget is a fairy tale, but we can't expect anything else from a person who didn't show up at any session of the Labour Committee, and he's a member of that committee. It's clearly fairy tales for her. We run a very responsible business, we work very responsibly and, behold, for the sake of our citizens, if anyone still has the patience to listen to us, it's said like this. This reduction does not go on the burden of users of the rights that are in the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, but refers to the reduction of the transfer by three categories: category one, transfers that go through the Ministry to the Republic Fund of PIO – two billion, transfers for special cash compensations, as regards payments to those who have up to five years of retirement - two billion and part relating to social programmes. In this year we had 16 billion, and six billion were planned for the next year. That's the way it is. The rights of users remained at 95 billion levels and these are user rights, excluding costs relating to the work of social institutions etc. What is important to say is that there have been some redistributions within the rights of users. The programme budget has also enabled better monitoring of expenditure, and it has also been observed that the number of pensioners is about 800, and these funds will be redistributed towards family, children and social protection. So much for the socially responsible budget. So far, from 2000 to 2012, we've had phone sessions of the government, virtual life, virtual budgets, jokes, fun, promises before the 1,000-euro elections to win the elections, so no one's seen them. This government doesn't work like that. This government works transparently. That's right. I see you two agree across the street. And of those 400,000 people you left out of work, an active employment policy last year included 122,000 almost equal women and men, and after six months there were 49,759 - 24,880 women and 24,879 men. These are data and this is a socially responsible government and socially responsible budget. I can tell you that some of your members, both former and present, because they flew from one democratic party to another democratic party, they defended doctoral dissertations in hotels and restaurants, and then received directorial jobs and called competitions for teachers of internal medicine, and one of the conditions was completed by the Faculty of Agriculture. Well, isn't that enough for the Education Committee to react? If that was news, breaking news, one evening, the Committee could also deal with it, and a member of the Labour Committee could sometimes attend the meetings of the Labour Committee to see what life stories of military pensioners who were left without apartments and without compensation and without pensions. Come to our committee sessions a little more often, and the budget will be clearer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41275	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41276	Thank you. Three remarks that are partly about budget content, and in part what we've heard about the budget here. The first concerns the general atmosphere of the debate and the completely understandable desire of the government to present the budget to the best it is, that's also her task, and better than it is, by missing out on how it's done here today, unfortunately. Unfortunately for me, since it is not understood that this is not the way to talk about the budget. But there will be budgets even better than this, I hope, so we'll understand that if you seek support for the difficult jobs that any government has to do, then you can't say that it can't happen by moaning and moaning all day, because of what's left to the government as a heavy burden to solve it. It's whining. I don't want to mention that you have a good part of the government that can come up in detail to tell you that there's been a problem, because it's not done, but we definitely need a change of perspective, because if you don't think it's visible, you don't feel the problem of someone saying it – this is a great budget, it's legitimate for the government, except there's no will to be done enough, because people in Serbia are always complaining about someone else all the time, because someone else is guilty. He can't do both. Second remark. The government has chosen a strategy that wants to consolidate public finances. It's one of the possibles. The one strategy is to reduce wages and pensions and reduce public spending and is part of what has long been abandoned in EU austerity measures. It's not the only strategy. The government could do without a decision on 17 companies in restructuring, without losing a year for 90,000 workers. What decision is harder? I don't know, they're both terrible, because it's about families who fear for their daily lives. But it's a subject you can talk about. However, it can't be if it's decided to communicate – someone else is guilty and we complain about how difficult it is for us, otherwise we'd be great. The third observation concerns the positions that are represented here, interpreted, and it is perfectly legitimate to interpret one as such, the other as that, which are related to public debt and public debt. Tell me one debt you reprogramed, one. Just one. Well, then we can start to really talk about the reasons why, with knowledge and understanding of what it means when you grow public debt and how that line can't be stopped, what it means to talk to trust, talk about things, not talking to people, talk about the subject, like it's good to say that something is growing in geometric progression and it's decreasing arithmetic, that we know how to calculate geometrical and arithmetic progression. When we use it as a metaphor, it's great. But you need to be careful with metaphors. For me, for the end of this principle debate, it is indeed a great pleasure to be with the MPs from all the parliamentary groups involved in the submission of amendments concerning a completely new approach to the budget and the Law on the Budgetary System, which is to see how this money, however it comes to it, no matter how difficult it is for you and how great it would be if you weren't so hard for you, so that money is spent, to see the needs of both men and women in society, because that's how it is done in Europe, because it should be in Serbia and it would be much better for both men and women to participate in the adoption of the budget. Since we have heard the news that Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has on the new law on equality, we hope it will be. So I'm not going to ask the ministers again to open page 203, as I'm not going to beg to answer the question, it's not complicated, as it's legitimate for the minister to answer whatever he wants, it doesn't matter what anyone asks him, it's all congregations, but it's unproductive. What is productive is that MPs are really serious about the budget, that they know what the budget is about, and my recommendation for the next budget, with or without rebalance, was in this Assembly and deficits and budget surpluses, so that it's so that we can talk about the subject rather than people. The first day I hear the government stop complaining about how difficult it is for her for the fourth year, then I'm going to start believing that you really understood the rule of law and the seriousness of the work you've been running for and legitimately getting most of it. As long as we mix those two things, I don't think we'll really get to people together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41277	I thank Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41278	At your first comment, I have no comment, so I'll leave it to those who see themselves in it. I'm not complaining to anyone, and I came here with the intention of helping, not complaining. Another of your remarks about what strategy we have chosen can be answered briefly, can be answered long enough. If you look at our general government and central government budget, you'll see that last and last year 900 billion were salaries and pensions and interest rates 100 and some billion, a little less than now. Except for the material costs and the capital expenditures, there was nothing else. Only salaries and pensions were something we could go from. In the cruel world we live in, unfortunately, it's usually what we're looking for. We're looking for a victim to move forward. We consciously started with this and asked, it seems to me that it was September 20, 2014 when the prime minister went to the media and said it was a difficult decision to make, to go with a reduction in wages and pensions. In doing so, we went with a reduction in public sector payments of only 10% and a reduction in pensions of 5.8% or 6% in mass. That was at least twice, less than what the fiscal advice you often quoted today and others suggested. That's what we've been able to do with everything that's been achieved so far. We can talk about it in detail, I don't think there's any need. I think we talked today about what's been achieved. We have made savings of 700m euros less deficits and thus a lower need for borrowing and therefore less interest for borrowing. So even though interest increases, they grow because of the growth in the rate of dollars. They grow because dinar interest is still very high. Commenting on your third reprogramming note, fortunately the reprogramming term means when someone enters the situation that they can't service the debt anymore then it's reprogramming. We were talking about refinanceing existing debts under better conditions. Since there's a bunch of short-term duties, then we want to refinance, not reprogramme. The reprogramming was Paris and London Club. I'd hate to get back into that situation. We've just avoided this program that we've brought in in time, which we've brought to a situation where we've been under the quote in a place where we can control both the definition of the program and everything else. We asked the fund to support such an approach, however, the IMF supported it, it's not an easy programme, it's a difficult programme, but there was no question of debt reprogramming. So, debt reprogramming, to be clear, happens only when we're in a situation before bankruptcy and say we can't anymore, please reprogram the debts, Greece was in that situation, we don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41279	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Question only. I know, but you're aware you're not right, Mrs. Comic. (Gordana Comic, from the place: I do not insist, I was just asking if or not he can. ) On your question you should give an answer, you'll have to leave it for tomorrow. The word has a folk MP, Dr Blagoja Bradic, followed by Parliament MP Milisav Petronijevic, and as the last reported debater, Dr Blazic. You have two minutes, Mr. Braddick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41280	The respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected Nislija, as my colleagues said, Mr. Marko Djurisic and Dusan Petrovic, we will not support this budget, Mr. Vujovic, for a simple reason because the budget is not developmental. The budget is highly centralised and continues to lead Serbia into further centralisation. What you're talking about is development, I don't see it on the Nis case. In the last year, you've told the same story for the 2015 budget. The yellow bank did not come to Nis, and what will happen in 2016, we will see in the end, but from what I saw in the budget, I do not see any perspective, is that the prime minister of the government said he would help the town of Nis to organise the Serbian New Year. I don't think that's good. Further why I do not want to vote for this budget is that your ministry has failed to fulfil the legal obligation to the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health. You, Mr Vujović, are under Article 22. The Health Insurance Act, required to pay contributions to 973,000 insurance providers in the Republic of Serbia who fall under Article 22, and unfortunately I do not have time to explain that member. Instead of 11 billion you were supposed to pay for 2015 and 2016, you gave 530 million in 2015, and in 2016 you allocated 668 million, and I would translate to the citizens of Serbia, you gave by, insurance carriers from this group of Serbian citizens, 4.6 euros, instead of 57 euros. Because of all this, I think you're putting the health system and the people in the ministry at risk, no matter how well you want and no matter how hard you try without money, you can't treat the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41281	Time. Thank you. I apologize to the MPs, but the fatigue has done its part, we have three other MPs who have about five minutes each, Mr Milan Petrovic, Enis Imamovic and Vojislav Vujic. I now give the word to the People's MP, Milisav Petronievich, first I apologize to Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41282	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, after 15 hours of work, we are discussing one topic and one law, which certainly deserves such a debate, and this long-term duration, and before us is the Budget Act which we can say is an extraordinary, balanced law, where some of our hopes, demands, demands, wishes have been brought into line with the possibilities of this country, a very transparent law, a socially responsible and development budget which, in any case, has been experienced and represents some of our way and our strategy of this country and shows that Serbia has stood up on the right path, given that the results that have been achieved were surprising, even for the IMF, for the Fiscal Council, and it has surprised all of us. Serbia's success in a reform course is finally beginning to consume its real ones, and it is past the time when consumption was ahead of production and when Serbia spent more than it could produce. What we could hear in today's debate, these are criticisms that were addressed to this budget, but it's very difficult to criticise something that's good, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is extremely difficult to criticise those who have led this country to bankruptcy, because any criticism can be asked what they have done and what they have done to prevent and correct something that could have been done. I'll just look back on one topic, and that's the topic of the environment, given that there was a question here and the question of the Green Fund and whether there would be a green fund or not, and that's where I'd like to say that if there was going to be a new green fund, with new laws on environmental protection and waste and the economy that we need to bring back by the end of the year, if there was going to be a green fund as it used to be, then we'd better not form it. I'll just remind myself of how the relationship to the environment was at the time of the DS and how the Green Fund's resources and what a robbery was in that fund, and that can be reflected in all the other relations that the government had with its own people and its own country. The Green Fund then spent 25m euros on Clean Serbia action, where money was used to buy pencils, hats, lighters, various other things, T-shirts and more, and nothing was practically done in the area. Then 500,000 euros were spent on billboards and ads, 35,000 euros were given only in knowledge, a debt of 7.5 billion in the fund was left, 316 projects were paid, etc. All this shows the relationship we had with our society by the previous government and no wonder the situation in which the country was brought, but I repeat, Serbia is on the right track, Serbia will become a suitable, modern, fair and responsible country. This budget shows it, and I think it's an example of a great struggle, first of all the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic who sacrificed his health and his life in order to correct with enormous energy many of the things in which the country was in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41283	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the site: "Dragan Šutanovac" is mentioned in DS and during DS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41284	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen ministers, my distinguished colleagues, Dejan Radenkovic and Djordje Milicevic, have made clear and publicly announced the parliamentary group's position on the proposed 2016 Budget Law and the accompanying laws. I'll confirm it today. I would like to begin by saying that the 2016 budget is a continuation of the 2015 budget story, which I consider even logical, because 2015 and 2016 are also part of a single three-year fiscal consolidation programme in Serbia. Of course, given that the budget is not only figures, but also economic policy and policy, the simple answer to the question – where Serbia is going, and I want to explain from several angles why I support the bill. In addition to polemics, disputes, doubts that the 2015 budget will be fulfilled, the government has had great activity on two fronts, if I may put it so. One is the implementation of economic policy, and the other I want to talk about, I find it very important, is the return of faith to Serbia. With a clear policy, a firm defence and determined implementation, the government has managed to achieve significant results on both the external and political agenda and on the issue of European integration and, of course, the internal agenda. I'll stick to facts only. When it comes to foreign political activity, Resolution SB, where Serbia is prevented from being marked as a genocide people, UNESCO, where it is prevented that Kosovo becomes a member, a historic conference of the organisation for European security in Belgrade, and here in a few days, the opening of a chapter, we can have any position on it, but it will be recorded that in this year, the government's activities, the result. When it comes to economic policy, we end the year with a deficit, I could say in two ways. One way is with a third of the planned deficit for 2015 or another, slightly more than half of the planned deficit if the old debts that the government includes are also accounted for. It's facts and it can't be killed. What I want to point out is that this is not only done by cutting wages and pensions, although this is the biggest contribution certainly but also what I consider to be a significant and increased revenue collection, almost the same. When it comes to the reduction of wages and pensions, to remind ourselves, then by choosing between popularity and accountability, the government has chosen responsibility and simply and publicly and clearly made sure that the most vulnerable categories are not affected by that measure, which shows the government's social commitment, that its desire to pay the wages is as real as it can be, and that conditions are created, that in the next period they are provided and secure and stable and, of course, in line with the growth of the economy of the larger salary. The growth of formal employment and continuation of unemployment rates is the figure and is present in 2015, and the figures are harsh. They can't lie. There was no rebalancing. The recovery of the economy has also started in these conditions of financial consolidation, the recovery of economic activity in a healthy manner thanks to the growth of export and investment activities, if I am not mistaken, the increase of foreign direct investment to some one billion and a half billion and six million euros. All of which is why I brought just these, some of these data, some of these results from this government to actually make an introduction for 2016. Unlike last year, when we adopted the 2015 budget, we now have a situation to enter the 2016 budget with the capital significant that we have acquired this year, with citizens' confidence that we are on the right track and, of course, with significant experience. It also encourages us, it gives us a guarantee and proves to us that this budget will be implemented by the end of 2016, of course. I'll just be a short while to hold on to two questions. When it comes to revenues that are otherwise intended to be larger, I just want to give the government the task of the one who had this year and successfully implemented it, which are the increased measures to curb the grey economy, especially in the field of excise products and labour market control, the fight for greater tax collection and greater financial discipline. The government has shown in this year how much potential there are in this area and how much can be done, I ask that the government in the same way shows even more creativity in the following year. In Serbia, everyone has to pay taxes, everyone has to pay contributions, everyone has to pay taxes, because it's the only way we can have health care, have education, have new schools, new kindergartens, new health institutions, etc. That's where we have to be clear and open, so to speak. No one can avoid paying taxes, especially those who have unpaid taxes and have planes, yachts, etc. I am giving strong support to the government to continue in that direction. When it comes to expenses, I want to say very briefly. The main savings are on all elements of expenditure, but I point out the two for which I support the government, which is what I welcome. One thing is that there are no reduced social rights, and the government has once again shown its social responsibility and others that there are increased funds for capital investment, which shows that the government intends to go towards that ultimate goal, which is to strengthen economy, investment, etc. Very short only when it comes to one of the most difficult tasks that awaits us next year, it is the efficiency of the public administration. It is indisputable that this rationalisation must be and the government has very concretely predicted what measures it will take. I support it because I know it's a great cost and a great burden for both the economy and the citizens, but what I want to draw attention to and ask my government, which is that we simply don't create an climate that public administration is some kind of cost to this country, which maltenes don't do anything. That's not true. These are important institutions, these are important institutions and we need both efficient and strong and professional and effective public administration and that we need to keep this in mind when we go to the rationalisation process. Let's start with what this country does, what it does, what citizens need to do, and move on. So, all of these measures provide such an approach. I know it's hard, I know it's a lot of work, but it's got to be done in the next year, too, and that bill on pay grade. It is very important because it provides justice that does not now exist between various areas in Serbia, which is important to us. After all, education and health care are not in a favourable position when it comes to salaries in the state, but at the same time, it is a chance for them to be, as I say, in a better position to level it, without saying that I should take it into the option and amend the Law on wages in the state bodies from which everyone has escaped. Today they have some, even say nine hundred is the coefficient, some say sixth, but mostly hundreds, different bases, etc. Today, we have a Serbian prime minister who may be in 300 places, I'm only talking about budget users, I'm not talking about outside of it, and there's gotta be order in the office. What I also want to say in the end, and this is one direction that the government is very clearly offering, the fiscal policy measures and public sector reform and the reform of the economic environment and the completion of restructuring and the improvement of public business work are not the goal. It's a means, it's a way, it's a way to get to the main goal of creating a basis for an improved economic environment, to create a basis for increasing investment and domestic and foreign equal and I strongly support it just so means new employment. This alone means creating a basis for stable sustainable growth in the coming years. It's the only way to reach the ultimate goal, and that's a better life and a better standard of living for citizens. After all, that leads to a bigger GDP. If GDP is higher, the percentage of public debt participation is lower. We do not have a high percentage of public debt participation just because of the high costs, but also because our GDP is low. In the end, I want to strongly support this very message bearing this budget, which is to strengthen the economy destroyed by robbery privatisation and the wrong economic system that has been set up. Only in this way, by creating new values, therefore, by strengthening those who make money, can Serbia create conditions for sustainable development, for a better life for citizens. In that sense, I am giving full support to the bill and these messages and directions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41285	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41286	I am asking the President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the framework of the 2016 Budget Law, whether the reduction of subsidies in agriculture will affect the stimulation of domestic milk and livestock production or create the opposite effect by strengthening the import lobby of meat and milk, which would result in the collapse of half-forsaken villages in Serbia anyway? Railway subsidies have increased more than in the economy. We are expressing hope that this increase will focus on revitalising railway infrastructure, providing unsecured railway crossings and rail signalling. The question is again - which perception led the promoter to reduce the subsidies for agriculture, the surgically precise half of the subsidies for culture, and so on. the other subsidies increase? What is contained under other subsidies? Some of the significant shortcomings in our budget are incomplete transparency and accounting for expenditure of public enterprises, the lack of a single register of public sector employees. Within the framework of the "Belgrade on Water" project, the Serbian People's Party insists that the architecture of the complex respects the construction tradition of Belgrade's inherited urban tissue. The built environment is the framework of our present and, more importantly, our future, and in the proposed form of the project, we believe that it violates the city's spatial force. It is incomprehensible that for the business building of the "Belgrade on Water" complex, the task of Luka Celovic is selected, as one of the symbols of the European Serbia's uplift at the time, and that the solutions offered for complex facilities are not followed in any detail by the surrounding urban structure and this representative facility. We also have an objection in Article 15b, where we feel that the word “International ” should be deleted. The definition of "International" directly points to the application of the regulations of Middle Eastern countries, since it is generally known that the investor of the project from the region, and by applying regulations from this area, is giving up the European regulations and standards in the building, which violates the future functional use of the facility, i.e. the issue of insurance of non-European buildings, the issue of climate impacts on built-in materials and the stability of the facility itself. The Serbian People's Party believes the draft law amends and complements the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development needs to be amended further. Article 7 of this proposal mentions subsidies of up to 6 000 per hectare. We haven't found an example anywhere in the world to encourage the subject, I'm a product. In any case, low subsidies to six thousand dinars per hectare could be reduced to two, three thousand per hectare, as the total subsidy budget will be divided by the number of hectares. We ask the question – did all farmers receive this year's subsidies? It is not the same to produce a hectare of raspberries or a hectare of wheat with the same amount of subsidies. We must encourage our farmers to produce as much product as possible, as much quality as possible, and thus producers will also try to produce as much goods as possible. In order to do so, we need to introduce a category of agricultural products that are subsidized, and then we need to do a reonization of agricultural production, or define the areas in Serbia that are dominated by certain agricultural cultures, and only then, on that basis, carry out a subsidy based on the potential and quantity of exports of a particular product. That's what the SNP thinks this bill should contain. Also, this law should prevent the abuse of people who do not deal with agriculture, but what do they do? They register agricultural holdings, then bid the country, take subsidies per hectare, and eventually issue a country that was auctioned off. Also, we note that our farmers need credit support in the purchase of machinery and equipment and this should be incorporated into this bill. I stress that there are three areas that make up the strength of a country. These are: energy, NIS, which we sold, and the question is what will happen to the EPS, information, "Telek", which is waiting for sale, what SNP is strongly opposed, and food. Only agriculture remained as the only industry sector where we still have full economic sovereignty and therefore we believe that there must be a serious agricultural strategy and a stronger agreement with agricultural producers. We believe that the purpose of the amendment law and the supplementation of the Excise Act is to increase the burdens to fill the budget. Also, this legislative proposal, in case it is accepted, can negatively affect consumer purchasing power, resulting in a reduction in profits for producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41287	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41288	A short time to explain, just to finish, please. I will propose other objections under the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41289	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41290	Thank you. Dear People's MP, today I have repeatedly explained the allegations of individual MPs that the budget for agriculture has been reduced, but as my colleagues have repeatedly repeated, here, and I will now repeat. So in 2016, the agricultural budget, which is defined by farmers, is almost the same as in 2015. What you mention and what creates confusion is that in last year, the government allocated additional funds to last year's agrarian budget, as it does this year, so it wants all those who applied for incentives to the funds to be practically and defined, or to pay them into their accounts. In doing so, these are not the funds that were within the foreseen agrarian budget. That's how it's been so far. But now we have to establish a real system that will mean predictability, which means we can't spend what we don't have anymore. We're wasting what we have. So, in the following year, we felt that it was most just that those incentives related to plant production were relatively divided to our farmers according to the submitted requirements, i.e. by hectares. Why? Because some of our farmers took advantage of the possibility this year, so our last year's reduction from 100 to 20 acres in some way abused, divided the landowners, registered the landowners to family members, narrow and wider families, etc., so that we had to react in this way. We could have changed nothing differently without paying subsidies in plant production to the level of funds, as we could this year. So those who apply before, they'd get it. The others wouldn't get it. We felt that it was not realistic and that it was not fair and that it was not fair and that we are acting really extremely responsible here, socially responsible, and we want all our farmers who apply, to get proportionately available means, so that none of them are running, that none of them are taking order or bus to get what's coming to them. Why when it comes to plant production? Because of what I'm saying - they're dividing the land, they're putting us in a position never to know what we're going to have next year, the most resources are going to that extent. So about 20 billion last year, 20 billion this year. As for livestock subsidies and other measures, those credit support, support for the purchase of milk sector equipment, for the processing of meat, for the raising of new plantations, all of this remains the same. Practically, we couldn't control this measure before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41291	Thank you. The word has the MP Enis Imamovic, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41292	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is not grateful to be one of the last speakers in such small hours, but I will look back at this draft budget from the aspect of the minority SDA Sandzak-PDD group, which consists of legitimate representatives of the Albanian Presevo Valley and Bosniak Sandzak. As the people most concerned with the issue of national minorities, we believe that the funds that are for national minorities in this budget are separated by being separated through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, through the Office for Human and Minority Rights and through the budget fund for minorities, that they are one word humiliating. In a country where 21 national communities, which accounts for more than 20% of the population or one quarter of the country's population, are isolated, as I said, embarrassing and humiliating funds. The minority plan totals 261.8m dinars, which translates into 0.025% for one quarter of the population. So 0.025%. In the minority budget, the amount of 1.8 million dinars is allocated. With these 1.8 million dinars, the issue of culture, information, education, use of native language and letters cannot be organised in any local community, let alone in the territory of the entire state, for one quarter of the population. Let me remind you, because I don't know if you're aware of the fact that even members of national minorities pay equal taxes to this country, like all citizens. According to this analogy, members of national minorities should pay 0.025% of the tax. Another absurd is that these funds, which are allocated to national minorities and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Office for Human and Minority Rights, are classified under the name of grant to NGOs. I would also like to remind you that the Bosniak National Council, as well as other national councils, has been elected in democratic elections, the same way we choose MPs in this assembly. Therefore, putting the order of NGOs is a humiliation for these bodies and humiliation for citizens who went out to these elections to elect these legitimate representatives in national councils. I think it is necessary that under urgent change of names in divisions and appraisals and that national councils be called the right name - the bodies of the minority self-government, not as you in this budget tried to place them in the order of NGOs. It is a great honor for many NGOs, but here we are still talking about the authorities elected in the free democratic elections and who bear the legitimacy of citizens won in these elections. We ask for 21 larger allocations in the Republic of Serbia's budget to the extent that the funds are allocated to these four areas that do not cover one quarter of the population. We also propose that the budget for minorities and under economic classification 481 – grants for non-governmental organisations of 261.8 million dinars are actually allocated to NGOs. NGOs are particularly important today and deserve a special place, especially in our poor and highly centralised country in which NGOs fill that big gap in the relationship between citizens and the state, i.e. state authorities and institutions. One of the most important things we are also asking for to be included in this 2016 budget is the programme this government adopted. It is a programme for the sustainable return of exiled Bosniaks from the Municipality of Priboj, which was adopted, as I said in 2012, and the programme envisioned the following activities: the construction of a road network of 72km long, construction and reconstruction of destroyed residential and auxiliary facilities, trafo-stations and power grids, the construction of a water supply network and the creation of conditions for the sustainable survival of returnees. By 2014, the government had allocated slightly more than 113 million dinars, amounting to 10% of the total projected funds, which means the government was only 10% serious when it adopted the programme. I have asked a parliamentary question about this programme and I have not yet received an answer with significant information for this discussion and for the amendments we have written for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41293	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41294	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out that the budgets of national councils cannot in any way affect the way and extent of education in the languages of national minorities. The budget for the functioning of primary and secondary schools sets aside funds for education in any language in which there is teaching, in the languages of national minorities, as well as for teaching in Serbian. In fact, there is not even a legal basis to finance the work of the department, i.e. teaching in minority languages in the budget that is not intended for the work of primary and secondary schools in the Republic budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41295	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41296	I would like to underline and extend the implications of what my colleague Verbic said. It is indeed one substitute to say that the funds that are obtained for the exercise of the rights of national minorities are in the area of the exercise of the right to language, cultural, educational, information autonomy and it comes down to what can be seen in the budget as resources allocated to national councils. That's not true in any way. In any case, under number 1, the funds allocated this year to the national councils of national minorities remained unchanged compared to the previous year, including the fund, mentioned at the beginning of the discussion and now, in terms of fiscal consolidation when many other budgets were cut. Certainly, the Government expresses its commitment to improving the practice of continuing to exercise the right and invigorating the institutions of the national councils of the national minorities, but even if they are not there, the policies of the Government are being achieved through resolute policies in these areas and largely meet the needs of national minorities to achieve autonomy. National advice is that these rights are better protected and improved and there is a good space for national councils to make better use of these resources at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41297	Thank you. (Enis Imamovic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Imamovic, it really doesn't make sense at this time to give you the right to a replica. You only got answers to the questions you asked. (Enis Imamovic, from the place: What is this way? It's a misread discussion. I have the right to answer. You know very well that you have no right, but I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41298	I know very well that I have the right to answer the wrongly interpreted discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41299	That's an estimate of the president or the chairman, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41300	Whether it makes sense in half two or no sense, I don't think it's yours to judge. It makes sense that you give me the right to use my right to the Rules of Procedure. My questions are for the Minister of Education. If the Ministry of Education covers all these textbooks and all the needs of minorities involved in education, why do Bosniaks and Albanians still not have textbooks in their native language... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41301	I really won't let you, Mr. Imamovic, at this time, violate the Rules of Procedure in this way. (Enis Imamovic, from the place: What way? ) Such a way that you have no right to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure interprets the Chairman. You're not in a negative context and you have no right to speak. You're not talking about the budget. You're talking about textbooks. (Ennis Imamovic, from the post: This is the budget. That goes into the budget. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41302	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and all of you patient citizens of the Republic of Serbia who followed this marathon session, good evening. I want to use the beginning of my discussion to congratulate Mrs Bogosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture. However, with a little delay because the glory was yesterday. By the way, I want to tell you that today has already started on December 10th, it's an international day of human rights... Please don't throw it away. There's really no reason. I'm trying to end up in one correct spirit, no arguments or provocations that you've been doing here all day without need. You interrupted me on that important part to say that today is an international day of human rights tolerance and that is why I call you to be mutually tolerated. Today, in one part of this session, we had concrete talks, excellent ministers' answers, above all, the finance minister who defended today, in addition to everyone else, this law. This budget law is in fact a continuation, ministers, of the 2015 budget law, where there was a structural and permanent deficit reduction. And in these late hours I don't want to talk about all those numbers that we mentioned today, because I think it's hard to find something that my colleagues didn't mention today, and you didn't give the correct answers to that. I want to take this opportunity, again, of course, regarding the budget, to address all the ministers, and also two short questions. I'm going to ask you to be brief, and that's, above all, Minister Loncar, Minister of Health. For six years, Vranjska Banja has been waiting for the dialysis department and every time it is said - it is not planned in the republican budget. In July of this year, you promised us that Vranjska Banja would finally win and that the funds for that dialysis department would be identified, so I'm asking you to just tell me if it was finally after six years, with your promise that it was on the agenda. I also want to thank Minister Vujovic again, because he recognized, and the entire government, of course, headed by the prime minister, because you recognized the importance of tourism in Serbia and as one of the items you have increased in this budget, that is also the item relating to tourism. You've increased it by 500 million dinars. I believe that Vranjska Banja, as one of the most visible tourist resorts, will certainly get one piece of that money. What I want to suggest and draw attention to, and that's what you were talking about today, first of all, when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, that this year, it will be a little bit more concrete to share the funds that are intended to subsidise and encourage agricultural work, and therefore I think that agriculture and economy, as bearers and engine of every society, can, after all, show a serious factor in filling the budget as well. The president of the United Serbia's Parliamentary Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, today, said as authorised that the Single Serbia Group would support this budget. I repeat again – we will support it because this budget makes sense. You showed in 2015 that if we organize properly, we can make some improvements. This will probably be done according to all expectations, since the Fiscal Council will also commend the maximum, i.e. He minimally criticised, and in their sense this already counts as commendable, having one quality budget in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41303	Thank you. Since more than 30 MPs have given up the debate, I thank them for that. Since there are no more reports on the lists of parliamentary groups... Mr. Lonchar, you wanted to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41304	Just to let you know that we have already entered the preparation of the realization and that we expect it to be realised in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41305	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. You have four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41306	Four minutes and 43 seconds. With this draft budget, at the end of this day, we can conclude that the government has moved from the belting strategy to the strategy of tightening the noose to the citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, what's even more tragic is that we've been listening all day to the presidents of the government who have been through the system – my lips praise me. Unfortunately, they are not such good results and what I can tell you is that you have not convinced us that this budget will in no way improve the situation of either the economy or the economy, or in any other segment of our society, and what is most regrettable, is what we heard in the exposé, one of its exposés, the prime minister, it is that the burden will fall precisely on citizens through an increase in excise duties that will be enormously largely affected and such crumbling budgets of Serbian citizens. The Minister of Agriculture assures us that it is less good for agriculture, according to the documents we received in the subsidy budget, for agriculture is less than this year, and at the same time you forget that the fuel is expensive for all farmers. You forget that 1.5% will be inflation, so farmers will be damaged and it's not just in your case. He's also in health care. Mr. Lonchar, you're trying to avoid anything concerning the RFO, he's going to get a grant from the budget for up to five billion dinars. Let 25% of nonmedical staff in hospitals, this is a treatment thing, so it's not just a doctor. What medications are they going to treat? I know there's been savings this year, too, and I know that in this year, hospitals are said to spend 50% less medicine. I'll tell you that later if you want, it's no problem. So, this thing won't go as planned, we warn you that the budget is unrealistic, that poor projections and revenue, and cost projections are such that here, Mrs. Udovici, the mayor of one of the largest cities in Serbia, the high-ranking SNS, the honorable man, the doctor, Zoran Perisic says – if this draft passes in the Serbian Parliament, it will lead to a reduction in income in the city register by 40%. He says -- no local self-government in Serbia will stand for it. The man's not from the DS, I'm telling you. He mustered up his courage, though he casts himself will be replaced to say what will be a problem for Nis. It's the same for all the other cities. So, for us, the problem is to accept that there will be a reduction in income based on the profits made by the company. Mr. Vujovicu, if companies earn less profit, if you convince us that it is good to have a smaller net VAT which our prime minister would say, who has obviously recently learned, how do you think, with minimal wage increases, how do you think it will be generated energy and what it will be produced more to export. You didn't answer me, what it is that we're going to import more to have more customs and more VAT revenue from abroad. I ask very explicitly – what do you expect to import? A colleague who is the European Integration Minister just spoke about how much debt was inherited. Do you know that the depth was 15 billion, that today is over 25? A colleague of Vujovic could tell us what the Eurobor was like when those duties were made in 2010, 2009, 2011, or in 2008, and what is it today? Is it true that now it's about 0.1.0.2, and then it was 3, 4 even 5? So, unfortunately, we tried to be constructive today, we also experienced insults and insults...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41307	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Time's up. You said four minutes and 43 seconds. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41308	I would say that at the end of this debate, we are in the budget principle for 2016, and I think the government has made it very serious and reasoned, which is why this is the development budget, which is why this budget will be significantly better than, let me say, the previous one. We will have room to achieve both growth and not just growth, but we expect greater revenues from public enterprises. I don't know where people's gonna get less income from public enterprises. In addition, let's remind ourselves, when we had companies like JAT and ER Serbia, so when you compare how JAT did business for ten years and how Serbia operates today. When you compare how many public enterprises participate in off-the-boards, in one-time budget payments and everything they give. Then you see a much more serious discipline is being introduced than it has ever been. We have reason to believe that, in addition to the GDP growth that we expect to be much larger than this year, twice this year, we have reason to believe that this will, of course, allow the IMF agreement to mark the possibility of further working towards increasing citizens' income and salaries and pensions. Of course, according to the possibilities of the earth. What's good, we've shown that they're not reduced in any way to social benefits or subsidies in agriculture, nor will medical personnel be fired, and we're going to try to make sure that people in the security sector have reasons to be better equipped, have reasons to be satisfied with new uniforms and vehicles, but also to increase working conditions. What's good, too, while we're on the subject, we've touched partly today, but I'd like to say for the sake of the people of the SDPR, this was certainly one of the most successful years in the history of this company. Gross profit is at the level of two billion dinars, a $400m deal. What's good is getting out of real work, not based on the collection of old debts with discounts that were once in the past, even 70%. Seventy million bullets were sold by the First Partizan for next year. The dedicated factory filled out the entire production and that is why we are looking forward to building new factories. That Big Plan factory, which I had a chance to see, is really one of the most modern factories. A new shooting ammunition factory in Uzic and all that is most important from its own resources and that is very important. So it worked with all the fields. People work full-time thanks to the prime minister and the efforts of the entire government. I think Serbian citizens have something to look forward to in the coming years and this linear growth that we can expect GDP. We can expect a better fiscal picture of our country, all on sound grounds and therefore congratulate all the people of the Ministry of Finance who helped all of us from other ministries to make the budget in such a good way. I know it wasn't easy, but I think we've all managed to show that the government's serious and responsible policy, led by Alexander Vukic, can make savings, but to build a basis for real growth. Thank you for your patience and for this long discussion, at least as far as I've seen today, there was indeed a good, good, reasoned debate and we'll have a chance to talk about the amendments, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41309	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41310	Thank you. In fact, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explain this about the public debt that we talked about from 2008 to 2012. So, since 2008. 8.8 billion, rose in 2012 to 17.7 billion. Yeah, they're absolutely official numbers. So, since 2008, an intense growth has been recorded, to call it, an indirect public debt created by guarantees for borrowing public enterprises to resuscitate the banking sector. So, during that period, debt was at very unfavourable and high interest rates, which, of course, increases interest interest interest in public debt. Now that's about 3% of GDP is about a billion. So that's about 3%, so let those who might know better than me correct me. So, basically, what was going on? The high budget deficit was covered in debt. So, the high budget deficit is covered by government debt, and you've avoided at that time or government, and I'm not going to apostrophe you, then the government has avoided taking reform measures of fiscal consolidation that might be more painless both for the state and for the citizens at that point. Even in that period, if you remember from 2006 to 2008, when the current global economic crisis was indeed the then government refused to admit that the economy was in recession and that the negative impact of the global economic crisis existed in the first place on our economy, which has seriously disrupted the perception of the investment climate. Not to mention the legal framework for public debt has been breached. So that trend had to be stopped. I think the previous government missed the opportunity, and I think 2006 to 2008 was the right time for structural reforms. Now maybe it's more painful, maybe we're paying the price of a more responsible policy, but in any case, after last year and the catastrophic floods and the poor state of public finances, we've turned that trend around. The arrangement with the IMF confirmed it, and I believe that in the following year, we will manage to realise the numbers and projected and eventually consolidate public finances, which is sometimes much more important than the money itself, to establish the system, especially when it is broken down and the most difficult task is destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41311	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41312	I'm glad that at the end of the debate, we all came to the conclusion that social contributions are not diminished by any single dinar and that 95 billion were and that 95 billion are now. We are a socially responsible government and certainly a government that pays back the debts that those before us have made. Accordingly, we pay back our debt to the military pensioners, we pay back our debt to the agricultural pensioners. What's for sure, this government won't leave anyone behind their debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41313	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41314	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will answer one question. Now the expenditures are 4% of GDP, and I'm surprised that my colleague from the DS is going out to tell him that he is no longer making those mistakes, which is that since 2008 the European Central Bank has not changed interest rates. Since the start of the global crisis was about 3.5%, it has been reduced to 0.25% to create a climate for banks to invest more in the economy and today it is so much. So there's no further justification for this high-level borrowing. I'm surprised he didn't touch any foreign reserves since last year he was complaining about someone selling out the National Bank of Serbia's foreign exchange reserves, and at the end of 2015 the relationship between sold and purchased foreign exchanges on the market was about 700m euros in favour of our foreign reserves. If he had stayed, he could have learned that 2.5 billion euros in public debt in 2012 were hidden from his government through unsettled commitments to farmers and a very corrupt one, I can say the poor methodology of showing public debt. If he had stayed, he would have learned that he had increased the public debt by a billion euros due to Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Banks, which had spent state money and even financed their uncharging claims from state securities. If he had stayed he would have known that today this government is paying back the JAT debt made by the DS government, the government of Boris Tadic of 200m euros and would know that today the government is paying back its debts to military pensioners of 200m euros. If he had stayed, he would have known that your exports increased when your balance of payments was almost zero, and earlier years it was down. Especially in 2008, for 6 billion and 300m euros, and in 2011 for 3 billion and 600m euros. If he had stayed, he would have known that if the budget were less allocated to health insurance funds and pension and disability insurance, and the total amount of funds remained the same, to increase the number of employees and profits in the public sector. You know, the bookkeeping bill must always give you zero in the end. (Blagoje Bradic, from the place: And the budget and the fund differ like the sky and the earth. ) There is no difference between the budget and the fund like the sky and the country, but the funds are financed by two basics. One of the basics is the contribution payments for earnings, and the other is from the budget. With that you finance health care, and with that you finance pensions. If you pay less from the budget, it means you have more employees and more salaries. If someone had stayed here, you'd know that we had record gross product declines in the period 2009, 2010 and 2012. If he had stayed here, he would have known that we were in debt at very high interest rates, because the International Monetary Fund escaped from Serbia in February 2012, and then we raised those famous loans at 7.5%, i.e. the government of Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic, the Democratic Party. Then a man comes out and says, "Why is there a lower value added tax in the country?" The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds is, precisely because of such ignorant MPs, starting a week ago with the work of the Office for Budget, funded by the Ministry's Foundation, just to train MPs to read the budget, to find items in it, to know what the budget means, so that Mr. Minister won't have to organise their seminars, they have everything here for free. Well, I hope next year when we discuss the budget that we have much better deputies, who will know what a payment deficit is, who will know what a public debt is, MPs who will know how to finance health care funds and pension and disability insurance, who will know how the government of the Republic of Serbia works. Because we were witnesses, at least me, and there are MPs here who were still in this room, which is that when the government adopted the budget, it wasn't based on the principle of unity, but every political party in line with its wishes, each president of the political party, in accordance with his programme and his interests, was blackmailing the National Assembly to deliver to them the amount required...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41315	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41316	I'm done, colleague Becic. ... Because if it doesn't, it will leave the government. Well, then why didn't you call the election? We'd probably be replaced by roles.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41317	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Before I give my word to Mr Radenkovic, the line has the right of MP Marko Djurisic to mention the party's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41318	Thank you, Chairman. It is unusual to talk about JAT and JAT's debt, not about the way the JAT's or Er Serbia's successor works. (Veloljub Arsic, from town: It works perfectly. It works great, here's how it works. The government's decision of 11 December 2014 unearthed Er Serbia's debt to the 17,609,572,54, under an agreement that says the Serbian government will subsidise Er Serbia in 2014. This is in response to Minister Sertic, who sent him in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on 18 February this year. So, so much for winning a three million-million-dollar Air Serbia or whatever. So this is only Er Serbia's debt for nine months last year to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which took over citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the budget, because the budget is neither prime minister nor government, but Serbian citizens, because they are filling that budget with their publications. So we can talk about it, and we can also talk about how the IMF mission left in February 2012, at the beginning of its second programme. A three-year program, the same as we have with the IMF today, was successfully completed. For what it went for, ask those you made a government with in July.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41319	Time. I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41320	This is a very interesting topic. Of course, because of the MPs and the citizens, we have to say one important thing. JAT made losses of around 35m euros annually. Most unfortunately, he was making up for damages to the "Nikola Tesla" airport because he did not pay the invoiced commitments, and then the government, or the citizens of Serbia from the budget, was taken from their pockets, from schools, from hospitals, from social assistance, from small pensions and from those who lost their jobs from 2008 to 2012, so they couldn't look at children when they needed to buy them shoes or school equipment or anything like that. So 35m euros went to JAT every year. In ten years, it's 350m euros. You know, when something good is done, something that starts to make plus, something that starts to make and something that's good, not only starts to make good, but it increases thanks to the good work of JAT, that is, Er Serbia, it increases passenger traffic to almost five million passengers a year, so our airport price goes up, so you get a direct flight to the United States. This shows many good things for the country, plus that Er Serbia, which is mostly state-owned, will continue to pay its country something. Then of course it's no good for some people, and it's never gonna be good. But that doesn't matter, what's important is that this country, no matter what, we love and people who criticize and should criticise, it's their job, we like to show that we have the strength to fight to keep this country moving forward. We have the strength to fight and that those companies that have been losers for years, years and years, that we do not find it difficult to make them successful businesses, successful stories that mean something to workers of these companies, but also to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41321	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Dejan Radenkovic. Mr. Radenkovic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41322	Thank you, Vice President. I will use this time that I have left just to remind the MPs here who are sitting, and the citizens of Serbia, and I will take the opportunity to thank all the ministers who have stayed here until the end to listen to all the MPs, all the criticism and praises at the expense of the budget, although the criticism was not well-intentioned. We had a situation in the past that there were prime ministers who never came to the Assembly. We today have a situation where the prime minister is at the head of the entire government today in the Assembly when the budget is considered, which is the most important law for each government and that is for every praise and that is to be said. That should be even the opposition to rise up and say and praise, not to criticize lies and attacks and baseless criticisms something that simply we, like this government, and like this majority, tend to simply introduce the country into a process of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. We're going well, the indicators are positive, and I think we're going to continue along a good path, because it's of general interest. It's the easiest thing to criticise without any arguments. The easiest thing to do is to make plays and plays here and that citizens should think that's not the case. So, the data is real, they say the budget is detailed and transparent, that budget planning is based on real rather than, as before, on good wishes and optimistic assumptions. That's it, we're here and we're moving on. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41323	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. In the end, the word has been made by Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41324	Thank you very much. Here, time's already gone, five or six minutes after two o'clock in the morning. We started this morning at eight, that would be 18 hours total. Marathon. We've heard a lot of comments. I expect that we will hear more concrete remarks and suggestions on how to improve this budget when the time comes for amendments. The amendments are already attached, analysed, will be in the government tomorrow to approve them and return them to consideration. I expect that we will be able to use the amendments not only for the budget but for all the laws that go parallel to this budget in this united debate. What concerns me isn't the criticism of individual things, but I'm worried that I don't see an alternative for them. That's what worries me most of all. So if the message that this budget is bad, that Serbian citizens will live worse, then I must say, I absolutely disagree. This is hard, this is the way out, but it certainly isn't worse, because growth of 1.75% will give everyone the opportunity to get better. And most importantly, this offers us a path to sustainable growth and development in the future. Many concrete remarks were often neither factually correct nor meaningful in the discussion of the budget, the direction of reform and the direction of everything that was going on. I don't know what time the completely wrong figures were repeated on one income item, which they found, which is a corporate income tax. It is estimated at 57 billion this year, based on 10 months of results and two months of estimates. Next year, we're planning a slight increase. If we wanted to paint a colorful lie, paint a pink future, then we wouldn't have put these figures in the budget, then we wouldn't have put the increase in getting just 1.3 billion. But that's what our estimates say and we put on those estimates that we get. No one puts pressure on the macro-sector that does these estimates, or on the IMF that does independent evaluations and deals with ours, we put what we get. Also, the 15 billion VAT increase would be much larger, the VAT increase to imports is 23 billion. But we estimate that VAT net, domestic VAT, will be less next year than this year from 96 to 87.7 billion, because we expect export resuscitation, because we expect a larger VAT refund. That's a good sign. The fall of this VAT is a good sign. It is a sign that exports will take on one of the leading roles, as a source of economic growth, in the coming year. From somewhere, this 1.75% has to come. In 2017, we expect that consumption of the population will be a factor of growth. In the following year, we expect it to be net exports and that's visible from these figures. Therefore, I wish we had heard the arguments about why something was wrong and how it could be better consistently. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that. Worst of all, it's telling citizens it's gonna get worse. It won't get any worse, it'll get better. It's definitely going to be better, and we're going to get results that will be better than what we're designing, and we're designing conservatively because we want to have copper, that we have a reserve on the side of the realisation. We're certainly going to have a smaller deficit of 121 billion that's planned for this budget, we're going to have better performance on the side of the income, which we can't put on because we don't have 12 months of results at that higher level, and we're sure to have them in 12 months. We are designing expenditures that include the costs of transition, which include severances and all the other costs we anticipate. You've heard it before, I don't know how many times, and the last time Mr. Vulin, who says we haven't cut 95 billion, the figure is the same. What people will get is the same. We haven't reduced the subsidies in agriculture by 28 billion, if you don't want to count that 0.15%, the minimum reduction, that's the calculation. So I accept all the criticism, when they have meaning, when they warn us of risks, when they point us to something better and more feasible, but when they're just the result, it seems to me, the desire to be criticised, without the intention of offering an alternative, then I have to say that for now we're staying at these numbers, and we're going to see about the amendments what we can adopt and how to include in the budget. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience and your effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-09-0.u41325	I thank Mr Dusan Vujovic. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government for participating in today's session and for making a major contribution to the quality of the debate important to the citizens of Serbia. I thank the Members of the People. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 12 of the agenda. Notice to the People's Messengers. The continuation of this session is today at 3 p.m. in an amendment debate, and today at 11.00 p.m. we have a special session at which Commissioner Johannes Han will address the MPs in the National Assembly. So, once again, at 11.00 a.m., there is a special session, where Commissioner Johannes Han will address, and today at 15.00 a.m. is a continuation of the amendments to this session.
