ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24903	Dear Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to welcome you in front of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the highest judicial body whose proposal you have here today when it comes to candidates who are proposed for a choice of office, which would be the first choice, and therefore we are also discussing it in the Republic Parliament. As the President of the Assembly said, I am Miroljub Tomic, VSS Vice President and today I am here to present to you, but also to the citizens of Serbia who, hopefully, are following this assembly transfer and to explain the VSS proposal concerning candidates whose names, and the names of the courts are listed in the proposal that lies before you. On the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Court of Justice announced on July 25, 2014 the choice of judges for the Court of Justice in Nis to fill 10 vacancys, for the Court of Justice in Novi Sad in order to fill eight vacancys, and announced a choice for the Court of First Instance in Sjenica in order to fill two vacancys. The High Judicial Council, as you know, proposed two candidates for the basic court in Sjenica at a session held on 9 December 2014. He addressed the motion for a decision to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As one candidate, meanwhile, gave up the election, it was the High Judicial Council at a session held on 20 February 2015 that proposed another candidate, whose name you have in the material. In the process of proposing candidates for the election of judges, the High Council of the judiciary is based on Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS have made a decision on the education of the Commission for the selection of judges, whose task was to carry out the examination of the applications submitted for advertising, to establish their completeness and well-being, to hold talks with candidates who applied for the choice for judges and to assess whether the candidates meet the criteria and criteria for the selection. It is the fact that this contest has been applied for, and this is for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad 257 candidates, for the Court of First Instance in Nis 175 candidates, and 17 candidates have applied for the Court of Justice in Sjenica. The Commission held talks with candidates who applied for the New Sad basic court with a total of 252 candidates, with candidates who applied for the Niš General Court with a total of 163 candidates, for the basic court in Sjenica with a total of 12 candidates. You can see that only for this election, that is, for these candidates whom we have proposed today for this session of the Assembly, we have held talks with over 400 candidates that would have been the first choice. We think it is important that, in addition to all the other parameters, criteria, criteria, work results and everything else, which I will later indicate, it is important, in addition to what the Judges Act prescribes, to do and talk to candidates, to hear in one direct contact with the candidates themselves all about their work so far, we hear about what they expect from this significant function, judicial functions, and to look at the overall and their results and everything else we propose to the Assembly of certain candidates. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary held on 20 February 2015, established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 18 candidates by proposing Dujakovic Darka, a judicial assistant at the Basic Court in Nis to elect a judge for the basic court in Nis. I'll only tell the shortest about all the candidates. So, I don't want to say complete biography, with what is available for all MPs who have certain questions about any candidate, of course we'll say even more specifically. Dujakovic Darko was born in 1978. He graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Nis in 2005 with a general success of 7.94, after which he founded a working relationship at the District Court in Nis. The judicial exam was passed in 2008. He then concluded a work contract at a certain time at the Municipality Court in Nis, and has been performing the affairs of a judicial associate at the Main Court in Nis since early 2010. For the results of the work achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was assessed by the highest estimate – particularly the one that stands out. He is part of a large number of seminars, mostly from the area of criminal law. He speaks English, and according to the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Justice in Nis and the meetings of all the Judges of the Higher Court in Nis, he fulfils all the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and Provisions on the setting of criteria for the assessment of professionalism, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and president of courts. The High Council of the Judiciary was particularly aware that, when a session of all the judges of the General Court was held in Nis, Dujaković Darko was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received, and in the opinion of the session of all the Judges of the Higher Court in Nis, the third on the list according to the number of votes received. Mijalović Julia, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Nis, was further proposed, which was born in 1982. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Nis with a general score of 9.32. She started working at the county court in Nis. The judicial exam was passed in 2009, with a special mark. The call of a senior judicial associate was received in 2012. For the results achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 it is assessed by the highest estimate – particularly the one that stands out. In particular, we had in mind when proposing this candidate that when the session of all the Supreme Court judges in Nis was held, this candidate was the first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Radivojević Ana is also proposed and is a judicial assistant at the Niš basic court. Anna was born in 1980. Law school ended in 2005 with a general success of 9.13. After college, she founded a working relationship at the municipality court in Nis on the work of trainees. The results of the work achieved in 2012 and 2013 were assessed by the evaluation – in particular, it stands out. Doctoral law studies at the Faculty of Law in Nis enrolled in school 2007 in 2008. It's used in English. The High Council of the Judiciary particularly noted for this candidate that, when a session of all judges of the Basic Court in Nis was held, the candidate Radivojevic Ana was first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Savic Cvetanovic Tamara has also been proposed and is a judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Nis. Studies at Law School ended in 2007 with a general success of 9.55. After graduation, she volunteered as a judicial intern at the District Court in Nis, and passed the judicial exam in 2009 with a general success and a medal. For the results achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was assessed by the highest estimate – particularly the one that stands out. In addition to the work of the judicial assistant, the work of the court's spokesman is an active participant in the creation of the Veterans of the Supreme Court in Nis, as an independent contractor of the more published sentients in the area of criminal law, and has actively participated in the development of projects that the Supreme Court in Nis in 2011 and 2012 achieved significant financial resources from the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. According to the opinion of the session of all Judges of the Supreme Court in Nis, it meets all the conditions prescribed by the Law on Judges, otherwise it is second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Stankovic Jelena is the fifth to be proposed as a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis and is also proposed to elect a judge at the Court of First Instance in Nis. The basic studies at the Faculty of Law ended in 2006 with a general success of 7.65, followed by a working relationship in the District Court. The judicial exam was passed in 2008. Starting on 8 March 2010, she founded a working relationship at the Court of Appeal in Nis, at the workplace of a judicial assistant, calling a judicial associate. The call of a senior judicial associate was made in 2011. It is responsible for monitoring the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and Legal Opinions and the conclusions taken at meetings of all appeals courts, despite the regular affairs of the judicial assistant. For the results achieved over the previous three years, it has been assessed by the evaluation – in particular it stands out. She was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received at the Court of Appeal in Nis. Stanojkovic Dalibor was also proposed as a judge at the Main Court in Nis. Otherwise, he's a judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce in Nis. He graduated from the Faculty of Law at Nis with an outstanding score of 9.13. He passed the judicial exam in 2010. First, he worked in the law office, then, after a judicial trial, continued to work in the office until 2011, when he founded a working relationship at the Privred Court in Nis at the workplace of a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate and later in calling a senior judicial associate. It has been assessed by the highest grades – it is particularly prominent, and for this candidate we especially had in mind that he was the first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. The next candidate is Uvalin Jelena, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposed for the election of judges of the Basic Court in Nis. She was born in 1981, graduated Law School with an average score of 7.13. She passed the judicial exam in 2010. First, she worked as a lawyer intern at the law firm, then established a working relationship at the Court of Appeal in Nis. He is a participant in numerous seminars and professional trainings, speaks English. For the past three years, it has been assessed as the highest rating – particularly the one that stands out. As with the other candidates, the High Council of the judiciary particularly noted that when a session of all the judges of the Court of Appeal in Nis Uvalin Jelena was held, it was first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Milovanovic Ivana, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, also proposed for the election of the basic court in Nis. She was born in 1983, her studies ended in Nis with an excellent score of 8.35. She passed the judicial exam in 2011. First she worked at the Committee on Human Rights in Nis as a lawyer, or researcher, then as an intern at the Municipal Court, and now as a member of the second generation, she has been employed at the Judicial Academy since October 2011. The second year of doctoral law studies, criminal law direction at the Faculty of Law in Nis, and she passed all the exams scheduled by a study programme with an average score of 9.00 and is currently working on a proposal for a doctoral dissertation. According to the Director of the Judicial Academy, candidate Milovanovic Ivana is a professional, qualified and worthy judge and aware of the obligation to protect the reputation of the subpoena by his work and conduct and to work on his personal example on his promotion. The last, or ninth candidate proposed for the election of the Court of First Instance in Nis is Simic Marta, senior adviser to the DRI. She was born in 1980 in Nis. The Faculty of Law of Nis University ended with a general success of 8.03, passed the judicial exam in 2009. During the period 2006 to 2007, she worked as a legal intern, then in a working relationship at the District Court in Nis, and then as a judicial assistant in calling a judicial associate she was in a working relationship with the Court of Commerce in Nis, between 23 March 2010 and 2013, while she worked in the DRI from that day on. In the opinion of the representative of the institution, Savic Marta is highly trained and worthy of the performance of the judicial post, which she also showed by her work in this institution. So, when it comes to proposals for candidates for the basic court in Nis, and later on, I will only briefly talk about candidates who have been proposed for the New Sad basic court election, we see that they are candidates, so the judges who are the judges in which they work have received the maximum grade, so they have received maximum support. It's about candidates who are mostly first, or second or third on the ranking lists, with neither of them being missed. Then, candidates who have been assessed in the previous period with a maximum assessment "supervised" shall meet all the conditions in terms of expertise, skills, dignity to be elected to a judicial office and, most importantly, the results of their work by quantity and quality are significantly above the average, which is certainly recommended by them and what was specific when the High Council of the Judiciary decided to propose these candidates to elect these responsible functions. The next candidates who are here today, so to speak, on the agenda are candidates who have been proposed for the election of the basic court in Novi Sad. Gazivoda Angelka, a judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, who was born in 1981. She finished law school with an outstanding grade of 9.17. At the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad in 2010, she graduated from second-degree graduate studies in the general course study programme, with an average score of 9.80. In order to defend the work of "Institutory Educational Measures in Juvenile Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia", she received a score of 10. The judicial exam was passed in 2007. For the results achieved in the previous three years, she received the highest marks and, as I pointed out very significantly for the previously proposed candidates, the High Council of the judiciary had in particular taken into account that, when a session was held by all the judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad of Gazavod Angelko was first on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Đuric Milica, a judge's assistant at the basic court in Novi Sad, was also proposed. She was born in 1974. The Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Sad graduated in 1999 with a general success of 7.90. There are a total of 13 years of internships following a judicial examination, so one long internship following a judicial examination, since the judicial exam was passed in 2002. Otherwise, it was deployed, starting on 1 January 2010, at the Main Court in Novi Sad, where it works as a judicial assistant in desert matter. In the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad and the session of all the judges of the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, this candidate fulfils all the conditions laid down by the Law on Judges and Provisions on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, the competences for the selection of judges and the President of the Court of Justice, therefore, for the selection of judges of the Basic Court in Novi Sad. Josifovic Ivana, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, was born in 1979. The basic studies ended with a general success of 8.73. The judicial exam was passed in 2006. It has been deployed from 1 January 2010 to the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, and for the results achieved in the previous period it has been assessed with the highest score – it is particularly noted. The colleague Josifović Ivana is a participant of several expert seminars from the criminal and legal area with domestic and foreign representatives. In the newsletter of the Court of Appeal's court of Appeal in Novi Sad, her work “Crime of Family Violence” was also published. He speaks English. The next candidate is Nadrljanski Sinisha, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. He was proposed for the election of a judge at the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. He was born in 1981. He graduated from the University of Novi Sad Law School with an average score of 7.75. The judicial exam was passed in 2009. In 2009 at the Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Sad, he graduated from the second-grader's degree in the study programme of the general course "Legal and Scientific, Criminal and Law Area", with an average score of 9.00 and acquired the title of graduate lawyer – master. For the results achieved in 2011, 2012 and 2013 it was assessed by the evaluation – in particular it stands out. The high council of the judiciary particularly noted that when the session of all judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad was held, Nadrljanski Sinisha was second on the ranking list according to the number of votes received. Pakledinac Tatjana was also proposed to elect a judge in the primary court. He works as a judge's assistant at the New Sad Court. She was born in 1975. She graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad in September 2000 with a general success of 8.51. She passed the judicial exam in 2003. Therefore, there is a lengthy internship after the judicial examination has been passed, and for the results achieved in the previous period it has been assessed by judges who have been authorised to monitor and monitor its work with the highest score – it is particularly noted. During a statement by all the judges of the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, judges who appreciated its work ranked it first according to the number of votes received. Candidate Radovanovic Djordje, a judicial assistant at the Novi Sad Court of Appeals, is also proposed to elect judges at the New Sad Basic Court. He was born in 1981. The Faculty of Law in Novi Sad graduated in 2006 with an average score of 8.25. The judicial exam was passed in 2009. It has been deployed since January 2010 at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad in the Criminal Department. For the 2011, 2012 and 2013 results, he achieved extraordinary results and was assessed by the highest rating – it is particularly noted, and the High Council of the judiciary particularly had in mind that he was third on the ranking list according to the number of votes received by all the judges of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad Radovanović Đorđe. It's used in English and Russian. Tadic Biljana, judge's assistant in the primary court, was proposed for the election of judges at the Main Court in Novi Sad. The study ended in Novi Sad in 2002 with a general success of 8.70. In 2001 and 2002, she enrolled all the exams provided for in the curricula and programme of specialist and master studies, in English, EU civil and economic law organised by the Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Sad, with the support of German foundations. The judicial exam was passed in 2005 with a medal, and for the results achieved in the previous period, as well as other candidates proposed by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, was assessed by the highest assessment – particularly the one being said. The high council of the judiciary particularly noted that when the session of all judges was delivered, Tadic Biljana was fourth on the ranking list according to the number of votes received, right after the first three candidates also proposed to this Assembly by the High Council of the Judiciary. Bozinovic Bojan, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed for the election of a judge at the New Sad Court of Justice. The Faculty of Law in Novi Sad graduated in 2005 with an outstanding average of 9.21. At the Faculty of Law of the University of Novi Sad in 2008, he graduated from second-degree graduate studies on a general course study programme with an average score of 10.00. He graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, a working-legal district of science. He enrolled in the 2009/2010 school year. and reported on the topic of doctoral dissertation entitled "Work and Social Courts, the social role and the justification of introducing into the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia". At the end of 2011, he passed an entrance exam at the Judicial Academy and established a working relationship in the status of the initial training students to perform the judicial, or prosecutorial functions. At the University of Belgrade Law Faculty, he also published research work titled "Law subordination as an important mark of working relationship". He speaks the language and, in the opinion of the Director of the Judicial Academy, by his knowledge, expertise, activities and results so far, he is certainly qualified, worthy and professional and is therefore proposed by the High Council of the judiciary. So, when it comes to candidates who are proposed for the New Sad basic court election, as I said earlier, and when I explained the proposal for a selection for the basic court in Nis, you see that it is about candidates who have passed with extraordinary evaluations of the law school, then, passed with the honours of a judicial exam, they are active in their courts and for the previous period are assessed with the highest marks, the assessments -- particularly the ones that stand out. What's very important, you saw for yourself is that it's about candidates who have a lot of internships after a judicial exam, on the one hand. On the other hand, what is the High Council of the judiciary, and I believe that this Assembly will particularly appreciate the fact that, by fellow judges, experienced colleagues who have been in a position to monitor their work, to monitor their results, their progress in their work so far, have been evaluated and ranked in the highest places when it comes to pleading on colleges most often secreted and where they have practically painted their work and their success in that court so far. They otherwise showed really one maximum eloquence, expertise and education during the talks, that is, during the interview they conducted with the commission they formed, as I said, the High Council of the Judiciary. We also have one candidate for the primary court's election in Sjenica. As you know, the High Council of the Judiciary was proposing two candidates at one of the previous sessions, so one candidate dropped out. For this reason, at one of the previous sessions of the High Council of the Judiciary, we proposed Vučković Ljubodrag, a graduate lawyer who works at the Republic Geodetic Institute in Novi Pazar. Vukkovic Ljubodrag was born in 1977 in Sjenica. The Faculty of Law of the University of Kragujevac graduated in 2003 with a general success of 6.97. The traineeship was carried out at the Municipal Court in Sjenica, where he began his legal career. He passed the judicial exam in 2010, after which he worked for the Sjenica stationary cadastar, a real estate cadasar in Prijepolje and a real estate cadastre in Novi Pazar, where he is still present. According to the Director of the Republic Geodetic Office of the Institute of Immobilities in Novi Pazar, Vukkovic Ljubodrag is a professional, qualified and worthy judge in the Basic Court of the Sjenica, which was also reached by the Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary and all members of the High Council of the Judiciary in the analysis of his previous work, which is why he was proposed for the primary court's election in Sjenica. I would not continue to keep time for you, honourable MPs, just once again to point out that we believe that the election of candidates proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary for these three courts will give these courts good judges, good candidates. I am confident and convinced that their work in the coming period will be better working and the results of working in these courts, and in this way the overall judiciary will be better, which I believe is the goal not only of us in the High Council of the judiciary and of you sitting here in the Republic Parliament, but of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24904	Thank you. The Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government Committee's rapporteur is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24905	Dear Madam President of the Assembly, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee of Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, held at its session some time ago, discussed the proposal of the High Council of the Judicial Council to elect judges for the Court of Justice in Nis, Novi Sad and the General Court in Sjenica and unanimously reached the conclusion and proposed to this National Assembly to accept the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and to elect candidates and candidates whose names and names you have heard and reasons along with their names, to choose them as judges of the Court of Justice in Nis, the General Court in Novi Sad and Sjenica, as judges who are first elected to judge. Since I have had the pleasure, honor and obligation to participate as chairman of the Committee and in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary when the candidates for the selection of judges in the mentioned courts have been discussed, I can tell you that on the High Council of the Judiciary it is very thorough, professionally, with reasons, each of the candidates, on the basis of a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, and this proposal has been made before us today, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a bit easy, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, to choose between 400 candidates registered, here 18 candidates who should be elected to office for the first time. It's not a bit easy because there are a lot of good candidates and candidates who also deserve to be elected judges. Among all these candidates, it has been assessed and estimated that those who are proposed at the moment are the best possible choice for judges first elected in these three basic courts. Normally, there will be more elections, there will be more competitions, there will be more time for these candidates who have not now passed as candidates for the first time for judges to be elected, so that the possibility remains that in the coming time, when the judges' seats are vacant in the primary or other courts, they will be elected judges. In order not to owe you much, I, dear colleagues and colleagues, in front of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, suggest that you accept the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary and that we unanimously select these proposed candidates for the Court of Justice in Nis, Novi Sad and Sjenica and wish them to do their job successfully and that after three years of their evaluations of success be positive and be elected judges at permanent work in those courts. In this way, we will contribute to improving the situation in the Serbian judiciary, the hearings are scheduled and the trials are completed faster and there will be as little criticism of the work of the Serbian judiciary as possible. Let's make that contribution. Let us select these judges for the first choice in the Court of First Instance in Nis, Novi Sad and Sjenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24906	Thank you. The first of the representatives of the parliamentary group reported to Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24907	I thank you, President. The honourable representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, the honourable fellow MPs, well, here's who knows which way ahead of us is what our obligation is, what is our jurisdiction, what the Constitution has put in our jurisdiction, which is to first analyze and then execute a choice of proposals for the holders of judicial functions chosen for the first time in that function, for a three-year period. The SPS parliamentary group unequivocally and clearly emphasises its position that this practice, for the sake of full independence of the judiciary, for the sake of full autonomy of the judiciary, should be terminated, and even the Constitution to change in this regard, in order to remove from this Parliament what the choice of judicial holders implies and to entrust it with the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Judicial Council. But until this happens, until we realize an ideal that is difficult to reach, which is the independence of the judiciary, we are obliged to do our job, our duty in the best possible way, and that means choosing from the best. I must point out immediately that the SPS parliamentary group particularly appreciates what the High Council of the Judiciary did when it adopted proposals for judges in the basic courts we are considering today. However, dear colleagues, this is not a naive story at all, and this is something that should be worth our attention for the future life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, primarily because of the availability of citizens, the right to justice, the availability of courts and the right to a fair trial. Therefore, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, by the SPS parliamentary group, you have full respect and respect for your work and for your efforts. At the same time, we draw attention that those who are proposed will face great challenges, faced with the great temptations that they expect after the election for the holders of judicial functions. First of all, what awaits them is one great responsibility, and this great responsibility comes down immediately and in the very beginning to respect the rights of the parties in the trial procedure within a reasonable period of time. Why am I pointing this out? Because the excessive trial is within a reasonable period, as a legal institute, finally removed from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and transferred to the jurisdiction of second-degree courts. Unfortunately, the sick situation in the Serbian judiciary has just been infected with this syndrome, and the syndrome is called a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time frame, which is why the state of Serbia is in serious harm. I must, Mr. Tomic and my dear colleague, draw attention to something you yourself know. Serbia, on behalf of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg of the previous two years, had to pay about four and a half million euros in compensation. Only from 2014, according to the Republic of Serbia's budget, because of the court's ruling in Strasbourg, the budget will be reduced by 2.7m euros. It is an authentic report by the Council of Europe on the execution of judgments. The report said that Serbia in the past year, therefore, paid compensation in time for 15 cases in 2014, in 2014. She didn't pay off 27 cases in time, until 93 cases even provided evidence that the damages were paid. Such a large number of convictions and a large amount of damage claims bring Serbia fifth in the number of judgments in which the compensation is still expected, following Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and Romania. Serbia has problems with the execution of criminal sanctions, with the execution of key European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg. The Council of Europe Committee of Ministers decided, among other things, to exercise enhanced control over the execution of the verdicts, in cases which have been disclosed, so that I will not harm any person's right to personality or to abuse the names and last names of anyone, but it is doubtless that the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers will exercise enhanced supervision in situations relating to the cases and proceedings of Zorica Jovanovic against Serbia over the disappearance of babies from the maternity home, Grudic – against Serbia for the payment of Kosovo pensions, Alicic – against Serbia due to the payment of old foreign currency savings, but also 40 cases resulting from the lack of judicial decisions and solutions by the state authorities of Serbia. Why are we pointing to this? Because these young judges who will be elected as holders of judicial functions, on the basis of these examples, must, from the very start of their work, be extremely responsible, extremely secure, highly professionally and professionally approach their work. In order to minimise the number of infringements of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, so that the number of injuries is reduced to a minimum, in order to finally free a large ballast and, in particular, not to last for decades or even a few decades. Dear colleagues from the High Council of the Court of Respect is what you predicted as criteria for selecting the holders of judicial functions, but I have to draw attention to something else that seems sufficiently said here. It is not disputed that all candidates meet these criteria. It is also not disputed that many of these candidates have an extremely high average rating. However, we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that it must not be slaved to that high average college grade. Why? Because theoretical knowledge is acquired at the university, and theoretical knowledge must be valorized through practical work, success in practical work. What you have assessed, and what the Presidents of the Court have assessed, and what has evaluated the College for us, is a criterion of the value of these candidates, and these are the estimates – particularly the points are highlighted, special features etc. After all, why don't we be a little pesoriatic, so we have a million doctors, conditionally speaking and figuratively speaking, who have graduated from medical school with a very low average rating, and today they are top doctors, top doctors in their specials. Of course, even these young people who are listed here who are proposed will be, I am convinced, those who will be supreme judges and thus the judiciary will get by quality. However, in addition to these criteria relating to the choice itself for legal holders, it is far more significant that they will be evaluated during work. How their work will be evaluated during the performance of the judge's office. Whether or not to display the quality of the judge's function, whether it will be up-to-date, whether it will be successful and whether it will continue to be worthy of performing a judicial function. That is why I believe that criteria through the Rules on the assessment of the work of the judges still need to contribute to the continued monitoring of the work of these holders of judicial functions. I'm not sure, dear colleagues from the High Council of the Judiciary that even after a long, long time before the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure of the Judges, we still have those criteria and those rules that will best be able to valorize and value the work of the judges. It's still slaved to the quantity, compared to speed up quality. The judges remain burdened with the norm, i.e. the effect remains burdened by the fact that they have to solve a huge number of cases in a very short time, and that is all at the expense of quality. According to us, there is one fact in the SAA that no one will question, that only good judgments, the only verdicts that are passed with the greatest quantity of knowledge and with the consistent application of the law will be judgments that will represent legal certainty for citizens, will be judgments that will enable citizens to exercise their rights and their interests. If the judges are burdened with a large number of cases and we impose that the effect, in any case, is above all other criteria, then this criterion that I have put forward and this value criterion will not be respected. We have a few more problems that we have identified in the SPS parliamentary group before. It is not correct and it is not good for individual judges in certain management posts to be burdened with a large number of cases, such as the presidents of civil departments, such as the presidents of judicial practice, such as the Presidents of the Courts. It is not correct because they are also subject to the Regulation on the assessment or evaluation of their work. It would be logical for their cases or the number of cases to be compared to what they can really do, while at the same time responsible, safe and professionally performing and the functions of the president of the civil departments and the president of the case-law. In addition, respected colleagues from the High Council of the Judiciary have not been sufficiently done to stimulate judges, which you and how well you know. For the judge's sake, it's as good as it is. In any case, she is not adequate to what the judge should have as a profit. In no case is adequate to what implies something that is sublime and sublime is a judicial function. It certainly contributes greatly to the constraints of budget, budget and our financial situation, in general looking at the state. But, no matter what, in any case, it must not be allowed not to stimulate what is evident, because so far it has not shown that the judges who made the consultation papers, here is your court, the Supreme Cassation Court, which organises regular consultations in Vranjska Banja every year, no referendum has any stimulant in the material or financial sense of the word. The question is, why? Because it's about judges representing an elite part of the justice system. Because it's about the judges we learn from, the ones I learn from, the ones I go to counseling for. You're the reason I'm going to counseling. Where what means valorizing effort and work to organise such counselling is designed and ultimately in an educational sense gives full results. It's gone, and it has to be. In the future, much more attention needs to be paid. We in the SPS parliamentary group are very glad that the focus, the focus of what relates to the application of the criteria, is mainly on the judicial assistants. Why? Because it's just the judicial assistants that the judiciary stays on. Judges are no longer, as we are no longer, no profession is the majority, or individual in the profession is no longer. It's always that rule that the world stays young and represented here. We are very pleased that these young people are characterized as they are characterized, but there is another obligation on them, and I have already mentioned it in this presentation, which is a continuous education. The fact that some colleagues have enrolled in doctoral dissertations, that they have proven themselves with special features, that they participated in the design of professional works, is not enough for seminars. Law and law is something that follows life, and life is dynamic. We are constantly talking about that the legislative process is an evolutionary process, very dynamic, and therefore education is being undermined under this dynamicism and education must be related to everything that life circumstances impose, and they are constantly changing. Finally, when we talk about selecting the holders of judicial functions for these functions, we should also point out something that is very important for their future work, which is that, in addition to their work of absolute independence, impartialities must be taken into account by you in the High Council of the judiciary, so as not to fall into the trap of so-called. false solidarity. Col. Tomic, here in the opening statement you pointed out that all the colleges, or sessions of all the judges who were authorized to give evaluations on these judges, and we believe them. We in the parliamentary group, and I am confident and all the MPs here firmly believe, firmly believe that this position of all sessions, or, I apologize, is all the judges in the sittings of law. But also these judges and the Court of Appeals and senior courts assume a high degree of responsibility that there has been no discrimination. A high degree of responsibility, that there has been no privilege of individual candidates for the holders of judicial functions, that there has been no nepotism that is often indicated and that is often respected and that the proposals are indeed real. That degree of responsibility must exist in everyone. That degree of responsibility must exist especially with the president of the courts. The presidents of the courts are the ones who have to avoid that so-called. a system of false solidarity and that always indicate who in their court is doing good and who is doing bad. We are not citizens, nor are we MPs familiar with some large number of cases. That the Presidents of the Courts have initiated proceedings, i.e. initiated procedures to determine the responsibilities of individual judges who do not perform their work in the way the law prescribes it, that it is their obligation and still lacks what it means to apply adequate mechanisms, i.e. penalties for those who are unworthy, unprofessional and unprofessional. We can't say they're gone, there are because of the relics of a previous time, because in this previous time so-called time. experimentation on living people, in vivo experiments played with judges, and as many as 700 people were out of court, then those same 700 people, whether they were worth it or not, whether they were responding or not, were brought back to the courts. We have this inherited problem today. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts that those who do not do their job as the law and their profession to identify such judges and to bring such judges under responsibility or to determine responsibility for the failures in their work. As long as it doesn't get to that system then the state of justice will continue. That cancer has already been metastasized. The metastases are not yet stalled, and I'm afraid that such a disease in the judiciary is becoming incurable. Of course, we in the SPS parliamentary group firmly believe that such consequences will not come. That is why, and finally, when I talk about this, I point out that the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposals for the selection of judicial holders as we have obtained them in the material. In this remaining time, I will also briefly refer to the authentic interpretation of Article 13. Isn't the debate connected? Are you sure? I'm sorry. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: No debate is joined. ) In any case, we remain in the SPS parliamentary group in the position that these proposals are accepted and that we will vote for them. I thank my colleague Mark Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24908	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. A representative of the parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24909	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not present at the gallery today, so there is no need to greet. Yesterday was a special situation, not even in front of the Assembly today. According to respected representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary under the Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the choice of judges to serve as judicial office. I would refer to Mr Neđa Jovanovic, a respected colleague of Neđa Jovanovic for his findings, indeed she is too sharp, I will quote him. So, I quote Mr. Nejo Jovanovic, those are not my words. I would be a little less in that sense, even if I chose words, he says, “that the disease in our justice system is incurable. ” I just note that Nedja Jovanovic, with this coalition in power for three years and it is not good that in those three years, the disease is not at least slightly healed. I also agree in the assessment that there are problems, the unsatisfactoryness of judges in certain cases intricacies, and in an insane way with the fact that judges are not stimulated by financial thinking and by status in order to perform judicial functions. But this National Assembly has also passed laws, or created conditions to pay judges and those who choose today to be reduced and that their stimulant for quality work and for the financial position that allows them the status that the judge in each society has is not adequate. I couldn't agree more with Mr. Neđa Jovanovic. I'd even say in the part where he said the problems in our judiciary were big, but I'd say we'd have to start solving them. One of the things I wanted to say in one way is that my previous ones are that the judiciary, the judiciary, should be depoliticalized, and that the legislative authority will not get into the work of the judicial authorities, and that's what we're doing today. So, the power of law is chosen by the judge. Here are representatives of political parties, and that is, in some way, the influence of the legislative authority, read the party on the choice of judges, and that is one of the things that the EU resents and that resents us the regulated countries that are in this area, that is to say to the organisation that monitors the independence of the judiciary. We, even as the Social Democratic Party, have made proposals, and we will also give them to the Assembly for the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the competent laws under which the High Council of the judiciary would elect judges, but before that, the High Council of the judiciary must be absolutely depoliticised. Therefore, the High Council must be an independent, professional body that will defend the profession, which will defend the reputation of the profession, which will defend the professionalism, which will defend the independence of the judiciary, which will defend one word one of the three pillars of power, which is the judicial pillar of the government that will be independent of the executive authority and of the legislative authority. We are witnesses very often in this Assembly that sometimes she is, in some ways, there was also yesterday, that she is turning into a courtroom, that she is easy to say about being a criminal, that someone is prone to corrupt actions, and when she comes out of this assembly she is nothing. They say hard things. None of those faces are in court proceedings. What's that? It's an abuse of the institution, interference in the judiciary, interference in independent judicial power. Today we need to discuss the choice of judges in Nis, the Court of First Instance in Nis, the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad and the Judges of the Basic Court in Sjenica, a judge of the Basic Court in Sjenica. We in the parliamentary group have analyzed all these proposals in detail, we have been dealing with a business that is not our political party's business. So we had to sort of get into every biography of the judge, what was available to us from the High Council of Justice and assess whether we would vote for a particular judge in the voting day. The question is, how much data do we here about these judges, the adequate ones really have, and the question is, are we, and all of you, going to make an adequate decision? This is the context we're working in right now. However, the laws until they change must be respected and therefore we will, of course, take our stand, but I want to point to some circumstances that will define us when we vote, but also some directions that could be read from the data we heard from the VSS representatives. A representative of the VSS said that, in Novi Sad, for eight or nine judges, eight judges, 257 candidates were reported, that 175 candidates had applied for the ten judges in Nis and 17 candidates had applied for the primary court's election session. So 20 times the number of candidates reported, 20 times the number of candidates, and we tried to analyze what that was about. The judge's office is respectable, no matter what I've talked about. So being a judge today and being a judge, not taking some last year, being a judge between two world wars or being a judge 100 years ago is not the same, the judge was always the highest rank, or the highest status rate, and when students study sociology or some other social sciences, so when they talk about the elite, then they say it, so when they say examples say, judges, doctors, lawyers. I'm stuck with this word, lawyers, and I wonder why so many candidates are trying to become judges? A student with a law degree, a traineeship and a passed judicial exam can choose whether to deal with a lawyer, or to do judicial work and see from this number of candidates reported to be an increasing number of those who want to become judges. No matter what status is not to the end appropriate. I link it to the story of some students who have almost graduated from Law School and who say – Yes, we wanted to be lawyers, to be a lawyer, but we are told by senior colleagues who became lawyers that we are not getting into it. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic will confirm to me if that's not the case. Why? Well, because in that area, it's worse than in the judiciary. Not worse in terms of expertise, but in terms of lawyers becoming insecure about their existence. How are they threatened by existence? We all know that, by government decisions in the last year, which in some way took away their basic existence to lawyers. It has given certain privileged positions to one third category, notaries, which unfortunately has not been corrected by the last amendments to the law, as the law is not respected and could be conducted by a special debate, the Association of Lawyers will probably also make a statement on this issue. This law is not adequately respected and notaries are engaged or intending to deal with nadrising, i.e. by taking over the office of lawyers. No one forbids them because our amendments have not been accepted to clearly prohibit notaries from dealing with certain matters. That's why today we have a situation here that 20 times the number of candidates have applied for a judge's office over the number elected. We have several inconsistencies here. I could also ask the representatives of the VSS and the representatives of the board of directors, we have a misunderstanding about the election of the judge of the Court of Justice in Sjenica. So, by no criterion does that person who is elected to a judicial office have any elements that you're talking about, none of those elements. That face has worked in the catastrus for the last five years. So it's got nothing to do with the judiciary except to do an internship in court, about the judge's grades that I'm not talking about, I really don't even want to talk about it. In that sense, I wonder what about the other 17 candidates, or 16 candidates who applied, were their biographies even less good, to say whether it was a reflection of the fact that in fact Serbia lives in two cities or three, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and a little bit in Kragujevac and whether it reflects the fact that we no longer have in places such as Sjenica a person who could be elected to a judicial post, and that it really wants to live in Sjenica and that it has everything, that it meets all the criteria that need for one judge. It seems to us here in the Shadow, but I'm afraid that's the case in some other provinces, as we say, a similar situation, that we don't have adequate people. The particular question is, that's what we just found out, maybe last time it was, which is why another candidate from Sjenica gave up the election, or the application to the competition, is he maybe in another, bigger town gone and he's going to compete there because he wouldn't want to live in any such small town, or is it some other case? In any case, last time it was about the choice of judges, I was talking about the fact that the young judges we choose today need to rise above the daily routine of our judiciary, which is quite dreary, unspeakable of course, we know that the courts haven't worked for four or five months, of course because of the responsibility of this government. We know that the courts are unscheduled, that some cases end up in Strasbourg as well. A colleague who spoke before me spoke very closely. I don't know if she complains or boasts about it. I'm a little sarcastic because as an MP for the ruling coalition, this topic should start perhaps on some committees before such discussions. So, if we have so much damage paid by Serbia based on the fact that some judges made some wrong decisions that the Strasbourg court declared contrary to some of the principles of justice and Serbia pays huge damages. Will there be a verdict tomorrow in Strasbourg concerning the expropriation of the land of Beograd on Water? Is tomorrow going to be another generation paying those expenses? In that sense, I believe that the situation in the judiciary is such that we need to talk seriously, without any political persuasion. Everyone has their mistakes, and those who may have fired 500, 600, 700 judges who they thought were not worthy of performing those functions and those who brought all these judges back to justice, both have a burden of responsibility. I would say that the situation in the judiciary is such that the requirement is a broader social consensus of political parties, because if we do not cure what Mr. Jovanovic said, if we do not cure the judiciary, that one of the pillars of power, we will not have a legal state and everyone in this country will be insecure and will fear that the court's decision, judges will be politically or otherwise colored. In that sense, we observe a plea, a debate on the choice of judges in basic courts. Surely in the voting day we won't be able to support all the proposals, but if we get any clarifications from you, you might convince us, especially in those cases where we're wondering if it was the best candidate, and we have no other choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24910	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24911	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I believe the injured member is 27. A Rules of Procedure which says that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. We had a debate yesterday, or early this morning. One of the main things was the fact that the prime minister repeatedly stressed that he was present all day. We just started a debate, an hour ago, an authorised representative isn't here. I ask you to ensure the presence of an authorised representative, so that we can conduct a hearing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with our practice. This morning, we were informed that instead of Mr Milojevic, Mr Tomic would be an authorised representative and I don't know why he couldn't have stayed here this hour and ended this debate the way we conduct all discussions in parliament with the presence of an authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24912	Mr. Djurisic, this is at least incorrect, because before I called Mr. Veseinovic, I asked if the problem was, since Mr. Tomic had to come out to take an oath in the small hall of the National Assembly, here he is coming back, and I asked if the problem was these ten minutes that Mr. Tomic was not present. Mr. Vesenovic said that it is not a problem and that it is not a problem for him, that he can speak, and now it is incorrect that from your parliamentary group you are standing up and saying that it is not right that Mr. Tomic was not present. It speaks more of you, so let's see that it's not worth asking you anything, agreeing or asking. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24913	According to Article 104, I have the right to reply because it is the wrong interpretation of my presentation, if there is anything like this at all, whether it is wrong or intentional, I do not want to believe that the intention, when it was debated by my colleague Janko Veseinovic. First of all, I did not say that the permanent situation in the judiciary was incurable, but that we were afraid that it would not be incurable, and that only because in the period when Mr. Janko Veseinovic's party was in power, it came to the fact that the judiciary was infected with the most severe disease that relates to the fact that, without any criteria that we are discussing today, someone is playing with the judges, which is precisely the authority that is characterized by a party that once belonged to a colleague, Janko Veseinovic, and afterwards these problems are deepening. When we talk about Strasbourg, for information, especially for the sake of Serbian citizens, it should be said that these judges, which are the most damaged in 2010, are now in front of Strasbourg, Mr Veselinovic, with claims that the state of Serbia is suffering damage, which is why Serbia's budget is burdened with enormously high claims on the name of immaterial damage, because today, even before our courts, proceedings are being conducted to compensate those judges who were then illegally removed or expelled from the courts. That's why we're in a sick state of justice. That's why it needs to be treated. That's why there are these problems we're talking about today, and we're trying to solve them. That is why I have the right to reply, given that I have been called, and I will not plead on the rest of the discussion, because they are a little distant from the topic, especially I will not, given that the Socialists, as well as our entire coalition, are respecting today when young judges in this high house take an oath and are thus officially becoming judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24914	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The young judges have just taken an oath and I congratulate them. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24915	I apologize for the little misunderstanding. So, I did say I'd wait for the VSS representative to return. I thought it would be sooner, but in any case, there was no evil intention when Mr. Djurisic pointed out the fact that there was no authorised representative, but I apologize if you assessed it as incorrect. It wasn't incorrect on our part, it was an attempt to respect certain basic principles. Here, I've contributed to a deal that might disrupt some of these principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24916	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24917	When it comes to Mr. Nedja Jovanovic's discussion, I really don't understand why such a passion. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic has a serious political problem. He'd really like to be, I'd say, a representative of his profession, of his legal profession, and on the other hand, when he appears in replicas, he'd like to be an MP for the SPS. When he speaks as a representative of the profession, I support him. I have now practically supported him in everything, even saying that in some things I might be a little bit more mild in the assessment of the situation in the judiciary and he is now reporting as a representative of the SPS, fearing that he may be resented by his SNS colleagues. Don't worry, Nejo, they won't mind you, try to defend your profession, because that's our common goal. Let's not talk about who destroyed the judiciary in 1990, etc. I'm trying to share responsibility in the debate, if that's possible. So, I said it wasn't just this power that was responsible for this situation, I even said, maybe 50% of the previous and current authorities are responsible, but if 50% are responsible for the previous and current government, you are responsible 100%, because you were in the previous and current government, Mr. Jovanovic. Please, don't, I support you as a lawyer, but as an SPS MP, you'd better not compromise yourself in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24918	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Replica, MP Nedja Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24919	Chairman, first of all, I think that as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I don't need anyone to defend me. I and how well I know how much I have done in this high house and in this House to protect my profession, and I will do so as long as my living opportunities and physical abilities allow it. And as for the assessment of who caused certain problems about the judiciary that we have identified today, we should not speak to me or my colleague Veseinović, that will say those judges who suffered agony in 2010, suffered catharsis, suffered anything they wished no one could, and who is guilty of that will say and also speak by mainly initiating actions to protect their rights, and thank God in these proceedings they succeed, and I sincerely want them to succeed even more. The only thing that we don't understand in the SPS parliamentary group is the fact that no one has even been called to account for the year 2010 in which the worst legal breakdowns have occurred in the last 20 and over years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24920	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24921	Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, I am afraid, in discussions of these predecessors, we have gone far from what is the point of the agenda. In fact, at least in their presentations we talked about why we are here today, what we need to discuss here today, what we own to decide about, and because of that, and also because of the public of Serbia who is eager to hear what is being discussed in this higher house, debates the choice of judges who are first elected to judge functions. I would remind you that this is just the final process, this is just the last link. I would like to say that the National Assembly and we MPs were absolutely in no way involved in the process that preceded the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary given to this Parliament. A representative of the High Council of the judiciary presented to all of us that a competition was launched in July 2014 and that there were certain criteria for applying to the competition. After that, the High Council formed a commission, I believe from professional people, I believe from people who have been in this profession for a very long time and who, of course, can evaluate the quality of candidates. Then we received information from you, I say as a MP, both a lawyer and a member of the Committee on Justice and a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, we absolutely did not know who the candidates were. I didn't know, and my fellow MPs didn't know who applied for the Court of First Instance in Nis, the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad, and who applied for the General Court in Sjenica? You gave us the information today, which is that there were 257 candidates in Novi Sad, that there were 175 candidates in Nis and that there were 17 candidates in Sjenica. The commission I mentioned earlier had a huge task, with all these candidates, to do an interview. Each of these people received a call, arrived in Belgrade, said what they had on themselves. The members of the Commission have probably examined what they are interested in, what is valid for them, you have told us that they have shown an envious degree and eloquence and knowledge. Of course, that's because it's about people who are eloquent. According to college estimates, according to what you read, the average is about 9.32, 9.55, 9.13. Some have an average of 7.13, 7.90, and I can tell you, from some experience, these grades are very important, but in the end it's irrelevant, maybe someone's gonna be a better judge who's 7.13 than the one who's 9.32 in college. You know, a man goes on his whole life, works on himself, confirms himself, someone stagnates, someone goes backwards. Apparently, all these lawyers you chose worked on a lot, participated in many seminars, participated and took an interest in all the affairs within the courts and state institutions in which they worked. Apparently, their knowledge of foreign languages, or English, shows a general education, shows that intellectuals who are versatile, who are eager to advance and who are aware that knowledge of one of the world’s languages can further strengthen their knowledge acquired in Serbian, by completing the Law School with a high grade. What's very important is what you've been taking care of, too, is that they passed the judicial exam, they passed it with a medal. Not everyone can do that. It is evident that they passed it within the time period after the traineeship was completed, which also shows that they did not do it on many occasions, but they passed as it would be said from the booze, all of a sudden, they passed all the exams and the written part and that part of the oral part. After that, they worked where they were, each of them, got an evaluation of a professional college, or a college of judges, so the people they spent two or three years with, who were best able to scan them, who could best learn if they were people interested in work, whether they were qualified, whether they were professional or worthy. Who's going to judge who's better than who's with you? And if it's decided by a secret vote, so there's no way to put pressure on someone, to promise someone a favor, because it's simply uncheckable how you voted for someone. The best way is to vote in secret and in this way all of these candidates behind whom you have stepped have received most of the votes of the colleagues they have worked with there. Obviously, they have all continued to train, to complement their knowledge, we see that many have enrolled in doctoral studies, that many have continued to be educated, and it is obvious that it is about candidates who are hungry for knowledge, who are eager to prove and who want to do this job, which is very difficult and very responsible at the same time, but also very honorable who brings respect to society, which brings the whole family of this man who is elected as judge and respects himself in a special way in the middle where he lives. And since it's about young people, they obviously have their families behind them, and they look forward to the day when we will vote for their choice. In the finale of all this, it remains for us as MPs to plead whether we accept your proposal or do not accept it. We don't have the opportunity to do anything, to influence in any way. I am telling you, since I am an authorised representative of the SNS in parliament that the SNS parliamentary group will support your proposal in the voting day. So we'll vote yes. We'll accept what you suggested to us today. My suggestion is to keep doing this. This is one process that must be respected, this is one process that is completely clear and transparent and visible to all. Today we have heard no argument from anyone, no candidate, no opponent, no representative of the political parties that are representatives of the citizens of the environment from which they came, we have not heard at least one comment on any candidate in the sense that he should not be on this list of proposals, but should have been someone else. Obviously, this is the best possible way, and that is why you will continue to have our support. In that sense, it should continue to work and that in those courts where there is a shortage of judges, you must as soon as you initiate the choice of judges in view of what Mr. Neđo Jovanovic said, which is that there are a huge number of cases, there is a huge inflow of cases, there is a number of cases that are huge from the previous period. We were damaged during that period in 2010 when over 900 judges and prosecutors were completely unreasonablely expelled from the judiciary. They were mostly the best judges, mostly the best prosecutors, mostly the people who had proven themselves and worked for 20 and 30 years. The way they were not elected was the following - was one low bar in which the then chief or chairman of the Justice Committee had his own electoral headquarters, an election headquarters for the election, or for the election of judges and prosecutors in Serbia. Cards were placed there, marked places where basic and higher courts were intended, appeals, supreme, cassation, and there was a lottery, sheets were brought, papers. Everyone reported from their municipal board of DS who can, and who can't pass, who's good with DS has a green light, who's not good with DS is unsuitable, he's untrustworthy, you can't possibly choose and they're absolutely not chosen. There were red and green arrows with markings and each one of them got one arrow. Those who received the red were stabbed and were not elected judges. They later sued this country. They are the ones who charge from the budget and they are the ones who made this deficit Mr. Jovanovic spoke of. Maybe some items will go to Strasbourg. I have no information that it's yet to come and get that measure, that dimension. I think our courts will evaluate and rightly do adequate damage for the suffering of mental pain, suffering, shame for the family. Some people weren't allowed out on the street. Some have retreated into themselves. Some died, in the meantime, of grief, of misery, of misery, of their heart broken. Some were completely lost, pulled in, stopped contacting family members. It is fortunate that in 2012 there was a change in absolutely political and then, of course, in justice policy. It was also released from one branch of government to make decisions as prescribed in the law. The Constitutional Court said the decisions were unconstitutional. Thank God, over 900 judges and prosecutors have returned to their jobs. I'm not saying that they were all for getting out of the judiciary, and I'm not saying that they were all for going back to justice. This is served by this High Council of the Judiciary, the State Major Prosecutors, and you and your colleagues will have to consider in detail all the facts, determine whether there is an objective responsibility, whether there is something that is suspicious and that those people who are not for the judiciary are getting away from it as soon as possible, because it contributes and harms all of us, it is a lie to all of us and in this Assembly. It was famous, too, for the Vlasotins, which I had just received papers on, and it was some, as the government made secret lists of similar judges. Now I'm going to read this to you, it was published on 8 March 2014, only to make the Serbian public understand how judges and prosecutors are elected at the time of DS authorities, from which today's speaker also comes. The municipal leaders of DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24922	Mr. Nikolic, please just, since there are no DS representatives here, don't mention the party. Finish it. (Jovana Jovanovic, from the place: I do. ) But it is not correct, and if there is, there is only Miss Jovanovic, so please do not cause replicas. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24923	Mr. Chairman, it's not my intention to challenge anyone from the DS. Today, an authorised representative spoke here, someone who was a member of the DS at the time, who decided and elected judges at the time. But if you think this is incorrect, I'll just say a few sentences and finish. In the most embarrassing way possible in this part of Europe, the judges were expelled from the judiciary by writing from Vlasotinc a letter drawn up by the DS municipal board and where it is said – he is close, he can, choose him, he is not reliable against our party, he has not rejected criminal charges against our leaders, he cannot be elected. And do you think any of them were chosen whom they said they should not be chosen? Of course not. It was a party then. An absolute party judiciary that was supposed to be obedient to some regime that went down in history. In 2012, of course, Serbia's citizens are completely dissatisfied with the absolute state of affairs in both the country and the economy and the economy, and, of course, dissatisfied with the situation in the judiciary, they said – goodbye, bye-bye in history. What is contradictory in today's discussions, small salaries in the judiciary and even reduced measures by the government of the RS, or by this parliament's decision. Of course, the judges are in the public sector. Of course, we all have to save, and it's clear to everyone, except the MPs of the opposition. Everyone accepted it and no one complained about it. But if you cross-reference the salary of one judge of the basic court and these young people who are going to go into court in the next day, compare those salaries to those of another sector, you will see that they are multiplely higher. There's a possibility that you're working as a judge for the previous trial, so you're on duty, so you're doing more judgments, you get special compensation. Their salaries are about 1,000 euros. In Serbia, at a time like this, a thousand euros is really not small. It's controversial why these people go to judges. That was a strange thing to say to one of the speakers here. So 257 candidates in Novi Sad, 175 in Nis, 17 in Sjenica. This only shows how interested people in Serbia are, of course, those who have graduated from Law School, who passed a judicial exam and who have conditions for such a thing, because it is not a large percentage. This is a huge, really huge number. This is an extraordinary interest in any job, even this one. It just shows that we're becoming a completely normal, completely organized state where everyone does their job. I'm asking you from the High Council of the Judiciary to do your job like this and the way you've done it so far. You'll have our support. You will also have my support as a MP and as a professional, a lawyer, a man who is more than 25 years in this profession and believe that public opinion in the Serbian judiciary is satisfied with the current situation in the judiciary because they see light at the end of the tunnel. They understand that we want to create an independent judiciary, and we will work on that background and beyond. In voting day, we'll give our vote. We will support your proposal unreservedly and I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all future elected judges on their choices and to wish to do their best and to be completely independent, not to report to any of us, not to ask us for any help because they will not get it, and we are obliging ourselves not to influence their decisions in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24924	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word. On what basis, Mr. Veselinovic? (Janko Vesenovic from the post: He directly mentioned my discussion and said it refers to my discussion, not DS. I didn't get that impression. He only mentioned DS. That's why I said not to mention DS, because there's only Miss Jovanovic, I haven't seen a colleague. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Someone who had been to the DS before. ) Mr. Veselinović, you'll get the chance, don't make me recognize anyone's speech now whether or not he meant anyone. Here, here, if you think it's really important. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24925	Of course it's important, since this is a discussion in which we should face attitudes. So, Mr. Nikolic in a few things was really wrong and I think he was even incorrect. When he spoke of the fact that a number of judges for no reason was, as he said, removed from the judiciary, so we agreed. I kind of said there were probably people like that and there were probably mistakes. He stated that some of these judges had mental pain, that in some they even died. That's right. However, it would be correct to say that because of these people, some of these other people had mental pains, that there were deaths, that some of these judges who were removed from the judiciary had 20 and more apartments, and how to obtain 20 apartments with a court salary, etc. Among these judges were corrupt judges, among these judges there must have been honest people, who may have been better or worse judges, but let's not be incorrect and blame those who tried to bring order into the judiciary. Anyway, she's incorrect and next thing you know. When I said that people were going to the judiciary, I didn't say that the situation was great, but I said that in law, because of this power, the situation is worse than in the judiciary, because they've been stripped of some of their functions and therefore the judges, especially the lawyers who are now starting to deal with this business can't live off their incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24926	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I didn't mean to interrupt, but I don't think it's right that you've offended a lot of people, because that's a lot of people. Were there several individuals among them who were like you said? It may have been safe, but it's still a large number of people I think you're now offended by what you said. Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, you're not right, because you're the one who caused the replica. You'll have a chance to say in a further debate whether or not you've caused the replica. I move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in search of the motion for a decision. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24927	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, at this session of the National Assembly in the framework of the agenda agenda and inspection, we talked about the need for reform of the state administration and the creation of an effective state apparatus that will function as citizens and businesses, of course. For such an important job, a very important job, professional, paid and dedicated officials are needed. It's a process in which, according to the SNP, we need to get in as soon as possible and thereby restore the trust of the peoples in the state and state appliances, which in time is less and less. Now, within this point of the agenda, we are talking about another branch of the government, we are talking about the judiciary and the need for important positions, and here it is about judges, young and educated people who will bear a heavy burden of responsibility and, therefore, the honor of applying the laws voted by this House in the name of the state. Citizens who are in a difficult economic and social situation expect justice, expect their rights to be in court as soon as possible. For years, the economy has been looking for effective courts to resolve major claims, so that debtors do not protect themselves at the expense of safe businessmen. For years, workers have been waiting for court disputes to be resolved. In one word, everyone is looking for a strong and independent judiciary, an effective and swift justice before the courts. That is why it has never been more important, as before, who will be elected judges and how the career of these judges will develop. The state must invest a lot to make new judges, but also those who have been in those positions for a long time, to be familiar with the new knowledge and experience of their colleagues in developed judicial systems. The Serbian People's Party believes it is important that the new judges, in addition to the full introduction of domestic legislation, monitor regularly and have the opportunity to monitor comparative law and practice in other countries and acquire new knowledge and skills. The state must invest in the judiciary and in the education of the judiciary. It is essentially an investment in the future, in the rule of law and something that must never be treated as a cost or unnecessary category or delayed for another time. By redistributing the budget, we are sure that this can be achieved. The judiciary must be continuously invested, because this is the only way to achieve the ultimate goal, and this is the quick end of judicial proceedings and justice done. That's why, as a SNP, we always support the choice of young people in such responsible positions and we believe that their judicial career will be truly arranged and that when they go to court, they will be able to say that they are going to justice. It is also the programme goal of the SNP, and as I notice according to the word search reports on today's agenda, I am the only one who has circled for here and I am sure that you, members of the High Council of the Judiciary, have also made the best possible choice at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24928	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24929	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Janjic and the Honorable Mr. Tomic, are the three notes that I want, first of all, to you and the MPs here, to say about our debate on the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office. I believe that this debate, since it is very important in my court, must also be serious and reasoned in our assembly, and the choice decision itself must be one solemn event. So, given the importance of this topic, every MP, I think, should approach and discuss this subject, so I am very sorry that there are few more participants in the debate, since the topic is so important. Another note, ladies and gentlemen of honor, 18 candidates from our Assembly, and as we all know well here, the central political institution in our constitutional system, we here repeat the mortuary – the sanctuary of political life in Serbia, therefore, from the Assembly, from here these 18 candidates should hear a message, respected gentlemen, that the work that will deal with the responsible work and that the subpoena is a sacred invitation that has its place in the Constitution of our Republic. I consider this debate to be about reminding ourselves of the importance of this call for which, I think, there is not one person in this house or among our guests today who will challenge the sanctity of this call. I would just like to point out which two members of the Constitution are just confirming their content what I was just talking about. First of all, Article 4. The constitution of our Republic regarding one great principle in all modern democracies, which is the principle of division of power. One of the views of Article 4 reads: “The regulation of power rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters. ” Look out, gentlemen, a special attitude is dedicated to the judicial branch of power, where attitude 4 states: “The judicial authority is independent. ” That's one message these candidates have to hear one more time that's likely to be elected. Article 149, dear gentlemen, is also very important, our Constitution, to remind ourselves here, and especially these 18 candidates we will choose. He says - the judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and only the law, gentlemen, any influence on the judge in the performance of the judge's office is forbidden. It was my second note regarding the sanctity of this subpoena and that in this way we treat that call, but that these 18 candidates on the day that we discuss their candidacy hear from here important messages concerning what they need to deal with. The third note, gentlemen, Mrs Janic and Mr Tomic, first of all, I think that the proposals should be argued in every situation, reminding the candidates and the ceremony of this event and of the importance and responsibility. Mr. Tomic, it seems to me that every time you come here, or on a similar occasion, it is very important that we not only read cartoons from the biography, so let's say it was or was at the seminar, but when it comes to this occasion, Mr. Tomic, that it is very important because of these candidates, but I must say also for the MPs and for all citizens of Serbia, always remind ourselves of the sublimeness of this call, to remind these candidates of what their work is so that they know that from the first day, from the day that they are discussed whether they will be chosen to be directed towards certain sacred principles, concerning the fundamental principles of our Constitution and our Republic, respected gentlemen. Hence, I believe that today's debate is very important, that it concerns responsibility and that some of the great principles on which every modern state rests, and Serbia, I think, should be a modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24930	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. If you'll excuse me, my dear professor, I'm very surprised that you are today in the sanctuary of political life, in the great hall of the House of the National Assembly without tie. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is okay. I don't think that's right. It's okay that I'm surprised. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24931	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honored guests of the High Council of the Judiciary, I fully agree on the sanctity of the call, on the sublimeness of a judge's call, but in one I disagree. If it is holiness and sublime, it should have existed before or after 2012. So, if I'm elected MP in 2014, I'm going to stand for the sanctity and dignity of the subpoena, but I'm not going to be critical and talk about the incredible sanctities and exaltations that have been going on. It was so sacred, it was so sublime that, for example, during the rule of the former regime party and celestial Serbia and the deceased had the right to judge. For example, that is how Judge Ljubisa Djuric, who died on 28 October 2009, informed the Ministry of Justice, in line with the sanctity of that call and the dignity of the call during the party of the former regime, that in the reform, i.e. in the deformity of the judiciary in 2009 and 2010, although he died on 28 October and was informed of it by the Ministry of Justice, could be elected Judge of the Basic Court in Požega at the end of December. Thus both celestial Serbia and the late Serbia got their representative in the judiciary. I guess that's in line with the party's commitment to the former regime and their representative who was elected on their list. The invitation is so sacred and so sublime, that both celestial Serbia and the late Serbia had the right to their representative. I suppose the Ministry of Justice has been informed, but the party of the former regime has not been notified, so since they have not deleted it from membership, membership has been more than the dignity and sanctity of the call, so I have been sacred and sublime, and only because it has not been deleted from the party's former regime has been automatically re-elected as a judge, although it has been deceased for two months. It would not surprise me, if they had ruled a little longer, if such a late judge had passed judgments by releasing members of the party of the former regime, to bring condemning to the issue of today's authorities, etc., it would not surprise me that he continued to judge only in case there was no change in 2012 and that these changes were not approved in the 2014 election. I agree that the judiciary should be independent. I also agree with the ideal that my esteemed colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, said that the choice of judges should be removed from this assembly and that the choice of judges who take office for the first time and all judges of the old High Council of the Judiciary, but I think I am not a lawyer, but I don't think Serbia is mature at this point, given that in 2009 and 2010. In fact, the judicial reform of the selection has been carried out and that people from the former regime's party have become in a certain way the reserve composition of the prosecutor's office and the judiciary, that those who are close to the influential members of the party of the former regime have had a better chance of reaching judicial functions, and especially those of the high ones. We have witnessed that an influential member or member of the former regime may place two brothers at the highest level, while some honest judges and honest judges who were tenants in a certain way, as our citizens say, hang from the functions they had earned by their work. So we were witnesses that the elected brothers, we were witnesses that they were elected party members, we were witnesses that the elected sons were from those who decided on positions in the judiciary, the judiciary, and the prosecution. I think that at this point, given this reform, the deformity that was made in 2009, Serbia is not yet mature for that kind of choice, and I think we will welcome that ideal once, as fellow Jovanovic said, but it is still too early, given that we still have a trial that is not within a reasonable time, that we have an incredible negligent judge, that from court to court there are very strange judgments, so sometimes they are different from some of the higher courts in Vojvodina or Serbia. I think behind us is a time when at least I hope justice and justice were measured by influence in certain parties, when measured by the amount of money, when he was winning with the goddess of justice by someone who puts more money on the sauce or who puts a fatter or better party book. I think by choosing new judges we go step by step to justice and justice, to make the rule of law by the rules, and that behind us is the time when power ruled, when power was without justice, and when justice was without power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24932	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, and let MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24933	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to begin by apologizing to you and Mr. Tomic for my intervention in the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hear the announcement why Mr. Tomic wasn't here. I apologize to you and Mr. Tomic, it's my oversight and my mistake about it. I wanted him to be there because I had a few questions about this choice and the findings. First question. From the explanation of this decision, we see that Nis was to fill ten vacancys, and today we have nine candidates in front of us. The choice, from what we've heard, was 175. Is it possible that out of 166 candidates none of them were qualified enough to fill that tenth place? What is this about, and why is there no proposal for ten candidates for the Court of Justice in Nis? Also, about the primary court judge in Sjenica, I don't know how familiar Mr. Tomic is, but we often have discussions here about the involvement of members of national minorities in state bodies. A Serb majority nation judge is elected this time for the judge in Sjenica. I do not know if this will create a problem with our colleagues and whether our fellow representatives of national minority parties will react because of this election and what may have been the structure among the other 17 candidates reported and, in general, the structure of judges in the Basic Court in Sjenica. Is there a problem with this guy? I agree that our role today is solemn and important and it is the conclusion of a process that I want to believe has been done in the most responsible way. We today need to decide on nine candidates, of 175, for the court in Nis, as far as we're told. We don't have any other information on those candidates that haven't passed, that we may be able to appreciate in a certain way whether these nine proposed are really the best. That's where we have to trust what the High Council suggested. Or, eight candidates, as far as we choose, 257, as proposed. We have very little data and they can fool you at first reading. The question is, what criteria do you take? If you take the average study rating criterion, you can see that there are various averages. From 9.32, 9.13, 9.21 to 7.13 or 6.97. Then I found it interesting, with one candidate for the judge, who had an average score of 7.13, so it raised my suspicion. I read more biography, and then I saw in the end that, let's say, since she's been to the Court of Appeal in Nis so far, that she's the first on the ranking list by the number of votes that all the judges of the Court of Appeal in Nis have given, which I believe is a good recommendation, that she has shown herself in her work and that that the average rating from her studies doesn't have to mean anything, as we all know in life. So I believe there's been a lot of analysis and data here. We were left here to confirm it or not. We have no objection specifically to any of the candidates proposed today, but we believe that it is time for the reform of the Constitution, the way judges are elected, that what is possible is more depolitical and that parliament does not have this role in the future that we have today, which is that we are practically just confirming the decision of the High Council of Justice, without being able to get to know all those candidates who have not passed that assessment that they should be and then we cannot give any greater or different opinions, but only to confirm or not this choice that is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24934	Thank you, Mr. Djurisic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24935	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs and MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are present today ahead of us with a decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the election of 18 judges who are first elected to the judicial office, for the purposes of basic courts in Nis, Novi Sad and Sjenica. The contest was announced by the High Judicial Council on 25 July 2014. After that, the High Council of the judiciary, of course in accordance with the law, formed a commission whose task was to consider all the applications, namely to consider the procedure for submitting applications, whether they were timely, submitted within the legal deadline, but even more important which this commission had, is its importance to conduct an interview with all those candidates who, in due time, submitted the necessary documentation. Surely the members of the commission who had the first interview, or interview, with all interested candidates, had high expertise and were certainly of the order of judges with high quality and years of experience. After that, and in accordance with Article 49. The Law on the Election of Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary asked for an opinion on the professionalism, the competence of judges, and that of the basic courts, i.e. the session of the basic courts and senior courts for those candidates who had working experience in basic courts, as well as the opinion of other competent institutions in which the candidates were registered. I find this unusually significant because it is the opinion of colleagues, those people, judges who can almost daily follow the work, results, quality, expertise, training and objectivity of these judges who have been candidates and who have submitted documentation for selecting judges in basic courts. Of course, respecting the Commission's absolute opinion on the selection of judges, as well as the opinion of the competent institutions and competent courts on expertise, competence and dignity, the High Council of the judiciary held on 20 February 2015 the selection of 18 judges and today these names are in front of us, MPs. What I particularly want to point out is that a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary has presented a detailed biography of each candidate. What is certainly behind the eye and what I consider to be the quality of these judges that are proposed, that is, above all, that they are young people, that they are people who have graduated from law school with the highest grades. Here are the grades 6.78, 9.38, but, of course, I haven't forgotten the judge who finished law school with an average score of 10. Also, it's about the judges who passed the judicial exam. It's about judges who mostly know foreign languages, mostly English. It is about judges who are motivated to be constantly educated and perfected because, of course, the quality of a judge depends on his permanent education and continuing motivation to improve in the area for which the judge is standing. We have seen that a number of these judges are in doctoral studies, that a number of these judges attended seminars, of course, from areas that are certainly related to that part-round judicial work they were doing, that a number of judges, of course, participated in projects that are certainly related to the improvement of the judicial system in Serbia. What I particularly want to express my satisfaction is that, in addition to the appointment of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, for a three-year period, besides the judges in Novi Sad and Nis, the appointed judge in Sjenica, and I hope that he will improve and improve the work of the judicial system with his expertise, his knowledge and his quality, as well as, of course, all these previous judges. On the judicial system that this government inherited almost now and I don't want to talk, I have repeatedly stressed that besides the economically destroyed country, this government has inherited another system that was almost the most destructive, which is unfortunately all of us and Serbia's citizens, the judicial system. I think this is one of the ways to improve the quality of the justice system. I wish to congratulate all the judges with the hope that they will work with their work and how they will work independently, that they will work highly professionally, that they will work highly professionally and that they will stick to one of the basic principles, and one of the basic principles is the trial within a reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24936	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) There's a word, please sign up, Mr. Tomic. Sign up one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24937	Thank you. I just want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that today in the small hall of this House, a certain number of judges that you have chosen at one of the previous sessions, so for this important and responsible function, have sworn in, so I, as vice president of the High Council of Justice, was present for a moment to congratulate these young colleagues. It's more like an explanation, and I thank you for the understanding that, of course, followed by my short absence from one side. On the other hand, we have recorded all, let me say, certain questions, the dilemmas that have arisen in this discussion that seem to me to reflect one desire for all to make the judiciary truly better, to make judges even more professional and to be more responsible, more up-to-date that I believe the wish not only of us from the High Council of Justice, but of all of us who are here and beyond what we would say. One of the questions was why were nine candidates elected for the Nish General Court if the competition was called for ten? It is true that we here today, as the High Council of the Judiciary, have proposed nine candidates for the reason that under the Law on Judges, parliament is authorized to discuss and elect candidates who are first elected for the judicial functions, and the tenth candidate who was elected by the competition was already a judge. It is a colleague, I think, Lidija Stosic, for which there was no need of course for her name to be found on this list, so that this figure is actually ten and will be selected in total by all ten candidates and that is an explanation why we are not also discussing a colleague who had already been in that judicial function in accordance with existing legal regulations. When it comes to the question of why a large number of candidates and findings have applied, especially when it comes to candidates who have applied for the primary court in Novi Sad, Nis, etc. It happens for a number of reasons. First of all, because of the fact that we all know that a long period of time here in parliament and there was no choice for judges who were first elected to the judge's office, on the one hand, resulting in a certain number of judicial assistants not having the opportunity, so to say, to apply in a longer period of time for certain judicial functions. Since it is about candidates who consider themselves to be professional, worthy and responsible for performing a judicial function, so a large number of them have applied for these competitions and not only for these competitions, but for all the competitions the High Council has recently called, a number of young people appear. I can express truly one great pleasure because I was also the president of the commission who held a conversation with these candidates to report a growing number and that among the candidates reported we have a really large number of extremely high-quality and professional, young professional associates, judicial assistants. If sometimes we find it difficult to choose from bad candidates someone who still has to be chosen as the best, then here is the problem for us to choose from a large number of extremely good candidates the best that is certainly easier for us and better to face such a problem than possibly some other problem. On the one hand, the fact is that this competition and many other competitions have also been attended by candidates who are not only in the judicial order, so to speak of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, in addition to applying from the order of judges of five candidates, then from the order of Judges 214 candidates, as I have said by a large number of young people, has applied from the order of ten candidates and from the order of the other 28 candidates. So, close to 40 candidates who are not from the judiciary, which also brings us joy because it's working here and we've seen that there are a lot of quality and good people, of course not everyone can be proposed because we're choosing only ten today. The example works, or nine for the New Sad Basic Court, but it is good to have a large number of people applying to these competitions showing the thinking of these young people and not only young people and not only young people, so people who are educated professional and who are qualified to perform these functions, because they report to perform a difficult, responsible but honorable function that captures their attention and want to perform that function, which is important because only in this way can we renew the judicial vessel with good and good and quality and associates and people who are not from the judiciary. When it comes to the issue concerning the choice of candidates, i.e. the proposal of candidates related to the basic court in Sjenica. Someone seemed to ask me a question – why some candidate gave up. You know, we, when we talk about candidates in these talks or how it is now modernly said interviews, ask the candidate what it is that bothers him and what's the reason he wants to perform this important, responsible and professional function, but we can't ask some candidate who just informed the High Council of the judiciary to give up his candidacy to ask him why. It is the right of candidates and to apply for a certain function, but it is the right of candidates and to give up. In that case, as we have now done when it comes to the election, or proposing a candidate for the basic court in Sjenica, it was our obligation to propose another candidate in this already scheduled contest. We have observed, or analyzed, the work and the results of the work and all that is related to these candidates in order to say in their comprehensiveness. So, not only, as someone here said, their success in school, then the results of the work that concerns the evaluation of work whether they come from the ranks of lawyers, whether they come from the ranks of judicial assistants, whether they come from certain institutions. We also know that according to the positive regulations, the work of all people working in certain institutions is worth it, and that is the relevant data that we also had in mind. Then we watched and analyzed years of internships, or work experience after a judicial, or judicial examination. Then, the college's opinion. I agree with someone's finding here that it's a college opinion that's very important. Especially when it comes to college judges who are experienced and have enough experience, follow war, most often when it comes to these judicial assistants and one statement that is most often secret where they actually give their opinion to certain candidates. If there is a secret statement among judges, it is an example of appeals courts involving judges who are 20.30 or close to 40 years of judicial training. If, here or anyway, in any other court, that judicial college in a secret vote is declared and told by a certain judicial assistant that it is a professionally responsible man, that it is a man who is worthy to perform one judicial function. If, in addition, this candidate had his biography, i.e. his work results in the last three years or in the preceding period of the evaluation, he was particularly assessed by the highest grades, if this candidate had enough years of working experience after a judicial examination and if that candidate had made one good impression on that interview and if we as a commission assessed that he was able to perform such a complex function, then that was the reason why we proposed this candidate to this National Assembly to this Parliament. The fact stands, and I have said today in the opening statement, that besides these candidates, which we have proposed today, and given the number of candidates that have applied, among them as you yourself said, there have been candidates and others who are truly with extraordinary results and the fact that many of them also deserve to be elected judges, of course at the next competitions, when we talk about these candidates. We have already recorded them and noted them, and in particular we will keep them in mind, and that is just another confirmation that the High Council of the judiciary, therefore, has access to this business in a very studioy way, is aware that of this young staff that we are proposing here now, and this parliament is chosen, depends exactly on the future of the Serbian judiciary. I want to say something also because of this parliament, but also because of the citizens that a certain number of judges are leaving the judiciary. A certain number of judges end their working lives for the fulfillment of conditions for the completion of the workday. Unfortunately, some also die doing this job, but besides that, we have a certain number of judges that we resolve at the High Council meetings of the judiciary, because they do not work in quality, do not work up-to-date and do not do their job responsibly. I especially want to point out that because the idea, as it comes from the law, is that when we choose and propose, actually as the High Council of the judiciary of certain personnel, we choose those who are the best. That they can really be in a position to improve the situation in the judiciary and that our judiciary is even better on the one hand, and that through disciplinary proceedings on the one hand, or through procedures of resolution, which were pretty much in the previous period and not only in the previous period, we will certainly continue to conduct such proceedings in the next period, in order to eliminate from the judiciary judges who do not do their job in quality, who do not work on time, who do not work on time, who do not work professionally, so that we can really get justice as we deserve, which means quality, up-to-date and responsible justice. I could talk a lot more about these candidates, but I believe that from this biography, from what we've seen today, you can conclude for yourself that it's about people, or colleagues who, I'm convinced by their work and their work results, not only will you deserve to be elected to a permanent judicial function after three years, but I believe that it will really be light in the judiciary in some future of ours, and that we will actually make our judiciary realistically both more up-to-date and more efficient and responsible. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24938	I would like to thank the motionary representative, Mr Miroljub Tomic, and I would like to conclude this single search on the proposal for a decision. Then we conducted a unique search of the National Assembly in the voting day to decide on a proposal for a decision in general. Thank you. You're free, you don't have to attend the session anymore. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLE 13. Article 3 Point 5) OF THE LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION AND VESSITATION SYSTEMS (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 72/09/52/11 and 55/13) You received proposals for authentic interpretation submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, 18 March 2015. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a review of the proposal for authentic interpretation. Does the proposing representative, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24939	Thank you, Madam President. On 15 January 2015, a group of 15 MPs requested the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(3), paragraph 5, addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Law on the basis of the education and education system. In the opinion of these MPs, there was no doubt about whether the terming of a teacher refers only to employees in pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions, or whether the calling of teachers also applies to the teaching staff of higher education institutions. So, colleges, i.e. higher schools of vocational studies, and also this group of 15 MPs felt that these doubts were particularly expressed in the submission of candidates for members of the National Educational Council in the order of those associations and societies that were taxed in Article 13 paragraph 5) of the Law on the founding of education and education systems, when not only teachers of primary and secondary schools were proposed, but also teachers of the university, i.e. higher schools of vocational studies. National MPs who submitted a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation noted that the teachers of the University were already represented in the National Educational Council, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13(3), point 1, 2, 3 and 4. The Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and the Members of the People themselves have proposed that this disputed point 5, in Article 13. The Law on the founding of an education and education system should be interpreted in such a way that only teachers and educators and professional associates employed in pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions are selected for members of the National Educational Council of the Association and of the societies I say taxaryly mentioned in this point 5. As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I would like to stress that the Committee had already delivered a letter to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 21 January 2015, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to give an opinion, the Government submitted its reply on 2 March 2015, and at its session on 18 March this year, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives submitted a proposal for authentic interpretation. You've got it in the material. So, at its session held on 18 March 2015, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives submitted a proposal, i.e. set out a proposal for the authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(3) of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in order to make it more clear to the MPs who are not members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives what the citizens following this transfer is, I just want to quote point 5) which has caused misunderstandings in this group of MPs. So, according to the provision of Article 13(3) of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the President and members of the National Educational Council are elected, among other things, to the point 5) of the Law on the Foundations of the Teachers, Teachers and Professional Associates, Representatives of the following Alliance, or Association: The Association of Teachers of Serbia, the Association of the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Serbian Teachers, the Association for Serbian Language and Literature, the Association for Foreign Languages of Serbia, the Association of Mathematicians of Serbia, the Association of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia, the Association of Graphicians, the Association of the Pedagogicians of Serbia, the Association for Physical Culture, the Psychological Society of Serbia, the Pedagogology of Serbia, the Pedagogogogogical Society of Pedagogues of Serbia, the Pedagogological Society of Serbia, the Pedagogology and the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia and the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia and the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia, the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia, the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of the Association of Serbia, At its session, the Committee gave the i.e. a proposal for authentic interpretation, in that sense, that the provision of Article 13(3) of point 5 should be understood so that representatives of the association are selected for the members of the National Educational Council, i.e. associations from the teachers, educators and professional associates employed in pre-school, primary and secondary schools from the list of candidates who submit associations and companies that are taxed in this Member of the Law. I think the proposal for authentic interpretation is very clear, concise and divulge any doubt as to how this, according to a group of MPs, is a disputed point 5, disputed from the point of view of legal interpretation, so point 5. Law on the basis of the education and education system. So to repeat once again, the Committee has taken the view that under "teachers" within the meaning of Article 5(3) of Article 13(3). The law on the foundation of education and education systems should be understood by those who are employed in pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions, so in pre-school institutions, primary schools and secondary schools. As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I hope that this proposal of authentic interpretation will come to the support of all MPs in the National Assembly, that it will enable the full establishment of the National Educational Council, and that by adopting this authentic interpretation, it will certainly be improved the work of this very important institution in which teachers from all segments of the Serbian education system are represented, and we have taken the view that this point 5 actually refers to those who are employed in pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24940	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? First comes Annamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24941	Thank you. Dear Presidents, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(5). The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and, as we have heard from the representatives, those provisions taxively cites societies, alliances, or associations which propose to the National Assembly a list of candidates from which the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society of the National Assembly is elected by the President, or members of the National Educational Council, at a time of six years. What is important to consider is that this authentic interpretation is adopted by an urgent procedure, namely, in March of this year, the mandate of the members of the National Educational Council, and when the candidates were appointed, there was an incorrect interpretation, in our opinion of the incorrect interpretation of this provision, and associations and alliances, or societies listed in point 5 were appointed and professors from various universities. Of course, it would not be a problem in itself if university professors, i.e. higher education institutions were named, but the problem is that they are already at other points of the same provision, i.e. point 1), 2), 3), 4), i.e. 7) are also taxed, i.e. the lists of their candidates and thus deny the chance for teachers who are employed in primary and secondary schools. To remind ourselves briefly, the six-year mandate of the National Education Council began in March 2009, when it was elected to the President of Prof. Desanka Radunović, i.e. 23 members of the Council were elected and until 10 March 2015 when the last session of the National Educational Council was held in this meeting, the Council held an average of more than one session a month and brought in various strategic documents that are extremely important for education and education, such as development, measures, indicators, guidelines and proposals, and all with the aim of monitoring the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education, i.e. artistic education and education. This shows why it would be extremely important for the work of the National Educational Council to be attended by educators and teachers and professional associates working in everyday practice with children in the process of education and education. I also recall that according to Article 5 of the same law, the applicants of the list set out in Article 3, are obliged to submit lists of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, four months before the end of the term of office, which they did, however, because of this inconceivability, there was a stalemate and an unnamed National Educational Council on time. A group of 15 MPs, these were members of the Education Committee, submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of members we are now talking about, with the aim of clarifying the uncertainty about the term ‘teacher’, since this term is used as a rule for persons employed in primary and secondary education institutions, as well as for teaching staff employed in higher education institutions. As we have already heard from Mr Martinovic, this misunderstanding was particularly visible when, in the order of the Alliance of Associations, that is, the societies listed in section 5 were appointed as teachers of primary and secondary schools and teaching staff of higher education institutions. We welcome the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly has explained this provision in such a way as to understand that associations and societies that are taxed at point 5 propose educators, teachers and professional associates who are employed in pre-school, primary and secondary schools. It would also be important for the proposing members of the Board on Education of the National Assembly to propose to the Committee on Education of the National Assembly several candidates, as the law also requires in the same article in paragraph 6, which is not now the subject of this authentic interpretation. I think it is extremely important to note that in this position 6, I quote - the list in Article 3 of this article contains more candidates than the number of members elected; and this would be extremely important because there would be no situation similar to what happened in the case of the National Council for Higher Education, when the proposings proposed exactly as many candidates by a particular institution, i.e. a specific proposal may be in the Council, so that the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, the Information Society could only establish and confirm the mandate of those candidates, instead of being as prescribed by law to propose three members instead of for example, and the Committee to use its competence and consider proposals, i.e. candidates, and by voting, selecting candidates for which the Education Committee considers to be the most competent, whose mandate in the Council will be confirmed. This recent experience of the Committee with the National Council for Higher Education and this need for authentic interpretation proves that it is also necessary to revise, or amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, with the aim of removing, among other things, the above and similar misunderstandings about the provisions of the law, and, upon the announcement of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, this should happen soon and soon. I would just like to point out in the end that the SVM parliamentary group in voting day, of course by voting to adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24942	The word is Milena Bycanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24943	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think that compared to yesterday when the Committee on Education of the People's Republic of Serbia had a rather difficult meeting with our colleagues, members of the union and the Minister of Education, when we talked about the strike and this grim material position, I think this session and this moment are talking about something much better and something that should certainly improve the system of education, and therefore the functionality of this country at all. Namely, as a member of the Committee on Education and as a member of the SDPS, me and my parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 13(5). The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System for many reasons, and one of the basic reasons, other than those which my colleague Maria Vicek explained in a very good way, which enables the resolution of the doubt to end by establishing the National Educational Council and thus allowing his work in full capacity and with the tasks set before him. Personally, I think this Law allows for the affirmation of teaching professions and this is a kind of contribution to the affirmation, because the uncertainty of whether teachers and to what extent can be represented in the National Educational Council in relation to their colleagues, who come from the order of high school institutions, must not really be a dilemma, because the system of education of the Republic of Serbia is comprehensive. It's made up of four pieces. It makes it preschool, primary, secondary, high school education, and we all have the same assignment in kindergarten stages, up to high school institutions, we all do everything we can to ensure that education goals are realized and that young people who are just standing on the path of life are allowed to be educated, competent, conscious, safe and, of course, productive citizens, both in their personal lives and in the lives of the community. What's very important to me, and I've already mentioned in some ways the affirmation of the teacher's profession. I'm afraid our public still doesn't recognize enough what teachers are doing, because in the sea of the problems that exist, it's mostly all the dissatisfaction that comes to the back of teachers, and I would conclude that it's because they're teachers of the central personality of the educational system. Of course schools exist because of children, but those children at school have to wait and someone has to equip them with all the knowledge and skills they need for life. Therefore, the teacher is there every day on his work assignment, in an environment that I cannot say is friendly at this point, in many challenges that require that the teacher each day gives full and fair evaluations, decisions, to deliver knowledge related to communication with his students, with parents, with school administration, with education policy makers, with wider public opinion. Therefore, it is a great burden that my colleagues, indeed the largest number of them, carry in one completely quality and excellent way. I think this is an opportunity, by adopting this proposal of authentic interpretation, to give these many people the opportunity to make their career plans, to support them when we choose members of the National Educational Council and thus motivate those who want to be educational workers, to see the way of their development, to see their motivation for professional training and thus, finally, to always give the quality of the system and life that we live. Of course, in front of teachers, or in front of schools, whose absolute component is, as teachers, teachers, daily major problems, begin with this difficult material status, through not exactly satisfactory quality of experts, through a number of problems affecting the various characteristics of students and all these problems teachers have to solve, and by the way, very often, they get contradictory messages from education policy makers, change attitudes, new experiences do not differ quickly and efficiently with the old and the teachers are ultimately expected to satisfy all this, to be absolutely functional and to achieve the perfect result. It's an extremely difficult task, but what these people, these colleagues, who will be proposed, because they certainly deserve among the possible members of the National Educational Council in the teachers' ranks, is somewhere defining and qualified in all of this a special leadershipal ability, or line they have. I'd say teachers are everyday leaders in their classrooms. They make decisions every day. They daily make serious planning, organization, and create an authentic environment for the achievement of each student. It's an extremely difficult, extremely complicated, extremely sensitive job. These colleagues of mine do so with numerous results that their students achieve in competitions, in daily activities, in their ability to motivate them to a high-quality work, to seek knowledge. The colleagues who write textbooks, who create seminars, who in different ways contribute to the creation of a school's working environment, creating either a school development plan or an annual plan or whatever. These people in the best possible way confirm what should be a characteristic of all people who are engaged in public work, which is responsibility, entrepreneurship, clear attitudes, values, clear and pure morals and above all a great commitment to learning. Remember, leaders learn for life. Teachers learn for life and try to direct their students to that direction and direction. So I really hope that all those who apply for a member of the National Educational Council, by the criteria that must be absolutely clear, correct and honest, will be chosen at the National Educational Council, by not wanting to end with someone, to say, the sad sighting, but somehow I hear more and more often that many of them from education, who are really successful, see their asylum from schools in the National Educational Council, wanting to see from all the troubles they face daily, and without sufficient support from the system, are tortured. I don't want these great people from the classrooms, from the executive positions, from the point of view of professional associates with that motivation to go to the National Educational Council, because I think we're going to have a lot of problems that neither these people, who are the fins of the education system, will be able to do in the best way with their ambition elsewhere. Also, I'm sorry to expect somewhere that there will be problems in the relationship between understanding of teachers of higher education institutions, who certainly think that school teachers, I know, are not sufficiently educated, that they don't have enough expertise. I don't think that's what this profession is supposed to do to itself. We can't be so opportunistic about each other. We came from the same system, so I guess from the same system of values we support that system and its quality and, of course, our beliefs. I think in a good system, functional, which is clearly measured there's room for everyone, and the place for everyone is for the best. In this regard, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law which has helped resolve this dilemma, and I would like these discussions to be more frequent in our National Assembly, in what sense? In terms of providing quality support, supporting ambition, supporting what is best and best possible can provide a more successful future, especially for students, and then for all of us because we will share this future and that life with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24944	The word is of Alexander Jerkov, the messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. More or less, all Mr. Martinovic said was an explanation why I would ask all MPs to accept such an authentic interpretation of the law. It is only to be said, he did not mention that these 15 MPs who addressed the Committee on Law with a request to propose authentic interpretation are actually members of the Education Committee. This was our joint initiative, given that when the National Educational Council was established last time, it proved to be a problem that indeed all associations that should propose under this point 5 of the National Educational Council proposed mainly university professors, not teachers in primary and secondary schools and educators in preschool institutions who still have more touch points with primary and secondary education, which in the rest of the National Educational Council and in the field of education. It is important to say that if this Assembly adopts such authentic interpretation of the bill does not mean that university professors at the National Educational Council will not be, the National Educational Council has 43 members and this group of promoters for whom we now adopt authentic interpretation is just one of 13 groups of proposing candidates for members of the National Educational Council. In the first three groups, there are now university professors, since point 1. says three members are elected from the ranks of academics, regular university professors from the list of candidates submitted by SANU and one Serbian Matica member from the order of regular university professors from the list of candidates submitted by the Serbian Matica. So that's where we already have the professors of the university. Point 2 says four members of the Belgrade University teachers are elected from a list of candidates submitted by the University of Belgrade. It's also about university professors. Point 3 says -- one member from the order of teachers of other universities whose founder is Republika Srpska, i.e. the AP University of Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Pristina, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, University of Art in Belgrade and University of Novi Pazar, from a list of candidates submitted by these universities. So, even if the National Assembly, and I hope that this will be the case, adopts this proposal of authentic interpretation as explained by Aleksandar Martinovic, this does not mean that there will be no university professors in the National Educational Council, on the contrary, only to ensure that there are teachers in primary and secondary schools and teachers in preschool institutions. Of course, this is very important, given that these are people who meet up with very important things on a daily basis with the National Educational Council, because the university professor usually has relationships with primary and secondary schools so much that they used to go to elementary and high school, but practically, if they didn't, he would add. Atlagic, pedagogues, they don't actually deal with these things that the National Educational Council is dealing with. The competencies of the National Educational Council are unusually important for the state of our education. It is said in this Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System that the National Educational Council under one: monitors and analyses the state of education at all levels of its competence, in line with the system of education with European principles and values. Under two: determines the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education. Under three: participates in the preparation of an education strategy based on established guidelines for the development of pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education. Under four: consider, take views and give an opinion to the ministry in the process of passing laws and other acts that regulate issues of importance for the field of education and education. Under five: lays down general and specific standards and achievements, competence standards for teachers and educators and professional associates and their professional development, standard competences of directors, quality standards of textbooks and teaching tools, standards of conditions for achieving specific programmes in the field of education and education, standards of quality of work of the institution, provides the basis for pre-school education and education programmes, curricula and basic and secondary education and education programmes, part of the curricula and secondary vocational education and education programmes and adult education for general educational subjects and the basis of the educational programme. Under six: sets out the proposal for a final examination programme of primary education and education, general and art graduates in accordance with this special law. Furthermore, it determines the need for new textbooks and brings up a plan of textbooks and teaching means of pre-school, primary and secondary general and artistic education and education, general classes of secondary vocational education and education of adults. It monitors, analyzes and recommends that reducing child and student depletion from the education system and sets out proposals for measures to continue education of people who have left the system. It makes recommendations for education and complementary education of teachers, educators and professional associates to the council responsible for issues of higher education development. It provides consultation and obtains opinions from representatives of relevant social marginalised groups and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. I don't think there's a person in this room who won't agree on how fundamentally important the National Educational Council is for our education system. Now prepare for the next fact I'm going to tell you. Since 18 March 2015, we have no National Educational Council. We do not have the National Educational Council because the members of this National Educational Council have expired their mandate, and this Assembly, you gentlemen sitting here today and making up most of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have not adopted the authentic interpretation of the laws that the Members of the Education Committee have sent to you on 15 January and the Republic of Serbia since 18 March do not have the National Educational Council. The mandate for 22 members of the National Education Council has expired. This means that the National Educational Council does not have a quorum to work with, it cannot decide on any of these unusually important things to deal with. To make things worse, it won't happen in the next three months because today, when we adopt this authentic interpretation, the National Assembly needs all these authorized proposings to send an authentic interpretation, to tell them that the proposals they've sent so far, and they've all done their job and they've all sent out proposals and they haven't been good, which means they all need to meet again, to hold their congregations. These are the Union of Associations of Teachers of Serbia, the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Serbian Language and Literature, the Association of Foreign Languages of Serbia, the Association of Mathematicians, the Association of Historyians, Serbian Geographical Society, the Association of the Association of Physicians of Serbia, the Serbian-chemical Society, the Serbian-Biological Society, the Union of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogists of Serbia, the Association of Fine Arts and Pedagogues of Physical Culture, the Association of Serbian Psychologists, the Pedagogical Society of Serbia, the Sociological Society of Serbia and the Association of Defectologists of Serbia. All of them should now again hold their congregations, instruct their candidates in accordance with this new authentic interpretation that we have now adopted. Given that the same member has been defined that each list should contain more candidates than the number of members elected. This means that the committee should hold talks with all these candidates, continue to retain a number of candidates who will refer to the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly adopts those, or chooses those who eventually become members of the National Educational Council. Given that this is a very complicated process, the law stipulates that all these authorised applicants should deliver their candidates four months before the mandate expires to members of the National Educational Council because the process is predicted to last for four months only in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without talking about how long it takes them to organise the congregations of their societies and to go beyond them an extremely complicated process of running. Well, then our election process should take four months. We'll do it as soon as we can, but even if we do it tomorrow, it's too late because the mandate for the 22 members of the National Educational Council expired on 18 March. On my own behalf, given that I was told that on behalf of the board I could not do so, I apologized to all those who gave proposals to the candidates for the members of the National Educational Council within the legal time limit and told them that because of the impunity of the Assembly, he was not in a position to respect his legal obligation and to elect members of the National Educational Council. My question to Mr. Martinovic as the representative of this authentic interpretation is - what happened to this paper that we sent you from January 15th to March 18th? It's been, Mr. Martinovic, 85 days, actually 64 days before you sent him to us here in the Assembly, after that, 21 days until he was now on the agenda. You yourself said that a group of 15 MPs sent you this request on January 15th and that you immediately acted on it we would be able to elect members of the National Educational Council on time. We heard informally, and this was later confirmed when the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia came strangely to us on 2 March 2015 on something with which it had absolutely nothing to do with, since it was clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure as well as the procedure of giving authentic interpretation of the law, you were obviously, not obviously, but by what we saw from the Government, sent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which gave it back to the Assembly on 2 March, or as it was proposed. From March 2nd to March 18th, a time passed again, when you didn't, I don't know what you were doing with it for 16 days, and at the end of March 18th, until today, a certain time has passed in which Serbia does not have a National Educational Council, that is, from the moment that 15 of us, who are members of the Committee, have referred this request to you until today when we discuss it has been 85 days. Mr. Martinović, Article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia describe what the procedure for authentic interpretation of the law looks like. Well, he says -- the proposal for the adoption of a detailed interpretation of the law can be submitted by the Constitution by the authorised legislator, a group of 15 MPs, is the Constitution-authorized legislator of the law. If the committee responsible, and Article 48 defines that it is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, it shall assess that the proposal referred to in Article 1 has been justified, it shall prepare a proposal for authentic interpretation and shall submit it to the applicant and to the National Assembly which decides on it. Mr. Martinovic, what was this proposal doing in the government of the Republic of Serbia for 64 days? Did the RS government submit a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law? Is the Serbian Government the National Assembly that decides on the proposal or did you simply send it so that it would not happen by chance that someone in the Assembly would decide something without being asked about it by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This would be a problem all if the government of the Republic of Serbia had responded in record time and had not caused this delay, but since the government of the Republic of Serbia was directly due to 64 days during which the proposal stood without any reason in someone's drawer in the RS government, the mandate of the National Education Council expired during that time. It also happened with the National Council for Higher Education, which we chose with a smaller delay than a month and a half. The same will happen with the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, given that the National Council for Higher Education, which should initiate the procedure for selecting a new composition of the accreditation, quality control commission, is too late with its formation. So these are the only things that concern us here in this congregation. You must tell us what this proposal was doing in the government for 64 days, and why in the world did you send a proposal for an authentic interpretation submitted by a group of 15 MPs to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it is directly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I will read again, I see that you are taking your head, Article 194 of Chapter 10 – the procedure for authentic interpretation of the law – a proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law can be submitted by the Constitution by an authorised legislator. You received a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law by a group of 15 MPs on 15 January 2015. If the committee responsible, it shall be you, in accordance with Article 48. ... . (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: It's not me. I'm the chairman of the board. This is your board... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: This is not my committee. )......................................................................................................... The committee where you're the president. You see...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24946	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't speak to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24947	I'm speaking to a proposaling representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24948	You're right. You're right, but if you're going to cause a replica. Please don't. Mr. Martinovic, please wait until the presentation is complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24949	I won't do it anymore. Therefore, Article 194(2) reads - if the committee responsible, and Article 48 says that the relevant Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which examines the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation of the law and makes up the proposal for authentic interpretation of the law, assesses that the proposal set out in Article 1 of this Article is justified, prepares a proposal for authentic interpretation and delivers it to the applicant, it is the same group of 15 MPs, and the National Assembly that decides on it. Where is mentioned here by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in which our proposal for authentic interpretation sits for 64 days, which causes a direct delay in the term of office of members of the National Educational Council at a time when we should adopt a law on textbooks where it is the direct jurisdiction of the National Educational Council to give an opinion to this bill, at a time when we have a five-and-a-half-month strike, where it is the direct jurisdiction of the National Educational Council to discuss such matters, at a time when it is necessary to decide what a small graduation will look like, or final exams for the end of primary and secondary schools, is the direct jurisdiction of the National Educational Council? I tell you that it will be two or three months before all these associations are able to send their proposals again, which they have already done in accordance with their legal obligation and that we will not be able to adopt new members and the new composition of the National Educational Council for three or four months, which means by the end of the school year? This is why the National Education Council has found its mandate solely guilty by the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, and that is, the shame of this Assembly because of your impunity, because of your need for something that has nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the mandate has expired, and the Assembly has not fulfilled its obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24950	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. Replica, two minutes, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24951	It's not a replica, I answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24952	As an authorised representative of the motionor?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24954	I thought you were picking up the line, since you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24955	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've really worked very hard to be extremely politically neutral in this opening presentation, unreserved and, I might say, partyless. I was really surprised that Miss Jerkov reacted this strongly, providing a whole series of information that is not true, which is being deceived by citizens, and who are being deceived by all those institutions that are to be proposed by members, i.e. candidates for members of the National Education Council. Since it's a matter of Miss Jerkov, whom I respect and respect as my colleague and lady, I'm not going to react with that kind of intensity, and I don't think there's any need for that, but I want to point out a few facts. Miss Jerkov, the procedure for authentic interpretation of the law has been defined in two members of the Rules of Procedure, not in one. So Chapter 10 contains Article 194, which you have partially quoted, but it also contains Article 195, which you, for my entirely unknown reasons, have been silent. Article 195 states - the procedure for authentic interpretation shall be followed accordingly by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure under the procedure for the adoption of the law, unless otherwise specified by these Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the procedure for authentic interpretation of the law shall be applied accordingly to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the procedure for the adoption of the law. We are in a situation where the proposal for authentic interpretation of the law has been given by a group of 15 MPs. So imagine the situation that the bill was given by a group of 15 MPs or that only one MP had given it. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the procedure for the adoption of the law shall apply accordingly. This is in line with this situation, Ms Jerkov, to apply Article 152, paragraph 1 - Proposal for a Law addressed to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, immediately upon receipt, to the Members of the National Assembly, the Competent Committee and the Government, if it is not the Proposer. So, I had an obligation as chairman of the Committee, by the way, first I am not a committee, you said – you as a committee, I am Aleksandar Martinović, I am not the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, nor is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives my Committee. So I have nothing personal in this assembly. It's the Committee of the National Assembly that I'm president of, but it's not my committee, but good. By accepting your terminology, this committee of mine, under Article 152(1), had an obligation to deliver to the Government of the Republic of Serbia a proposal for authentic interpretation of Article 13 paragraph 5. Law on the basis of the education and education system. So, I had an obligation. I would have broken the Rules of Procedure if I hadn't done so. Why? Because the proposal for authentic interpretation was based on MPs and are applied accordingly and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in force in situations where the bill is not submitted by the Government, but submitted by MPs. I had an obligation to deliver an opinion to the Government on a proposal for authentic interpretation of this provision of the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I told you chronologically, I can repeat, I don't see why this rage in your discussion. On 15 January 2015, you submitted a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, and I signed a letter from the National Assembly asking the Government for an opinion, and on January 21st, 2015. You can't say I slept. So, January 21st, I delivered, i.e. A letter from the National Assembly to request an opinion was filed at the government office. The government submitted its reply within a relatively short period of time, on 2 March 2015, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which you had the opportunity to attend, and you attended, set out a proposal for authentic interpretation at a session held on 18 March 2015. I think we reacted quite quickly, and we as the Committee and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What you're trying to do now is to blame for the non-constitution of the National Educational Council in full composition to the SNS parliamentary group, which won't come after your hand, and here's why. If you have had a vague provision of Article 13(3), point 5. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, if it was unclear to you on 15 January, was likely unclear to you both on 15 December 2014 and 15 November and 15 October 2014. You knew, as chairman of the Committee, that the time for selecting members of the National Educational Council was approaching, right, and something was unclear to you. My personal opinion is that there is nothing vague here, but I still retain the right to be my opinion alone, and I will explain it. So, you on January 15, when it is obvious that we will come and the timeline, you send a letter to the National Assembly to give the authentic interpretation of Article 13(3), point 5. Law on the basis of the education and education system. Then you say it takes us 60 days, 90 days, until this alliance meets, this society and so on. Now I ask you - why did you not send the proposal for authentic interpretation of the Law to the National Assembly three months ago or six months ago, would you not wait on January 15th? No one from your sleeve can give you authentic interpretation. The essence of democracy is respect for procedure. The procedure is very clear. You, again, have, for my completely unknown reasons, had the intention to deceive the MPs, to deceive these institutions that should give candidates for members of the National Educational Council, because you said – there is Chapter 10 in the Rules of Procedure, then you quoted two or three of the articles of Article 194, and you kept silent that there was a member of the 195, who obliges me as the chairman of the Committee to seek the opinion of the Government, because this is the same situation as if the bill were given by an MP rather than by the Government. I was obliged to refer your proposal to the government, so that the government would give an opinion. As you can see, the government has been seduced on January 21st, and the government has given its opinion on March 2nd. So, there is no deadline breach here, nor when it comes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, nor when it comes to the Government, but you are now trying, as chairman of the Resorship Committee, to transfer the responsibility to me, whether to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, or to, as you say, the Assembly majority. I think it's extremely politically incorrect. If it's anyone's fault, it's your fault. I can't understand that there's something vague about January 15th, and it was clear to you on December 15th or November 15th. You can't convince me of that. I said at the very beginning of my presentation, in the opening part, I tried to be as objective as possible, impartial as well as to the MPs, the citizens, those who follow this transmission, I simply say the proposal for authentic interpretation of the bill. I really abstained from giving my personal opinion on whether you were really vague or you reached out to this mechanism of giving an authentic opinion because you put yourself in a position not to maintain... Otherwise, it is not said to honor the deadlines, since you are constantly reminding us of the language, it is not said to honor the deadlines, but it is said to keep the deadline. Here, there is a colleague, Pavicevic, a dictionary of the Serbian Mother, there is no word to honor. That, too, is what your esteemed colleague, Komic, may advise you on. So you're right to keep up the deadline. When you realized you couldn't keep up with the deadline, then you better figured out a proposal for authentic interpretation, and in your opinion, we should have, when I say both the Committee and the Government and this National Assembly, within two days to give you an authentic interpretation. Of what? Something that I don't think is at all controversial. Why isn't it controversial? Here's why. At the National Education Council, I said, representatives of all segments of the Serbian education system are represented. It is indisputable that the National Education Council, under Article 13(3), points 1, 2, 3 and 4, is represented by teachers of higher education institutions. Higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia are universities and higher schools of vocational studies. Right? In Articles 27 and 116. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System writes nicely that preschool education and education is performed by a preschool institution, primary education and primary school education, and secondary education and secondary education. The names of teachers in these educational institutions are: in preschool education and education educator, and in primary, or secondary school teacher and professional associate. So it's pretty clear. I don't know what was vague about that. This is my personal opinion now. So, I don't know what's unclear here, so you need an authentic interpretation of the National Assembly, when it's very clear from Articles 27 and 116 of the quoted law that when it comes to saying – educator, teacher, professional associate, it can only be those who are employed either in kindergarten or in primary school or in high school. Have you ever heard of a teacher in college? Have you heard of an expert associate at the university? You didn't hear? You, Mr. Veselinovic, have heard of the tutor? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Expert Associate. I'm surprised, Mr. Veselinovic. Are you a college teacher, an associate, an expert associate, what are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24956	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't argue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24957	Article 62(2) says that teaching staff within the meaning of the Law on Higher Education are teachers, researchers and associates, not expert associates. So, you DS gentlemen, from an independent or whatever your name is, the Democratic Party, the New Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party of the SDS, you don't know that there are no educators or professional associates in colleges. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: There are. That might be in some colleges where you teach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24958	Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away, please. Mr. Martinovic, don't flaunt with the MPs in the benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24959	So, the educator, teacher and professional associate exist only in kindergarten, elementary school and high school. That provision of the law is clear to me. But you, in order to avoid the National Assembly noticing your failure, as chairman of the Committee, have made a proposal to give an authentic interpretation of something that I think again, I say it is my own opinion, it is not controversial and it is clear that all these institutions, all these societies and alliances were obliged to propose those employed in pre-school education and education institutions or primary and secondary schools. If they didn't do it, and it's possible that they didn't, you, as chairman of the Committee, should have sent them a memo in which you would, for example, said – please, give me candidates who work in kindergarten, who work in primary school or who work in high school, and do not give me candidates who are professors, extraordinary or regular, because they are already represented in the National Educational Council on other grounds, or on the basis of which it is prescribed in Article 13(3), points 1, 2, 3 and 4. It's quite clear. So now you want responsibility with you to move to the congregation majority. You say, "It's your fault." Who's to blame here? It's my fault that I gave you an authentic interpretation, and that's how you asked for it, in a matter that's in me, as a pretty bad and uneducated lawyer, more or less completely clear. So there's nothing controversial here. What is disputed is, I will take this opportunity to say, today, Mr. Becic, a session of the Vojvodina Assembly is held. At the meeting of the Vojvodina Assembly, there is a proposal for a circuit assembly decision, which imposes an obligation on colleges whose founder is the AP Vojvodina to allow the submission of admission exams in the languages of national minorities. I don't want anyone to get me wrong, but the Higher Education Act says it's a matter that's in the sole jurisdiction of higher education institutions. If this circuit assembly decision is adopted today... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Is this the topic? Yes, that's the subject, Miss Jerkov. If this province's assembly decision is adopted today in the Vojvodina Assembly, it will be a direct attack on the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because the government run by Bojan Pajtic and DS usurped the responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed by the Law on Higher Education and suspends the autonomy of the university, i.e. a university founded by the AP Vojvodina. I think it's a great shame for DS, for Bojan Pajtic, who is also an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad and who should protect the autonomy of the university. You're trying, for this, for a few months of power left, to privatise the malts of higher education institutions in the Vojvodina territory of which is the founder of the AP Vojvodina. It's, like, a topic I'd run for office to talk about. That's what I find controversial. What you said is not at all questionable. More or less everyone knows, except for Mr. Veselinović, that there are no educators in colleges, there are no professional associates. They're in kindergartens and they're in primary and secondary schools. So there's no guilt on the board, there's no guilt here, there's no guilt on the government, there's no guilt on the assembly majority. The assembly is going to adopt this authentic interpretation today, it's not at all controversial. It is not disputed because it is not a disputed provision for which you have sought authentic interpretation, but you are now trying to transfer your failure to the congregational majority. That, as you can see, didn't work out for you. Instead of looking for the culprit in another, look for him in you, on your board, because there's been a failure on your board. Instead of running the haranga for months, for example. against Minister of Interior Nebojska Stefanovic, you would be better off on the board dealing with this topic instead of making up an affair about the fake doctorate of Neboja Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24960	Mr. Martinovic, please don't open topics that aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24961	And in the summer of 2014, this provision, Miss Jerkov, was probably unclear to you. Why didn't you ask for an authentic interpretation then, but you asked for six months after you entered the time seal? Then you walked into the cane and you said, "It's SNS' fault." No, it's your fault and it will be your fault and it will be the DS and the criminal regime in Vojvodina if this province's decision is adopted today at the Vojvodina Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24962	Mr. Martinovic, I don't think it's right for you to speak out of the question like this. Next time I'll give you a warning and it'll be a precedent to give the authorized representative a warning. Here you go. The People's Parliament of Mr. Alexander Jerkov reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24963	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I can't really answer to this Duke's Assembly. I think the SNS has best shown that she's the only one here who has a private university in this country that's issuing PhDs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24964	Ms. Jerkov, you have received a replica of Mr. Martinovic's exposure. Do not open new themes. I won't let that happen. Please, if you would like to respond to what Mr. Martinović has told you, please, if you do not want to, there are debaters who would like to talk about the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24965	Thank you. What worries little is that we have now had opportunities in Mr Martinovic's speech to hear that we have a proposing representative who doesn't think at all that it is necessary to adopt the proposal he himself made and who, on behalf of the Committee, represents. Why didn't we start with this? First, I think it's 85 days more than enough for the Assembly to give authentic interpretation. Second, why didn't we get into this process sooner? Because the election process for the National Education Council candidate has not started before. We could only react when we saw that they were proposing people who are professors of the university, not people who are teachers in schools, and a little answer -- you know, you can't suggest this, but you have to suggest someone else because Mr. Martinovic thinks it's clear, it doesn't work that much. If you don't want to defend the suggestion of authentic interpretation given...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24966	Miss Jerkov, don't speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24967	I'm sorry. The President of the Committee does not have to be authorised. There's always a way that the powers of another member, if they don't agree with what the board has adopted, but it's really unusual for us to have a proposing representative here to explain that what he suggested here is actually unnecessary. Mr Martinovic simply did not read Article 155, the final position – if the committee in charge does not submit a report, or government opinion on the bill, in our case of authentic interpretation, the bill will also be discussed without that report, or opinion. On the first day, on the second day, on the third day, on the 64th day, on the 85th day, the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not deliver an opinion on why the proposal for authentic interpretation was not found on the agenda of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24968	Time. I thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, after you here, I think, honored me with a title of professor, I believe on the merits I have...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24970	I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24971	... and these merits concern probably my performances in the National Assembly, Mr. Martinovic, in his speech just now, Mr. Martinovic, confirms, has named me here the best-known speaker of the Serbian language, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Martinovic said there is no verb "respect" recorded in the Serbian Language Dictionary. And of course, I, as the best knowledgeer of the Serbian Dictionary, in the opinion of Mr. Martinovic, what am I doing? I'm opening the Serbian Language Dictionary, the 2007 Mother of Serbian edition, gentlemen, and I'm coming across two verbs. One imperfect verb is “to respect” and “to respect” and then explain what it means, and the other is an imperfect verb“ to respect, ” which means to maintain, fill, e.g. a promise or a request. So, Mr. Bečić, just so you can pass on to Mr. Martinovic, because there is no direct address in our National Assembly, that in the Serbian language Dictionary of the New Sad Mother, and Mr. Bečić and Mr. Martinovic, there is an incomplete verb "to respect", which means to me that Mrs. Jerkov was right, to adhere to the Serbian language Dictionary, and that Mr. Martinovic did not have one piece of information regarding this reading, dear Mr. Bečić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24972	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Replica, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Please, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tell me, Mr. Pavicevic, if at all possible, what is the noun of that verb to honor? Respect? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: There are no nouns of every verb. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24974	Please, Miss Jerkov. Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24975	But it doesn't matter that much now. What is more important, I understand that MPs of the former regime do not understand the interpretation of the law. I can understand that and it's legitimate. One who's not a lawyer doesn't have to understand that. But what I can't understand and accept is that MPs of the former regime can't count. From January 15th to March 2nd, there are no 85 days, so there are no 85 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24976	Mr. Markovic, Miss Jerkov, refrain from throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24977	I don't mind, Mr. Becic. You don't have to warn Miss Jerkov at all. So on January 15th, you submitted a proposal, January 21st, a letter from the National Assembly was filed by the government, the government delivered an opinion on March 2nd, March 18th, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs set out a proposal for authentic interpretation. Now, you tell me -- how is it possible that from January 15th, when you submitted the proposal, by March 2, when the government gave its opinion, it would have been 85 days? Here you asked us – what did the government do for 85 days? It's not 85 days from January 15 to March 2, and it's not gonna go with you, Miss Jerkov, or a hundred dictionaries or anything. It's your fault the National Educational Council wasn't elected in full. Just one more sentence. I'm behind what I signed. So it's undeniably an authentic interpretation. It's undeniable, because nothing here would be unclear to me. I'm behind this, I'm gonna vote for this. But I just want to tell the MPs and the citizens that this is a political game, that the ball is transferred to the field of the assembly majority and that we are interpreting something that, in fact, is not necessarily authentic interpretation of the law because the thing here, in my opinion, is quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24978	I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Ms. Jerkov, just because Mr. Martinovic has exceeded the time allowed for the replica, you will now be entitled to the replica, otherwise I would not allow it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to thank Mr. Martinovic, from whom we learn things here. We first had a chance to learn that there is no verb that exists. Then we had a chance to hear that from every verb there must be a verb noun, which is one novelty in linguistics. Then we learned that today is, in fact, March 2nd. So today is not April, as we think, today is actually March 2nd. My question of what you did for 85 days, how long has it been since 15 January to this day, not about what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, I mean, as we've seen it, it's not about God knowing what's useful, it's about my question -- what have you all been doing together and why have you allowed us to just adopt a review of authentic interpretation 21 days after the deadline for selecting new members of the National Educational Council and 85 days after the proposal for authentic interpretation has been sent to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24980	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. Since I see that the other MPs are not thrilled with this education being conducted here, they would be back on the subject. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24981	Okay, in a way, Mr. Martinovic educated me. I had the opportunity to report for the replica, however, as my time went by, I will only at first tell Mr. Martinovic that it is not correct. So I did throw that there, but I thought there was an associate. Of course, I didn't think there was a tutor in college. You know, Mr. Martinovic, we've been through these calls both you and me and I and I don't think there was a college teacher in any of that procedure. But this is a very serious topic. Yesterday, here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, parallel to the plenary session, so to speak, the popular, "lex specialis" for "Belgrade on Water", was a session of the Education and Science Committee, where a very high-quality debate was held on the situation of education in Serbia. As my colleague Milena Bicanin said well, although she is from the order of parties in power - the dreary state of education. However, I will stick to today's agenda theme, which is an authentic interpretation that we are like the National Assembly, authorized to make at the request of 12 MPs. In fact, these are members of the 15 National MPs of the Committee on Education and Science, which is not so often in the practice of the National Assembly to bring authentic interpretations and there are little misunderstandings, which is in general the task of the Assembly by giving authentic interpretation. For this reason, I will read some legal standards, some of the views of people who deal with certain topics and who put authentic interpretations into the beauty of the acts brought by the Assembly and answer questions in fact are authentic interpretations. So - authentic interpretation of the legal norm or other rule given by the bearer, the National Assembly gives authentic interpretation of the law if certain provisions are unclear, incomprehensible or not applicable. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law may be submitted by the Constitution by an authorised proposing. So, the Education and Science Committee has estimated that the provisions concerning the election of members of the National Education Council are unclear, and that's what most of them have brought, I'll just say, for the sake of the truth, which makes members of the SNS most of it. Mr. Martinovic, if we ask the question how irresponsiblely did this committee buy time, i.e. wasting time applying the law as it is. So the Committee's position was, as I understand it, that it was practically unanimous, that these provisions should be clarified. This is not the only authentic interpretation that you know in the procedure, Mr. Martinovic, for the sake of the truth, I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and I am the deputy president of the Committee, at the stage of passing another authentic interpretation as regards, so to speak briefly, the number of mandates of the dean's election, or those at the head of high school institutions. So the board asked for an opinion. The second committee, our committee, to put it this way, if we move to that level of communication, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, was empowered to propose authentic interpretation. And there we can discuss whether delivery to the Government was necessary in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As Mr. Martinovic said, it could be said that if it were not for the second authentic interpretation of that member, that is, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where it would be said not to apply in that part. In that part, we can agree, or we can discuss, and there is certainly a matter that needs to be discussed. When it comes to the act of authentic interpretation itself, virtually authentic interpretation becomes a legal norm. This authentic interpretation that we're going to discuss today and that we're going to vote on in the voting day will become a legal norm. A legal norm like any other legal norm adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law concerning the election of members of the National Council will also have authentic interpretation as a new part which will be practically an integral part of the law. Many legal theorists argue about what this authentic interpretation means. Is it the character of the law now or is it something they say is a special act lower than the law? In any case, all those to whom this act applies will have to apply these provisions as if they were brought as amendments and additions to the law, so to speak. However, it is a much deeper problem and to look at the adoption itself, in order to illustrate in some way that there is a much deeper problem, it is in fact that in that part, Ms. Jerkov is right. If January 20th was listed at the Office of the Ministry of Education and Science this request, i.e. a memo providing the request for authentic interpretation given by the Committee, March 2nd and the answer when we received it, you told Mr Martinovic that it was a relatively short period, I would say it was a relatively long time. I think the Ministry has had enough knowledge, especially if you claim that nothing is slow about it. The ministry said that a relatively short period would be seven to ten days, that the ministry had acted responsibly on this issue. I think we'll agree on that, but we may not hear from you from this speaker that the Ministry of Education and Science and Mr Verbic, or his associates, could send their answer to this question within ten days. In this regard, I believe that the ministry has acted irresponsiblely, as it normally does in solving a number of problems followed by education and about which yesterday we were able to listen a lot to the Committee on Education and Science from union representatives, and even from members of the Committee, even from members of the Committee who are members of the ruling coalition. So, we believe that Minister Verbic is inadequately solving the problem of education. This shows the fact of the long-term and months-long strike of educators. After all, it's the responsibility of the entire government. We're going to be in a situation where the National Educational Council really won't work or function in the last month, two days, and it won't work for another two, three months, maybe longer. In a situation where our education has been brought to a difficult situation by strike of educators, and above all by the government's decision to reduce the salaries of educators, not only of secondary, primary schools, kindergartens, educators, but of university professors. This today may be a reason to open up the topic of education. However, opposition party MPs have applied for the status of education to be discussed in the National Assembly in the plenary section. We did not receive an adequate response from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope we get it. Maybe this isn't the chair of an explicit topic of this agenda, but I can see that you have an understanding since we're kind of trading here today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24982	I can't have the understanding that you're speaking beyond the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24983	No, I said, it's not direct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24984	I know, but you only have to limit yourself to this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24985	You will agree that previous speakers were much more out of the question than I was and even spoke beyond the time available. In any case, now with this authentic interpretation it becomes very clear who may be members of the National Educational Council from the order of this promoter. Therefore, this provision should be understood by selecting representatives of the association for members of the National Educational Council, i.e. associations of teachers, educators and professional associates who are employed in pre-school, primary and secondary schools, from the list of candidates who submit associations and companies that are taxed in this article of the law. I am today an authorised representative of the SDS. Mr. Martinovic probably didn't happen to find an adequate name for our party, I could guess that your party is called the Serbian Radical, Serbian Back, etc., but, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24986	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't try to be funny. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24987	I had a problem with Mr. Martinovic who couldn't know. I'm saying that the SDS position, please Mr. Martinovic, remember for today and future SDS, yes, SDS is on the rise, SNS is on the fall, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24988	You, like Mr. Rama these days, are dreaming, hoping, but that's not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24989	Now, here's what I'm trying to say to you, the chairman. So, Mr. Martinovic spoke as a representative of the SNS in time for an authorised representative, but Mr. Martinovic here today as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Please, or ask someone else to announce SNS's views on all these issues or, I don't know in which system, sign up again and say, "I will now speak, when the debates are reported specifically, as a representative of the SNS, because I simply cannot resist, without being involved in this debate." But please, you are today and my representative, so I do not share those political views of you as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. My views are quite contrary to your views, so today I ask you to refrain during the discussion, you will have a lot of space in the next day, we will talk about "Belgrade on Water" again tomorrow, and today we are talking about this topic, issues relating to health care, preschool education, higher education, higher education at institutions that have a very uncreditable program with which people with titles who may not have earned it, etc. but you agree that this could be a topic and that we could agree on this together, and today we should stick to it, that is, you stick to the topic, that is, the authority that you have received from us as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24990	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Replica, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very sorry, but I'm not a divided person. Well, there is one Aleksandar Martinovic who is the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and there is another Aleksandar Martinovic who is a member of the SNS and vice president of the SNS parliamentary group. So I was appointed by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives as a member of the SNS parliamentary group. As you were run by your parliamentary group. We're politicians here first. I'm sorry if I made a slip in the name of your party myself, but it seems to me that only about 15 days ago at your official premises have you changed the name of the party here, I think it was the New Democratic Party. Now you're called the Social Democratic Party. I don't mind. But what I really don't understand is that someone is saying, so what's the date of April 8, 2015, is that the SNS is in decline and that you're from the SDS on some rise. I've heard they're on the rise, unfortunately, South Morava, Tamnava, Ibar. You're on the rise? Well, Mr. Vukic told you well yesterday – people have a problem looking at themselves in space and time. You can now say to yourself that you are Napoleon, that you are Nikola Tesla, all that is legitimate, but you are neither SNS in decline nor you are on the rise. The situation is completely reversed. You who represent the former regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24992	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24993	... and that you represent the current regime in Vojvodina, you have a problem with political orientation in space and time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24994	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Veselinović, you asked for the right to a replica, but I think we should go back to the topic and now he should get the word Dr. Vladimir Orlic. And you caused a replica that... If you insist, I'll give you the right to a replica, but I think we'd better get back to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24995	I insist for two reasons. The first thing I didn't answer for the replica, and I used the time of the authorised representative, to respond to what Mr. Martinovic said, and on the other hand, it is indeed a fact...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24996	But you caused a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24997	No, well, I won't be long. So, I'm up for it to get back to the subject. The fact is that the SNS has proposed Mr. Martinovic as president of the Committee, but he is now authorised to present on behalf of the Committee, representing the position of the committee to be examined in the authentic interpretation of the law. So in that part, I think it's an abuse to use that time to express political views. So, one thing is that you are both as chairman and elected by one party. On the other hand, we need to make sure that in a way that we respect in our functions what is the purpose of exercising jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24998	Mr. Veselinović, let's not further analyze the subject. You're absolutely right and I support you in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u24999	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25000	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25001	First by the right to the replica, Mr. Chairman, if that's okay with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25002	You have no right to a replica. You have your word, you have your time as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25003	Multiple mentions of the party and the party's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25004	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25005	So, straight to the replica or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25006	No, you have the right to an authorised representative. You have 20 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25007	So, like this, a minimum of five times if I counted correctly I skipped to report by the right to a replica that was more than founded and when the party and the ruling majority were mentioned. We've reached the point of mentioning an authorised representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25008	Please, Mr. Martinovic, allow Mr. Orlic to finish the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25009	Okay? Thank you. So, I report first of all because apparently some colleagues simply want me to report on this issue because they want to hear the party's representative, the SNS reporting by line and I see there's more than a good motive to turn this into something that doesn't need to be by who knows which way. I'm surprised that no one on the opposite side of the hall has continued to respect our intention to do this in the right way, that there is a certain level of dignity in this business. And when we show more than a high degree of tolerance, he insists that all of this somehow turns into an argument that has a tone of contention or whatever. So I would ask that we stick to the subject today, both today and every time we have themes like this, to take care of the choice of words, to take care of how we spend this day, what this will look like, what it will do to people who are watching us, and certainly, with that in mind, to control the need to demonstrate wit where it is not. So, even when we talk about the results achieved, what someone doesn't see is primarily his personal problem, and it shouldn't be the reason for the debate in this room or when it comes to the names of the parties. I think the debate on names and other things on the subject is at least worth to those who show that they would love them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25010	Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25011	Time's moving again. Thank you. So this time only in the time foreseen for a representative and exclusively on the subject, as it should really happen today. First, a few messages at the very beginning at that time that I mentioned about untapped replica rights I consider a good role in this debate. As for the position of the Serbian Progressive Party, we therefore support the proposal to adopt authentic interpretation in the manner defined by the committee in charge. I will provide a few further reasons in favour of the sincere intention that this debate goes in that tone and the course in which it should be. First of all, why did there ever be a proposal to request such an interpretation? We have heard today, thanks also to the reasons given, and to the support expressed by colleagues representing their parliamentary groups, colleagues who are also members of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, in which, among other things, I am performing myself and sharing with them a list of the signatures of Members of Parliament, members of this committee, who have addressed the issue of authentic interpretation. You heard the basic motive. Therefore, to confirm and ensure, ultimately, that the finding that what we truly believe in is the original intention of who should comply with the definition under point 5) of Article 13(3) of Article 3. The law we are dealing with today, being a representative of the National Educational Council, and yes, we also agree with members of the Assembly committee covering this issue, seemed to be clear. On the other hand, we received information that in practice it is happening differently. That there are interpretations, therefore, that there seems to be someone who is not fully understood. Coming exclusively with goodwill, with the desire to clarify the matter, so that representatives of education who are employed in pre-school institutions, in primary and secondary education institutions, provide the right place in the National Educational Council, we accept the proposal that we all sign together to address the distinguished colleagues from the next assembly board, in accordance with the rules that the procedure requires. Nothing clear, nothing controversial and absolutely so could be, not just from January 15th to today, but in the meantime and until the end of this session, until the day that we all come forward together, and I think that's clear. To fence myself, at least it was up to me a few seconds ago, now I'm wondering something, but I'm going to ask the person who put my suspicions in the whole story, so clearly how are we all going to plead? Among other things, this also tells the fact that these 15 signatures of members of the Assembly's Education Committee exist, that they were given by representatives of all parliamentary groups, that no single opinion has appeared in the meantime. Has anything changed about our idea of bringing this authentic interpretation in a proposed way? Not a single one. In the meantime, you heard, we have both consent and government. I thank you, so I don't judge as opposed to some. I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their good work, because we have referred to them as a neighboring committee with one question, one request. They've worked it out to the last point, to the yota. So, 100% according to what we wanted. It's done. What I can be like one of the initiators, but content to be done that way. We got it back, we're at the end of the procedure, now we have to do this all the way, and once again, instead of everything being just right, let's face it by who knows what? That noise story again, nothing at all. Generating the drama to make it happen. He's talking about being attacked. Does the Government, or perhaps the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, or someone personal, or simply the majority? What's this about? Why are we doing this again and for God's sake, doing this this way? There were a dozen things that were controversial. For example, it is no longer clear to anyone here whether right now in the situation we are in we now have one, two, three or four months as we have been able to hear from an esteemed colleague with whom I also share benches and the Education Committee. Is one, two, three or four months now necessary to pass because of complicated procedures, many of the talks we need to make until the National Educational Council is elected? I've heard that number four a few times, so it kind of cut into my ear, very interesting. January 15th, when we make a proposal plus four months, how much does it come? If four months is necessary to complete everything, what did we do on January 15th by submitting this proposal? Did we then activate the timer for those four months? We didn't. Why? Because of the proposal to bring this authentic interpretation. What's the alternative? Imagine the situation, then we didn't suggest anything and immediately threw ourselves into work to take advantage of those four months. What would that mean? Even now, that job wouldn't be done, which is within the time limit we've heard. But I'm afraid that deadline wasn't so real, that it was more of a number to be used for that drama without need and that noise or anything, because if it were, we wouldn't realize for a month that it wouldn't matter who did it. Probably again in some way, strange way both the government and the ruling majority, but ask some other reason why something didn't happen in time. Further say that we first had to see who they were proposing, so that we could react on January 15th, which is why we couldn't do it in December, November, or when that's not true. It's not something that's going on for the first time now. So that's the thing you know about. An initiative has now emerged this January to resolve it in a proposed manner. So that's the whole story. I wouldn't mention these deadlines either, or I wouldn't blame anyone here in the O.R., if it were done properly, that people behave properly and that it's much more correct. What was the point? To attack the president of the neighboring committee, for what? So, we worked together as much as possible on this matter, all of us together. We in our Committee, we members of different parliamentary groups, we with the other committee, we with the government, all went as well as possible, and here we still have some constant need to attack ourselves just to make it sound good, to give someone a big deal, to once again underline the difference, on which there is no need for it to be, to underline the difference. Let's split up a little bit more, see that there's both sides. It's completely pointless. Just so everyone in this room knows, when we get to the point that people don't appreciate, I mean citizens of Serbia, don't appreciate a lot of politics for a long, long time, don't appreciate a lot of politicians, or even don't appreciate a lot of the National Assembly, it's precisely because there was this chronic, uncontrollable need to constantly generate noise, to make a drama, to make a difference, to make a difference, to make camps and sides. Constantly. And what we turn out to be now is a bunch of people who don't do anything else, watching him fight as best and as successfully as possible. When we change our relationship with that question, about how it should be, how we have to look at each other, how much we have to respect each other, then we'll deserve to be looked at differently, and then a lot of other good things will happen, and among other things, more people will want to deal with politics, and more people who think about their fate will mean that the whole country, the whole system will be better, as strange and unimaginable to someone. Maybe that's exactly how it works and it's not like that, but with, well, we're guilty of this kind of relationship. I'm finishing up slowly. We today if we want to do this right, we can do it one way. If we're going to go out to meet a drama generation, we have an alternative, just to make it clear to everyone. The alternative would be, now all of a sudden we're all worried about that 60-day deadline that's gone, which would have gone on anyway, about that damage that would have happened if we added 15th of January at four months anyway, but I think it's mostly about talking and talking about the guilty without any need and we say, well, now we're going to cut it off and we're going to ignore any damage. How? We're not going to adopt this authentic interpretation. Then what does that mean? Anyone who made the proposal - he made a proposal, we don't have to write back to anyone, not a single professional association we don't have to turn to and look for a new list. We move on nice and do everything within the time limit that we would have done if it hadn't been for January 15th. Is that what we want? Is that anyone, a representative of any political party, here asking us to give up this authentic interpretation? I don't think so. Even though it sounded different, I think it was a hasty, reckless procedure and not thinking about the consequences. What would be a good and right solution? To accept it, to make a positive statement, to bring the interpretation as it is proposed, as stated by the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and as we asked for it anyway. All of this is just one tiny little note on my part, which is that we take much, much more into account in everything we do, and even when we address someone with apologies on behalf of the National Assembly for its incompetence, if that actually happened, let it be in personal name. On behalf of his colleagues and committees he certainly won't agree with, because it definitely doesn't stand, no one can, and that's also the answer to mentioning some shame all over the story. It's a disgrace to some of us and to this place and to this job, and it's all certainly to the society we belong to. Nothing more. Let's get back to the subject and get this done right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25012	From what I understand, we can move on to the speaker list. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25013	The topic is probably completely uninteresting to the general public, interesting to the narrowly professional public, which is not a small number, on the contrary, which deals with education and education and is interesting to us who consider ourselves as guardians of procedures and those who make sure that it is actually implemented in the laws. Since it's been said here by colleagues that you don't know where you're from for four months, it says in the law. The deadline of four months states in the law we are dealing with - that four months before the term of office, authorised proposings should submit proposals for the National Educational Council. The possible misunderstanding that we have here is banal, but deep. I'd like a few sentences on that misunderstanding, if that's all right. It's clear to all of us what the law says and the direct denial of reality, because in reality, those who chose teachers didn't see the law as we believe it was. The will in the congregation to deny reality is not good for anyone. The will to make it a real perception is also not good for anyone, it's a common shame. Therefore, four months before the end of the term of office, authorised proposing members of the National Educational Council believe that the teacher means university professor and anyone in charge of applying the electoral function of the Assembly, i.e. the Committee has an obligation to begin the process of authentic interpretation of the law. Is it or isn't it the government that has to decide? It's not. This is the will of the majority in the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, more or less. It's going to be something most of the board decided on. What's in front of us right now? We have before us a process that is complex because we have a tendency to deny reality. When we adopt an authentic interpretation that we have a debate about and we should have the process of running for the mandated candidates for members of the National Educational Council starting from the beginning. We have another point of reality that we are obliged to talk about. Those who are used to proposing university teachers are opposed to us deciding that they are authentically interpreted as teachers, when it comes to preschool, primary and high school teachers, those who work there. When are we going to do this? Are we going to do this or are we going to think that we are allowed to deny reality and that kind of thing? Most people can do anything. He can even deny reality for a while, but he can't deny it and he can't undo it. That's what the history of many examples tells us. What should we do once we agree on an authentic interpretation that will be directed by authorised proposings to propose people from the sector for primary, pre-school and secondary education? So, teachers, educators, those who do it, they know how to do it. What are we gonna do? I have a proposal for you that I know I'm going to stay in the minority, which won't stop me from sharing the proposal with you. As part of what the law also says we should call on this National Educational Council as a Assembly and see what they're doing. What are you doing? How do you not mind, as members of the National Educational Council, research that shows that only 14% of citizens feel that education is important for the future? How do you not mind the contempt for education that appears in various segments? How do you not mind the obvious criticism that exists when it comes to textbooks, when it comes to the attitude of those who work in education, when it comes to the state of children, when it comes to the state of knowledge and education? We can say what we in the congregation do. Because we're in charge of it. Because we're an election function. We have an election function for these people. They're autonomous and independent. Being autonomous and independent doesn't mean you don't talk to anyone. We've seen what it looks like when autonomy, independence, independence of the body understands -- what I have to talk to, what I have to listen to. It doesn't matter if you're an independent regulatory body, whether you're a minister who thinks of yourself – what he has to do with the Assembly to say or to come on board or to be a MP who says – what I have to look at in the Law on the National Assembly or the Constitution, I'm going to ask my party. The topic of authentic interpretation of a provision, which has produced problems in reality, will be less damage than it will be within both the deadlines and in what the Committee on Education and Education and the Committee on the Constitution could do, is not what we, as the Assembly, have been able to do in our election function, and we have not. The damage will be less if this election story is a direct cause to open the topic with the National Educational Council. If there is no awareness here in this Assembly of how dangerous contempt for our future for education, neglecting what education problems are, we have all a much bigger problem together, than if university promoters think that the teacher is only from the university, is the right Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whether or not we should have consulted the government and whether everything is done on time? The good news is my proposal is on time. It is up to all of us to consider whether we will respond to my proposal – no matter what you say, we are great, so deny reality or, what the resources of this institution are, we will put into place a long-term debate on the state of education in Serbia. If it wasn't for any delusion that I wanted to talk about the enlightening strike, I'd talk about it, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about a more serious, descriptive, essential, system-stamped system that no one will talk about in Serbia. Whoever in the 21st century won't have 84% of the population that says education is important for the future, that future he sold in advance for nothing. I ask you to consider this proposal, when we are in an election position for members of the National Educational Council, to open a dialogue with them as well. That dialogue would have to be beneficial to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25014	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25015	Dear colleagues, one point I thought would be quickly completed has gone on for a few hours and I don't know how long it will take. What Col. Comic said, I agree with her. Education is a problem we've been playing with, if I may say so, for 50 years. That's what I see first with me, and then with everyone else, because I belong to that system, I've spent almost my entire working life in education. But if we're to be honest, it's not a problem that's the problem of this current majority or the previous majority, but as I said to all of us, and that's why we all have to solve this problem together. How are we going to solve it? Well, here's to being honest with you, with constant criticism and calling for mistakes from the previous period, you can't fix a bad situation. It can only be improved by a personal example. Each of us individually in our workplace, in our environment, should set a positive example and make an effort to improve the situation at least a little bit. Each individual improvement will bring Serbia a better one. How will we MPs here in the Serbian Parliament try to improve this situation by personal example? Well, recently, a citizen in Grocko told me about the work of our assembly, he says -- a smart man says when he has something to say, and the other one, not to say the expression he said, says he'd talk. Here, I call you now, because I believe that none of us want to be in that second classification, let's try to make this assembly work really more efficient, let's talk when we have something to say, not try to talk about the story and that the longer and longer these sessions last. Because that way we'll make a improvement for all the citizens who pay through the budget these sessions, and the time we spend on the work of the assembly will be shorter so that we can do some other things. As far as this authentic interpretation is concerned, my view is to accept it as suggested. Now, are there any mistakes on one side or the other? Well, it probably does. It's also a mistake for us at the Education Committee, which we haven't noticed before and we haven't submitted that request before. Could those from the Committee, or government, have made these decisions faster to deliver? Well, they could, but it's not a problem, I've talked to people who work in primary and secondary education, because they've addressed me with these demands to see why they represent them at the National Educational Council, professors of the university. Well, I've been told that these demands were referred to four and five years ago, but no one responded to that. So everything could have, if we were going to go to the end, everything could have ended a lot, a lot, much sooner, but now the situation is what it is and I suggest we accept this interpretation and in the future we can try to make right in time everything that we think is the problem. I agree that this National Educational Council is being formed, so we can sit down and talk to these people. Brooke and it is a shame that only 16% of Serbian citizens are. 16% or 17%? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the site: 14%. 14%? There, even uglier, to take care of education. We all need to get involved, to fix this situation. It won't be possible to fix it in a day, two, a month or eighty days, as counterpart Jerkov said, but let everyone make a little effort and slowly fix it for generations that come to make this situation much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25016	Thank you, the next speaker, Borislav Stefanovic, is not here. Marco Atlagic? You're here, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25017	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is the interpretation of an authentic one-member law that raised one of the most important issues in the state of Serbia, which is the question of education and education. It's impossible to discuss today. I agree that she was neglected as previous colleagues said, twenty-fifty, how many years do you want, and I think that today and tomorrow, when I say that I mean these days, months and years should pay special attention to education and education and science, from municipal, to say local communities to this congregation. They repeat one sentence, a condition in education and education, and learn it's dreary, but when I say it dreary, now they're looking for the guilty. I, as a man who has never earned a political salary and taken, who I have spent my whole life in education and education from primary school to university, can tell you that there are many ministers in the past government, however you wish, guilty of that. But we're not gonna be looking for hair in the egg right now, but I really don't think there's a future without knowing. I'm going to quote a philosopher in one sentence -- a grain of knowledge breaks harder than steel. If it's ours, let me put it that way, but I believe it will be, then we'll get out of the state we were in. Neither do we blame each other, but I am responsible for making false statements in this congregation. After all, we are MPs, so when I hear the previous speaker, who is currently in the O.R., who represents one parliamentary group, sits in the first bench opposite me, when he says - Minister Verbic is guilty. It was as if the sun was shining until Minister Verbic arrived. Allow only two sentences, for the sake of truth and justice, Madam Chairman, during this minister's very short period of time in a month, we have solved a bit of an inspection problem. The chief of inspection who was the image of bribery and corruption has been removed. Through certain school administrations, which were entered for 20 years and served by politicians, with inspection staff, with the staff of served politicians, school directors, and this is called bribery and corruption in education and education. I'd be a little bit of a day to talk about it, but I don't want to bother you. What am I sorry about today? As an educator who's worked since primary school and now I've been working at university, I've been through all the stages that by profession, not only as a historian but also as a educator, who deals with science, etc. what we've tried today is a good idea to remove what's been going on for at least the last few years, which is the question of the National Educational Council and the second Council, the National Educational Council for Higher Education. I see some have mixed these two tips, etc. Allow me, what was the Committee's motive? An honorable and upright motive for the Committee on Education and Education, as well as for the Government and this Assembly, is a sincere motive for us to remove what has happened. What's going on? That at the National Educational Council for Higher Education, we were deans, and the law forbidded, that at the National Educational Council, we had waved university professors, and they were supposed to be teachers from primary and secondary schools. It's a motive, a good idea of this majority, if you want on the Committee and the Minorities. That's why all 15 of us signed off on asking for an interpretation of this law. I will be very direct because in this matter I am current, you see for members of the National Educational Council besides others, as Mr Martinovic said, after him as an experienced lawyer and professor at the University of Law, it is really hard to interpret, but I will do some practical things. I'm not a lawyer. In addition, they also propose associations of teachers, educators and professional associates who are employed in pre-school institutions, primary school and secondary school. What's going on? In the list of these associations, they are under the influence of the company, to say under the quote of teachers passed by university professors with the title of magistrate and doctor, in fact they were proposed on another basis. What did we get in practice? We've got all the doctors and magistrates, and we're not direct producers. Who are they? Teachers in class, from preschools, primary schools and secondary schools. That's what we wanted to improve. What was the consequence of that? That we had bad curricula, poor teaching programs and what led to education and education for many years today. It's also a situation in higher education, even greater disaster. We had deans there that were banned by law. I personally had a problem with the board, not this one, but the former one. We couldn't get one dean to three years with two mandates, but he was 21 years old. Now we've managed to remove him at my university thanks to this very minister and the signature he sent, etc. It happened that at the National Educational Council and now we have, I went to the biographies of everyone, all "machines" from all technical schools. With the social-humanist gone. Please, what kind of programs will those programs bring from the socio-humanist colleges? Where's the college pedagogues? So now from this place, Mr. Vice President, I urge the National Council for Higher Education in the current composition that the accreditation committees that are very important for our higher education institutions are somehow proposing that people from all colleges be represented by socio-humanist, technical and other sciences. It's the only way to improve the situation. Let me go back to this part now because I know that we are now seen by teachers and workers from primary and secondary schools. Gentlemen and I need to get this straight. Through associations, associations are not only philosophers, teachers and teachers of primary and secondary schools, but also colleges, even from production, the president of the philosophical society of one association does not work in primary school, high school, university. How are we gonna treat him? Is he coming through another version? You see, these are very complex problems. We're watched by the masters and the doctors of primary and secondary schools. Do they have a right? Of course they have the right through the association because they're teachers too. So, after this interpretation, I really have nothing to say. Allow me in the end, I don't want to speak to you partyically. The Committee's good intentions, as Orlic said, for education, education and science and technological development were indeed, and there we were all unique in the assessment of this situation and what needs to be fixed. Today it's a little complicated by the party. Please, let's not do that when it comes to education and education. He's not here. He's always on strike. If we analyzed it, do you know where it would lead us? I believe he would be ashamed too because he was five, if not five, then three, I know for a fact, that he was in this assembly. Let's leave it at that place, but in a way we put education and education as one point, I really don't mind, to the Assembly and dedicate ten days to it from all these aspects. It's a big problem. Transition is not an easy process. The transition of "mel" destroys if we fail, if we do not follow, if we are not constantly perfecting ourselves so-called, let's say now, by lifelong learning, sometimes we are – permanent learning, for life, whatever you call it, etc. We're not going far. I am pleased and grateful to the board and to each other, and who leads Mr. Martinović and who leads Miss Jerkov, and also to you, gentlemen, Members of Parliament, for having managed to remove at least one small problem from the agenda, what has cost us our education. In that name, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25018	I thank Professor Atlagic. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25019	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are talking about the authentic interpretation of a law concerning, I can say freely, the most important resource of every society, which is education and education. We often say that education is an investment, and the cost is only if it is an inefficient process. When we look at research, which is mentioned by colleague Komic, and if we look at everything we've been doing lately, what we can see is that by education we're making everything just not an investment. What you've done is close this authentic interpretation of this law in some two months and more than two months and as a result of what happened? It happened, as we heard several times during this debate today, that 43 members of the National Educational Council had expired on them on 18 March. And again in the same manner, we come to a deadline break, and this time it's a deadline for selecting members and members of the National Educational Council. Before that, the delay occurred when the election of the Higher Education Council was due to take place, which was elected with one and a half months of delay and, therefore, delayed the establishment of the accreditation and quality check committee. On the basis of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which in its Article 13th paragraph 5 states that the applicants of the list set out in Article 3 of this Article are required to submit the lists of candidates for members of the National Education Council four months before the end of the term of office, members to whom the term of office expires. Lists, proposals and lists of candidates to be elected for members and members of the National Educational Council from the ranks of the Alliance and the association provided for in point 5. However, as we have heard, these members and members of candidates for members and members of the National Educational Council will have to be re-proposed because university professors find you among the proposed candidates and candidates, and after the vote of this authentic interpretation it will not be in agreement with this authentic interpretation, based on these criteria only primary and secondary school teachers will be able to choose. The National Educational Council, as we know, is a professional advisory body and should monitor the analysis of the state of education at all levels and in its competence and the consistency of the education system with European principles and values, to identify the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary and artistic education and education, participate in the preparation of an education strategy based on established guidelines for the development of pre-school, primary, secondary and artistic education and education, etc. One of the things that the National Educational Council has done so far is that it has also built on lessons from studies conducted in its documents on what needs and how fast it should change in Serbia's education system. What I would like to point out, unless one of the citizens knows it, is that 2015 is the first year since PISA testing was conducted in Serbia, that this PISA testing will not be carried out because in 2012 no contract was signed by the Ministry for the next cycle of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development that is currently conducting this PISA test. Since we know what the results were in 2012, that 40% of students are functionally illiterate in mathematics, that 35% of students show a low level of reading literacy. I don't know if this means now that in 2015 no testing will be conducted, that is, as some of the ruling majority say, whether this represents putting the head in the sand and that we will now evaluate ourselves, of course, subjectively and pretend that our education system is perfect. To remind you, these PISA tests are carried out with the aim of collecting data on student achievements to define the pathways of further reforming the education system in countries that are involved in the testing. These tests, as I mentioned, not only evaluate the mere reproduction of the learned but also the functional knowledge, i.e. what the students will apply in practice. We know that all countries leaders in successful education systems that countries have managed to convince citizens to value investment in education as investment in the future, and since we see that only 14% of Serbian citizens believe that investing in education is an investment in the future, we will certainly support this authentic interpretation with the goal of the National Educational Council starting within two, three, four months as soon as possible, or continuing its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25020	I thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25021	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia who are following our work today, we have before us the authentic interpretation that we have just asked for. I'm one of the ones who signed the request from the Education Committee because I'm a member of this committee. I can say that we have received this authentic interpretation, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has really made an effort and respected all the procedures, we have heard this today, and that is how, regardless of some attempts, I would say already manipulations or certain political games, because here after one year of my parliamentary term I can sometimes assess it. Let us return to the authentic interpretation of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, as referred to in Article 13(3), paragraph 5. It is this interpretation that will remove even the slightest misunderstandings, but also the adverse consequences of proposing members to the National Educational Council. We've heard that the National Educational Council has very important powers, that it numbers 43 members. With this interpretation, we get something that was really clear, perhaps, and said, but once again precise - refers to professional associations and societies that can delegate their members to the National Educational Council. There was just a confusion and a misunderstanding when some of them delegated to their members just teachers from high school institutions. Some have broken the procedure, and some have not. That is why I believe that this procedure can be shortened and that it will not be three months, as stated by the Committee president, but we can do so within a much shorter period. The point is that my colleagues, teachers, practitioners working in preschools, primary schools and secondary schools have equal representation in the National Educational Council, and we have already said that teachers from higher education institutions will certainly be represented and that their representation is just regulated by the same member, the same attitude, but points 1,2,3,4,5. When it comes to professional associations and in general societies that have and how important it is in education, because they primarily care about the exchange of experiences and professional training of teachers, they can also say as a representative of these societies, because I led the Teachers' Society in two terms, that it is important that they have their place in the National Educational Council, and all in order for the National Educational Council to do what is best and could make certain decisions. In short, I will also look back at yesterday's meeting of the Education Committee where the main topic was the strike of educational workers. We had good communication, we had a lot of information, it was communication between the three ministries. The meeting was attended by Minister Mr Verbic, but also by members of all four representative trade unions and, of course, by members of the Education Committee. What's important, I think we've sent one important message to the media, is that we're all on the same task, that simply none of us are on some of the opposite sides or, as one put it, the warring parties. Far from it. What is important, with everything we've heard about how important education is, and here we all agree on how important it is, we need systemic solutions, that we no longer have that anxiety every year from the strike of educators, and these system solutions are naturally passed by good laws, and that is where we, MPs, should make our full contribution. What's certain and what's good and for educators is that there's a lot of pay grade work done, that we'll have it soon, how many summers here to consider and to improve them as much as possible. What is important, we will have the opportunity to change the Law itself on the basis of the education and education systems, and soon the Law on textbooks. Of course, it's not today's subject, but it's important to say that too. Finally, because of the removal of all these concerns and the elimination of potential risk, SNS MPs and, of course, I, along with them in the voting day, will support this authentic explanation and interpretation of a member of the Law on Education and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25022	Thank you, Mrs. Milosevic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Did you give up, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic: You did not turn on my microphone. I need you to sign in so I can turn on your microphone. (Vladimir Pavicevic: I signed up. Now you're applying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session almost all day long, to note that, Mr. Becic, I believe that in every modern society education must be one of the most important issues. Our debate on the authentic interpretation of Article 13. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which concerns the election of members of the National Educational Council, has revealed, in my understanding, that in our Assembly education, it does not take the place it deserves. If that's true, gentlemen, then it means that we are moving away from what is the standards and orientations of a modern society. The National Educational Council, gentlemen, is not working in our country today and the National Educational Council will not function if I understand Mrs Jerkov, who is the president of one relevant committee for this debate, and Mr Martinovic, who is the chairman of the other committee that is relevant for this debate, until June of this year. So the National Educational Council won't work for a few months. What are the responsibilities of the National Education Council? Let's see what kind of advice doesn't work in our country for a few months. In Article 14, the National Council says, I will single out just a few of the most important things, monitor and analyse the state of education at all levels of my competence. That advice doesn't work today. The Council sets out the development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and artistic education and education, the Council is not working and will not function for the coming months. This advice lays down standards of competence for the profession of teachers and educators, standards of competence of directors, standards of the quality of textbooks and teaching tools and this advice that deals with all these affairs for several months will not work, gentlemen. Why won't it work, and how is it possible, I am now asking, dear Mr. Becic, and Professor Atlagic, who spoke earlier, and I am asking Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic as well? How is it possible that our National Educational Council won't work for a few months? So Mr. Orlic, Mr. Becic, for example, ask a question - so why are we discussing this? Dear gentlemen, how else can we discuss this? The alarm's on, because a tip that had such important powers over something isn't going to work, and it's not working now. It is necessary to ask the question here – why have we come to this situation? I think that one of the reasons lies also in the action of Mr Martinovic, who, as I understand it, imagined that the opposite of the Constitution, contrary to the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as executive authority and one part of the executive authority should control the Assembly, instead of, as it says in our Constitution, the Assembly, gentlemen, controls the government. Mr. Martinovic works here, and for God's sake, I've noticed other SNS MPs, first of all, so some roles have been reversed here, that the government here has to give an opinion, that it can wait as long as you want to think about it. Well, it's not like that, gentlemen. Our Parliament, according to the Constitution, according to the law, according to our Rules of Procedure, must control the government. Then Mr. Martinovic, for example. Here he asks the question - so how do you think I'm a double personality, he says, so once like this, and another time like this, and now in one capacity... ? Dear gentlemen, I'm not interested in that at all. Mr Selakovic, for example. He accepts the role of having a double personality, so he says, "Are you asking me as a minister or are you asking me in a different capacity?" Mr. Martinovic can choose whether he is a double personality or not, but that is irrelevant. It's important why our National Educational Council doesn't work. How come we in this assembly can't organise a session on academic honesty, for example, Mr. Becic? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25024	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Time's up. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I had another 10 seconds. The 10 seconds I'm about to tell you that you're not fit to interpret whether someone here is doing something or not, although that word of action... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: There is in the dictionary. I know it's in the dictionary, but I'm kind of not comfortable with it. So please don't interpret whether someone's doing something here or not. The word has Mr. Martinovic, a replica. Please don't cause a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25025	I'll do my best, Mr. Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the field of authentic interpretation of the law. The authentic interpretation of the law has the power of the law. The procedure for granting authentic interpretation of the law is laid down by the Rules of Procedure in Rule 194 and in Article 195. In the context of authentic interpretation of the law, it is extremely declassified to talk about how the National Assembly should control the government. There are constitutional, law and Rules of Procedure prescribed mechanisms for MPs to control the executive power, but we are now not in the field of control of the executive authority. We're in the field of authentic interpretation of the law. As chairman of the Committee, I had an obligation to give the Government an opinion on a proposal for authentic interpretation of Article 13(3), point 5. Law on the basis of the education and education system. At the government's office, not at the Ministry of Education's office, according to a former regime MP, a letter from the National Assembly was sent on January 21st. The procedure in the government isn't simple at all. So, this comes to the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education prepares an opinion, then it goes to the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives, and from the Republic Secretariat of the Legislatives it goes to the government's resolution committee on issues of education and only then comes to the government's meeting. There are now, I think, insufficiently learned MPs in terms of knowing the Rules of Procedure, so they don't know what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25026	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25027	So he doesn't meet with the government right away, so he gives an opinion. Here, let me explain to Mr. Pavicevic, since he seems to not understand this matter very well. So, Mr. Pavicevic, he comes to the government office, and then he goes to the Ministry of Education, and then he goes to the Republic Secretariat for legislation, and then he goes to the Committee for the Education of the Government, and then he goes to the government's session. And indeed, within a record short period from January 21st to March 2nd, the government managed to complete this whole procedure, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee to complete the job on March 18th. When you ask who's to blame, ask a colleague sitting in front of you. It's her fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25028	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. I assume you know the Rules of Procedure well. Since you have challenged the replica and we have yet to report a replica of your presentation, first they have to get the word, and then you have to present Mr. Martinovic, if I estimate that you have the right to reply. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: I have a replica. On what basis?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25029	Thank you. In case someone doesn't understand, on a few grounds. First, direct address by name and last name and invitation to answer the question. Secondly, addressing strangers with some inappropriate comment. And it'll all stop in two minutes, amazing. So, first thing, why do we find ourselves in a situation where the term of office has expired? The answer to that question is always one and the same, whatever the mandate is, at any time we're on any topic. Because other things haven't been done before. Does it mean sooner or later, sooner or later, that's different. But if we had done all this six months ago, it would have been done long enough, far from any deadline. Maybe if we were two years ago. In any case, when we're working on it on January 15th, whether you suggest or not to bring authentic interpretation, we don't have the end of the story from that moment to this day of the four months, which some today have been incriminatingly caught. Is it about whoever suggested the names too late, or whoever put them in the board session too late, or maybe too much time was taken in the meantime for all opinions, it's completely irrelevant, whatever you rule out you don't have those four months of luft and that's the answer to all the questions. The second question about relationships is, why is this even a topic today? The answer is more than clear, because of selective understanding. What he writes for all MPs is the same, same text, same letter, same party, same member of the Rules of Procedure, someone understands because he wants to understand, wants to understand, and someone doesn't understand, not because it's hard to understand, but because he simply won't. Third thing, I've offered you an alternative conclusion. Suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that the authentic interpretation be rejected and there is no writing back to the promoters. But no one will, because no matter how much he pretends he doesn't understand, he still understands that it wouldn't be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25030	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, replica You do, too, but first Mr. Pavicevic, he called before you. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I have the right to replica.]] Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Becic, I would be happy to give Mrs Jerkov the right to speak before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25032	If you'll excuse me, please, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25033	But that after Miss Jerkov, I speak. But, well, if you've already decided this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25034	Didn't you say you were right about Miss Jerkov, even though you were the first to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25035	To speak according to the Rules of Procedure before me, but if you do not allow it, then I will speak now, and Mrs. Jerkov after.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25036	Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic, when you've already got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25037	All right, Mr. Vienna. I want two things to say to the distinguished gentlemen, Mr. Bečić, Martinovic, Orlic, and I am sorry that Mr. Atlagic is not here, who usually participates in all our discussions here. First of all, I now understand that Mr. Martinovic told us that the government is ineffective, because Mr. Martinovic now explains the path of a proposal asking for an opinion and says - must be here, must be point 2, must be point 3, must be point 4. Well, there's a lot of dots here, and then I conclude that it has to be done more effectively, gentlemen. This government has then been ineffective since the very beginning in terms of some procedures. That's also one problem. The second thing, Mr. Becic, which Mr. Martinovic could say about, is how long does it take to wait for the government's opinion on something that comes from the board whose chairman is Mr. Martinovic? Let's imagine a situation that hasn't come to mind in months. Then I ask Mr. Martinovic, does that mean that we don't have to do anything here for months on a specific case? I think we should work and that if we don't have a reasonable opinion, then we should do as it says in the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to authentic interpretation of the law. Mr. Orlic didn't understand one important thing when he said - so why are we here to discuss it like that? We have to discuss, gentlemen, when the National Educational Council doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25038	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Replication to Mr. Martinovic's presentation, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I really don't know which way to say it – which is why we haven't asked for an authentic opinion before, because the law says that the deadline within which authorized proposings can propose candidates - four months? The four months expired on 19 December 2014. When we saw what the proposals were, that the deans were here again, again there were university professors, then we asked the Committee for Legislative Opinion on January 15th, because the Assembly was not working from December 30th to January 15th. As soon as the congregation started to work, we met and we asked for that opinion. It is not true that the election in the Assembly should take four months. It seems to me that Mr. Orlic interprets it maliciously. So it's just prescribed by the Law that they have four months to deliver, and does it take the Assembly four months to choose candidates? No, I don't. If we had started then, in fact, if the Legislative Committee had given that interpretation, if we had adopted that interpretation, we would have been able to adopt, select candidates within the deadline foreseen. It's not true that the Assembly has four months to choose these people. That would be pointless. We can't decide between 34 people for four months. It is that only four months earlier they need to submit proposals, and the Assembly can choose to do so in a very short time. If it hadn't been for the government's delay, if it hadn't been for Mr. Martinovic's impeccableness, who waited forever for the government's interpretation, even though the Rules of Procedure allowed him until the government gave him an opinion, we would have chosen the National Council in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25040	Time. I thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last to teach us lessons in respect of the deadlines are MPs of the former regime, both Mr Pavicevic and Miss Jerkov. At the time of the DS government, for several years this state had no constitutional court established, which, I'm sorry, is still a slightly more important institution than the National Educational Council. We were a state that had Mrs. Natasa Micic as acting president of the Republic and it lasted I don't know how long either. So, you've made a mess in this country with the institution of the President of the Republic, with the institution of the Constitutional Court. You delivered men to The Hague tribunal without any constitutional or legal basis. And now you say -- imagine, you've been waiting forever from January 21st to March 2nd. And when you don't have a Constitutional Court for five years, it's not forever. When you have a few months or a year, as much as Mrs. Micic has served as president of the Republic, you've made fun of this country. This is nowhere in the democratic world, that for a year someone has been acting as president of the Republic because the former DOS parties could not agree on what candidate they are. Now imagine, the end of the world will take place because, reportedly, the chairman of the Committee on Education has been waiting forever from 21 January to 2 March for the government's opinion, which is mandatory under Article 195. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25042	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25043	We have implemented our procedure, simply, to the end. The fact that we don't have the National Educational Council, it's your fault, Miss Jerkov, it's your fault. What happened to us, what happened to the government and what happened to this National Assembly, we did. But instead of dealing with the issue of the National Educational Council, you've been dealing with exorcising witches.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25044	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Time's up. Replica, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25045	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr. Becic, Mr. Martinovic just announced one of his views within which anyone who listens can conclude that I, the MP of the New Party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vladimir Pavicevic, is part of the former regime. Dear gentlemen, here again to announce to all the MPs, as well as to Mr Martinovic, that I, Vladimir Pavicevic, was never part of any regime. Dear gentlemen, I have never participated in any government. For the first time, I was elected to the National Assembly MP in the elections organised in March 2014 and I am glad to see that for these incomplete years, on the basis of my actions, Mr. Becic, in the Assembly, and I see that you prefer this misdemeanour, but I am working here, and that, based on this action here, I have earned a certain reputation as a professor, as you like to say, or a man who is very well understood in Serbian, as Mr. Martinovic likes to say, or as a person who also has an academic career, so understands the principle of academic honesty, as Professor Atlagic likes to say. I, gentlemen, am here today in the Assembly to interpret the laws, to propose laws, to comment, to analyse the laws because I want these laws to be good, and I am prepared, Mr. Becic, to hear Mr. Martinovic hear that after the next parliamentary elections I am working, Mr. Becic, from the position of power. I'll come to power for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25046	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Pavicevic, you insist on challenging the replicas because you mention the names of the MPs in the hall. In this way, giving the replica to Mrs Jerkov on the presentation of Mr Martinovic, after you have applied, and to Mr Martinovic for your presentation, we close the circle of replicas and there are no new replicas. You can still try to mention the last name of the MP in the O.R. I also believe that Mr. Martinovic, when he spoke about the former regime, thought of you as from a party where the president of the party is the prime minister of a bad government and therefore you must wear that epithet of the former regime. Thank you. Miss Jerkov, come in. Did you want a replica? Yeah. I see that you are surprised that I am giving you my word in the first place, and you asked for a replica because you were mentioned in Mr Martinović's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think there's any point in explaining to Mr. Martinovic that today is not March 2nd, but April 8th, and that everything is expensive, with the delay of the government, we are 85 days late compared to when the Committee on Education applied for authentic interpretation, and that request was filed when he saw that authorized associations were once again proposed by university professors, and he couldn't see it sooner because they hadn't suggested it before. What he was saying about the former regime, Mr. Martinovic, is also not true, since, let's say, at the time when Natasa Micic was acting as president, four times were unsuccessfully scheduled and held presidential elections, in which simply, a sufficient number of citizens did not come out. But even if that were true, how is that an excuse for us not having the National Educational Council and for what 85 days have passed since the moment you were asked to make an authentic interpretation until today, when it was put on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25048	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. Replica, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and how this has to do with each other because the Democratic Party has left in the political heritage of the SNS one ruin from a state where you didn't have a Constitutional Court, in which you haven't had a President of the Republic for months, in which there has been lawlessness that can't be seen in any democratic state. This lawlessness is unfortunately seen today in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the protagonist of that policy again is the same Democratic Party. As for Mr Pavicevic, he understands everything, he just doesn't understand whose election lists he was elected to the National Assembly. You've been selected from the Democratic Party list and now you can wash yourself, defend yourself, not admit it, you can do anything but it's a fact. So you put your name and name on the Democratic Party list. During the Democratic Party we did not have a Constitutional Court, during the Democratic Party we did not have a president of the Republic, during the Democratic Party a robbery privatisation was carried out, did someone force you to go to the party's list? It's not. That was your choice. Now you must carry your political burden. You put that burden on your back. You didn't get anyone from the SNS. Miss Jerkov just left the O.R. She noticed, she now said herself, she noticed on December 19th that these associations did not propose candidates who, in her opinion, should propose. Now it's my question – and what was she waiting for from December 19th to January 15th? Who's to blame? Alexander Vukic, Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Who? We haven't received an answer to that question yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25050	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. It's not worth it if there's no more MPs in the Democratic Party's room. There's only Mr. Pavicevic from Nova. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25051	Mr. Becic, how much time does a parliamentary group have for me to make the most of it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25052	Please, Mr. Risticevici, make sure we've worked until early this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25053	Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been patient enough to listen to some of the people who think that political talent, which lasted, lasted, lasted. I thought they'd remember that saying that you should never regret it when you eat moderately and speak moderately. However, individuals have maximumly called some other MPs to challenge the replicas that lasted, lasted and lasted, and I have waited patiently for my turn, but I will try to finish it before the time of the parliamentary groups expires. After some of the exhibitions I have patiently listened to in countless replicas, I must say under number 1) that I will support the authentic interpretation of the committee presented here by Mr Martinovic, seems logical, precisely explained etc. and all that we will, if we stick to the procedure we cannot vote differently, how much we will respect the constitutions, laws and Rules of Procedure. It's said here that education standards are very low, that's said earlier, my fellow regular speaker and I can agree with that when I've seen all the teachers here, I'm really worried about this country's education system, I'm worried not only about students, I'm worried about elementary school students. There were also talk of some diplomats, I'm not getting into that. My proposal long ago was that all diplomas should be recognized by those who pass the entrance exam at school or at the university whose degree they own, and to God, some of them, teach me at those colleges that I don't think they could pass the entrance exam that students in colleges teach. It's also said here that SNS has its own college. I hope it's not that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25054	Mr. Risticevic, please do not open topics that are not on the agenda, regardless of what these topics are open, which is mentioned in the debate, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25055	Okay, I'll agree with that discrimination that she'll be positive that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25056	If it's gonna be on my soul, but please get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25057	What are you arguing about, slowly, Mr. Becic, here's what I agreed with not having the right to talk about what my colleagues were right about. They were talking about a double personality. They insulted the minister of justice. You didn't react. They said he was a double personality. It doesn't have to be a double personality based on a profession. It can be a double personality based on citizenship. You can have two citizenships. Maybe you're a double citizen. Let me get back to the subject. I understood well here that they are in the proposing primary school, or that they are the promoters of associations and societies. What I didn't find among the promoters is company and the Cyrillic Association. I would like to advocate that this National Educational Council enters someone on the proposal of the Cyrillic Association, given that the Cyrillic is very abandoned as a letter. I am one of those who thinks that Latin is our letter only that the labels are not and should not be given our letter or language, but I also think that Cyrillic is a dominant letter, that it has been neglected in our country and no matter what it goes into the EU, I think if we enter the EU that we must protect our letter in the way that Bulgarians and Greeks have done, and the Macedonians are quite successful in protecting their Cyrillic, their own letter, to say, what Mr Atlagic says is that in fact our letter, which we easily and our letter and language, we lend to others. It doesn't occur to the British to lend their letter and language to the Americans, no matter how dominant they are. It can't be called American. It can't be called American. It must be an English letter, an English language, so I think that Serbian, Serbian and Cyrillic must be protected at least in this territory and given the right to society of Cyrillics, associations, that they too have the right to propose candidates for the National Educational Council. Once again, let me say that I don't want to take advantage of all the times of the parliamentary group, that I agree with the fact that you didn't allow me to do something else, but in the future, I'm going to try to make sure that all the rights that apply so-called rights. opposition MPs who rule over one quarter of Serbia's territory, that all the rights they have, that such same rights, no smaller or larger I have. Not someone who supports me, I am not a member of the ruling majority, I do not have any authority, but someone who, in a longer or shorter period, supports the majority, I will ask that such rights as those of minority members here in this House, that I have the same rights in a situation where sometimes, from case to case, I support the majority's position, and there are cases where I voted quite differently and supported some of the opposition's views and amendments to the opposition in this Parliament, which they have proposed. Once again, I think we as a society need to pay full attention to education, but we also need to comb through the teacher's chamber a little bit. As far as I can see, there are lecturers and teachers, people I couldn't quite swear they were fully qualified to teach their students, and that's why I'm worried about students in colleges and students, given the quality I feel here in their presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25058	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I'm sorry you misunderstood me. I just did what I did and the debaters who spoke at that moment. They were warned that they were talking about topics that were not on the agenda, and I thought it wasn't complete because we don't have DS representatives or SDS representatives now, so you're talking in the wind, Mr. Risticevic. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. (Yes) Dr. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25059	Thank you. The very end, Mr. Chairman, is at the very end of a brief recapitulation. What hasn't happened today and what we haven't determined. So, at the shortest, we haven't determined what the four-month deadline is for the situation we're in today. Suggestion, first of all, January 15th as some breaking date from which today, four months, no. It was then offered alternatively on December 19th as an important date but not since then until the end of the term of office, or until March 20th, four months. So we haven't even figured out what this math is about to explain what actually happened. From there, we couldn't even determine whether the name proposals had arrived too late, or whether it might have been called too late, whether it could have been called before, and what it had to do with the New Year's break. Based on all this, we didn't even determine why all this stuff was a topic today. Put your hand on the heart, it was not clear to me from the very beginning if we disregarded the need to talk, criticize, shout completely without any need or benefit, which my colleagues in the meantime suggested did not stand, since we did not establish any other additional motive and we are, I can only conclude in the end, the others were denied. We did not, when I talk about this noise and insisting on a fight and debate, unfortunately today we have come to the conclusion that it is harmful, or consent by those who are currently fostering such practices, who are now fostering and just and persistently fostering it. But I'll just say for now, because I'm sure we'll get to the point where we understand that it's not good, and that those who insist on it are actually those who insist on things that represent the burden of some time that really deserve to stay deep behind us. As they do so, well, I don't know, they can only deserve a justifiable epithet of those who represent retrograde in this political practice of ours. We didn't even hear what we couldn't hear in the end, some alternative proposal, and what to do today. If we're not going to accept this authentic interpretation, do we accept something else, do we suggest something else? I called several times today to go out with that alternative, it wasn't there. It was either just consent with the original proposal or silence. Well, in the end, and to conclude, since this is all the same, I am staying with that initial call from the beginning of today's discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, let's support this request for authentic interpretation in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-08-0.u25060	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. I'm concluding a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation. After we have conducted a search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 13(3), paragraph 5. Law on the basis of the education and education system. We continue our work tomorrow, April 9th, starting at 10:00 p.m., by considering the draft law of the 2nd agenda in particular. Thank you.
