ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44077	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44078	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question of the Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, how did the decision on the maximum number of undefined staff in the system of state authorities, the system of public services, the AP Vojvodina system and the local self-government system for 2015 come about a solution which, at the Stočarska Veteran Centre in the Great Reproductive and Insemination Plan, determines that the number of workers from number 30 is down to 23, which represents more than 25% reduction? Since it is an institution of national interest dealing with the production and conservation of genetic resources. This much reduction would cause further prevention and exclusion of one part of production, to help the Minister and Prime Minister in the decision, in changing the decision they made, I would like to say, that the Big Plan Stock Veterinary Centre in the Great Plan is not a budgetary firm, the founder of the Republic of Serbia, operates on the principles of profit-only, meaning, without a budget account and complete maintenance, complete business is based on financing alone. As it comes to a 60-year-old institution that is involved in improving livestock, we have the consequence that instead of the wells that we had in our 50s and some years we have today a symental beef, i.e. It's home-made, sort of a symmental type. I believe that a great deal of caution has been made and that the competent ministry has not provided adequate information on the manner, type of work and opportunities of such institutions. By the way, with the seed for artificial insemination of cows in Serbia, 250,000 cows are lonely annually, thus obtaining 220,000 offspring, i.e.. Tellers and isolated about 45,000 pigs, which gives us a million passengers for this country, and we know that there are foreign partners who would like to organize this kind of production in our country. We, therefore, have already been organised in a system in which this institution plays a significant role. In addition, the Stock Veteran Centre, as someone who earns and maintains on an annual basis, pays 25 million dinars on the basis of taxes and contributions to the state which represents a significant income for the state, since it is only 30 people employed and 10 million dinars on the basis of VAT, which is made to the state on the basis of annual turnover of around 250,000 doses of cow semen and 45,000 doses for insemination of pigs. The full lack of information has led to a situation that, by practically reducing one employee for whom taxes and contributions are paid and reducing the volume of production, the effect is obtained as if a new one had been employed in the state administration, so I believe that the Prime Minister had probably not had adequate information from the competent ministry and the decision was signed by automation or the intention to mean, one institution that has international co-operation and strategic partnership, for 10 years with an adequate institution, i.e. Germany's largest Nojstite playoffs prevent further work and enable access, or access to people who deal with this business from the point of view of trade. What I would particularly like to point out is that the cattle veterinary centre for reproduction of veterinary insemination over the period of these 60 years allows the production of milk with four average quantities, approximately three and a half thousand kilograms of milk today to be six thousand and a great deal of importance to improve agriculture and I believe that in one unserious way the collapse of such an institution can lead to serious problems in the further development of agriculture in our country. What is particularly concerned is that the systems that exist, which are fully in line with all EU regulations, so that the mention of Directives 88, 407 and others which provide for a number of company employees based on the expertise they have to carry out is already in line with this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44079	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44080	I thank the president. My question concerns what is happening to the Commission for the Reform of the Political System, which started working last year, and has been doing several sessions this year, given that the work of the Commission has not been continued for unexplained reasons. We are wondering what is going on in the first place with the issues and issues raised at the so-called meetings of the Commission, given that we see in the press these days, according to the paper that one campaign is being conducted to change the Constitution, which erases a hundred MPs, we see today in "Evener News" and that is not the exception, in recent days many representatives of the ruling majority are being declared in that direction. Why are we worried about that? Not because we are aprioriers against or for constitutional changes, but because one attempt to lead this debate in an institution where it belongs, it is a parliament, that this debate is now being conducted in the media, which makes one impression that one campaign is actually being conducted, a very populist one that is actually thought to increase Parliament's reputation if there is a smaller number of MPs and if the costs are reduced, which we all stand for. All of us, of course, advocate, I suppose, would also be tasked with increasing Parliament's reputation. However, there are several problems. The first problem is that yesterday we had a chance to hear the change of the Constitution was planned only for 2017, as the minister of justice told us yesterday. That is how it is written in the action plan of the final action plan for Chapter 23. The question arises as to who is now running the campaign to change the supposed Constitution and to reduce the number of MPs. First of all, it is that the number of MPs does not decide on the character of parliament, whether it has a reputation, whether it does its job well. What we have a chance to see here, which is that from day to day, the role of Parliament is being ruined, its dignity is being destroyed. We had a chance to begin a session yesterday scheduled within two days with 73 points of the agenda of which 68 by emergency procedure. We had the opportunity to see the unification of the debate where we combined incompatible points of scientific and research activity, financial laws and cooperative laws, about chambers of commerce. So MPs can't do their job. It doesn't matter if there are 250 or 150, it's a method of work, it's about destroying both the position and the role of each individual MP, each political party representing citizens and parliament as a whole. What is our question is again – what is happening to the Commission for the Reform of the Political System? What does the ruling majority intend to do to further endanger Parliament's dignity, and how do you really think that the rule of law, democratic standards and European integration can take place when it calls into question the dignity and reputation of the country's most important institutions? The Democratic Party will always be in favour of participating and working in the Commission to change the reform of the political system, but such campaigns, mostly populist, which do not have any real opportunities to be realized, since the change of the Constitution will only be in 2017. Again, Minister Selakovic said yesterday, they have no chance of coming true. Are these just some pre-election games or is it a task to hide something else, as we think that this way of working in parliament is actually hiding something else? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44081	Thank you. The question is addressed to me? It's either me or the ministers. It is not a problem, as regards the urgency of the procedure, it is done in accordance with Article 167 if I am not mistaken, this Rules of Procedure was made during the ruling majority of DS, the consolidated text was in 2012, so if there was a grudge, it could have been done on this, and it is a particularly interesting provision, which states that all regulations that are in conformity with EU rules are in place. As we have opened the first negotiating chapters, according to the Rules of Procedure, which we are working on, Malten, everything should go according to emergency procedure, 73 points, yes, there were sometimes 700 and 800, which is no excuse, but if it bothered 73, I don't know why it was added and 74 by emergency procedure, by the MP group DS. So we participate together in this process of development, respect for parliament, and then we should be the one who resents never using it. I don't mind, it's just not everything as it appears, nor is Parliament's dignity humiliated by work, but Parliament's dignity is humiliated once, some other things that happen here during the debate, when we don't talk about laws, but we insult each other, in my humble opinion. As for the work of the political system reform group, I will inform myself as far as we can. As far as I know at all these sessions, all the parliamentary groups have narrowed down something that brings them together, which is a reduction in the number of MPs. I guess that's why the media debate started with that. Public debate when there are some other things that will unite us, so most people think so. How can we explain democracy is always important, what the majority thinks, because it represents most of the votes of the Serbian citizens. The other system better is not made up. The minority if it were to rule, it would mean that something else, at least through history, we know what it looked like. But if you want a more detailed and written answer, I'm ready for that, too. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44082	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one question that no one has an answer to, and that's whether Mr. Pitiæ is at work today? I don't have anyone else to set up, except maybe turn into his office to see if anyone's gonna answer, but that's less important. I'm asking one key question for the Ministry of the Interior, which is, as far as the investigation is concerned, when we're talking about robbing the Vojvodina Development Fund, the Vojvodina Capital Fund, when we're talking about the big robbery that happened to those who need the help most, and these are children who are distracted in the development. We're talking about the Hetreland Castle that was to be built for children who were distracted in development, where a million and a half euros went missing. These are the key questions that MPs are asking for an answer. We know that the president of the province government is irresponsible, that he is hardly ever in his place of work, that he has been doing nothing for years for the province, that there are no results, but then we can relate to this issue and great concern from the DS, Mrs Vuckovic, as she said – what will happen to the reform of the political system and how long has it been? I'm sorry, how did we get so scared of DS when we saw what Mr. Pitiæ said yesterday? He came up with an idea, imagine people, boycotting elections, and I'm asking one key question for all MPs, and let's hear your opinion, the Honorable Chairman, and what's the difference if the DS goes to elections and the DS boycotts the election? I don't think there's a difference at all, there's no such thing. Why do I tell you this? If we have robbery privatisations from the DS, robbery of the Development Fund, Vojvodina Bank and everything else, and remember that six months ago, seven months and eight months ago, from that same DS we had a lot of pressure to discuss the election. We've been invited daily to discuss the election, because they're going to win those elections. As the elections have drawn close, the DS is running away from these same elections and not only is it running away from these elections, but they say they are thinking very seriously about boycotting the elections. I think it's a really big tectonic disorder on the political scene, if DS boycotts the election. Another question that is important, we can think about today, what is the fundamental difference, if DS goes to elections or if these same elections are boycotted? I think that there is no difference, given that if you are already concerned about the number of MPs, I think that in each of the next elections you will have a growing number of MPs, not because I have something personal against the DS or the name of that party, but because of everything you have done and what you have left behind in this country. That nobody can forgive or forget, because in every way, you have tried to drag your hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens, and it still works very well, very experienced with long-term experience and Mr Pajtic, who daily drags his hand into the pockets of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Whether he's in his place of work or he's in the shadow of the government, we can discuss, we can't determine, because we have no one to ask, but the fundamental difference between that, whether the DS will go to elections or boycott them, I don't think there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44083	Thank you. If you've asked me a question, it's so complicated that I'd ask you to give me a deadline. I don't know why some party is saying in advance that they will boycott some elections that have not yet been discussed among parties, or the ruling majority, or those who will want to participate in some elections. Do you agree, MP? Here, members of the DS agree. Anyone else want a word? (No) I thank you. I would like to inform you that today the session is attended by the next MP, Borisav Kovacevic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the proposals for the law in points 72 and 73 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPROVAL OF THE LAWS FOR THE PROTECTION OF LAND I implore the Minister with his associates to enter the hall. I know they're here in the building. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that today’s sessions will be attended by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as by its co-workers from the Ministry and the competent administration of agricultural land. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44084	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, it is a great pleasure for me today to present and explain to you two very important laws from the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, and this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land regulate the issues of the use of agricultural land in state property, and the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land regulates matters of exceptional importance for the preservation of land as the only non-renewable natural resource. I am particularly pleased that these two draft laws are presented in the year which the UN organisation declared to be an international year of land, setting as a global problem of land degradation and a negative impact of the same on other segments of the environment with the aim of protecting land from harmful influences, above all, anthropogenic origin. Dear People's MPs, allow me to present before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land. The basis of the proposed law is contained in the policy, management of agricultural land in public property established by the adopted strategy for agriculture and rural development of the Republic of Serbia 2014/2024. The main objectives of this policy are the efficient use of agricultural land in state property, the use of sustainability principles, the increase of agricultural land ownership and the accumulation of parcels. Starting with the need to implement the adopted policy and significant problems and shortcomings seen in the current application of the agricultural land law, we have proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law with the ultimate aim of establishing an economic, rational and socially responsible approach to regulating the use of this extremely important resource of the development of the Serbian agrarian. No doubt, the key to the development of each country's agricultural production, including the Republic of Serbia, is a well-designed agricultural land use policy. The Republic of Serbia has about five million hectares of agricultural land, of which about three and a half million hectares are hurricanes and gardens, orchards and vineyards, and about one and a half million hectares are meadows and pastures. From the land available, about 20% is in public, i.e. State property, of which 830,000 hectares, according to data from the Republic Geodetic Institute, has been identified as catastrian plots, while nearly 200,000 hectares of land are not registered as state land, but is still being held as state land of mixed property and the like. Of the total of about 830,000 hectares of clearly identified state agricultural land, only about 30% of available areas are found in the lease annually. Thus, in the agri-economic year 2014/2015, around 260,000 hectares were leased and a 51m-euro income was generated on this basis. This revenue is divided into the republican, provinceal and local self-government budget of 30% to 40% for local self-government in the area of the autonomous province, i.e. to the republican and local self-government budget of 60 to 40% in central Serbia. These funds are extremely important because they are the revenue of a budget which, by law, goes back to agriculture and is used for the purpose of developing the same. Based on the data previously exposed, it is clear that around 570,000 hectares of state land have been isolated, i.e. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In view of the average price of renting one hectare of 190 euros, it is clear that the state is losing huge funds on this basis, accounts also say over 100m euros. Because of the previously described purposes of these funds, it is clear that at an annual level this is a huge loss for our farmers and agriculture, but also for a country in general that through this non-domestic relationship to the good of the general interest of all Serbian citizens, suffers enormous damage. A particular problem is the fact that some of the unlicensed land is used by individuals outside the law and without paying compensation. Most often they do so with the tacit consent of the competent authorities in local self-governments which, under the Constitution and the law, are responsible for the adoption of annual programmes for the protection of the arrangements and use of agricultural land in the state property, as well as for the implementation of the agricultural land lending procedure. The problem is that lawless users are not uncommonly NN persons, who find it difficult to conduct a judicial dispute and collect from them the damage they do to their illegal activities. Currently, claims through court disputes against identified persons are over 22m euros. A major challenge in preparing the bill was our reality in terms of diversity, present problems and the intensity of the impact of those on the years-old, extremely unfavourable and inadmissible situation in this area, and in terms of individual local self-government, the area and the region of Serbia. As a matter of fact, I'm just going to give you some information. In the past agri-economic year, 10 municipalities have not even adopted an annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. Of these, three are in the AP Vojvodina area and seven are in central Serbia. This means that no basic precondition for the implementation of the land lending process has been created in these municipalities. The average cost of renting land in the Republic of Serbia in the past year was around 190 euros. The highest average price per hectare in the last public competition was in the Indji municipality and was 594 euros. The lowest in Svrlig nine euros. The data suggests that 34 municipalities of 45 in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and only eight municipalities of central Serbia, a lease based on livestock has been registered, i.e. It's a real big deal. In addition, it should be noted that the 109th local self-government did not apply for the right to cross-border infrastructure, and from that in the AP Vojvodina in 22 municipalities. I remind you that the infrastructure in the context of the Agricultural Land Act involves irrigation systems, ponds, multi-annual plantings, orchards, vineyards, as well as agricultural facilities. This is the data that clearly states that in all these local self-governments there is practically no investment on the state-owned agricultural land. We analyzed the leased areas of the right of cattle farming was achieved in the past year at about 83,000 hectares in Vojvodina at about 78,500 hectares and in central Serbia at just 4,500 hectares. Income based on agricultural land leases by cattle farmers amounted to around 17m euros in the past year. The right to cross-purchase based on infrastructure in agri-economic 2014-2015 was achieved at about 24,000 hectares, with revenue based on this basis at 3.5m euros. Land used mainly for wartime production, i.e. the area leased on the basis of a public competition over the last year totals about 153,000 hectares. Of these, about 135,000 hectares of the AP Vojvodina leased in central Serbia are only about 18,000 hectares. The total income on this basis is 31m euros. In addition, it should be pointed out that most of the problems related to corruption, illegal use and non-domestic relations to agricultural land in state property are in the areas of Serbia, where agriculture is the most developed. Dear People’s MPs, we had a difficult, serious and responsible task ahead of us. Based on the situation, problems and opportunities in the use of state-owned agricultural land, it should have proposed a law that would respect all the specificities and needs of our agriculture and our farmers, but also the expectations of our society in general and all our citizens, which is understandable, given that this land is good of general interest. Due to all the above, we have proposed the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act, with the aim of enabling investment in agricultural production, with an increase in productivity and employment, the creation of significant export potential and income growth, the improvement of productivity and efficiency of agricultural land use, as well as the improvement of competitiveness, the improvement of the procurement process, i.e. to the use of agricultural land in state property, the provision of long-term leases, which enhances predictability, safety and stability of investor investment in different types of agricultural production, the provision of equal and equal representation of land users by the right of renting, the regulation of a policy of use and management of agricultural land through enhanced control of procedures for renting, the promotion of use of agricultural land quality, the protection of the quality of agricultural land, and the protection of the consumer's potential of agriculture, the agricultural heritage, the protection of the environment and the riching of agricultural resources of agricultural resources, the agricultural heritage, the agricultural heritage, the riching of the environment, the agricultural heritage and the riching of the agricultural heritage, the riching of agricultural heritage, the agricultural heritage of the agricultural heritage of the agricultural heritage, the agricultural sector of the agricultural heritage of the agricultural sector, the agricultural sector of the agricultural land, the agriculture of the agricultural land, the agricultural sector of agriculture, the agricultural and the agricultural sector of agricultures, the agricultures, the agricultures, the agriculture, the agricultural heritage of agriculture of agriculture, the agriculture of the agricultural and the agricultural and the agriculture of the agricultural heritage of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture, the agricultural, the agricultural and the agricultural and agriculture of agriculture, the agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture, the land, the land, the land, the land, the land, the land, the land of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture, the agricultural, the agricultural, the agricultural and the agricultural, the agricultural and the agricultural, the agricultural, the agricultural and the agricultural, the agricultural and the agricultural of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of agriculture of Dear People's MPs, through an analysis of the state of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, have found that investments by landowners that are state-owned are at a very high level. The main reason for the lack of investment is that the applicable Agricultural Land Act does not make the difference between land-handling and primary production and those who want to invest in the development of infrastructures in agriculture, in increasing production, in raising raw materials processing and processing facilities, to which they would receive added value and a higher market price, and agricultural production has a higher share of GDP. As a result, this bill introduces a provision of the right to lease up to a maximum of 30% of the state-owned agricultural land. The proposal for this law retains the provision of the right to cross-border action. In fact, this solution exists also in the applicable law, which refers to owners of domestic animals and infrastructure owners, i.e. canals for irrigation and disposal of agricultural facilities for years and so on. The paper is that the proposal is to reduce the right to cross-references used by domestic animal owners over one hectare for one conditional throat by the size of their own property. These amendments and additions to the Law also regulate the issue of long-term leases in a way that ensures the needs of independent land owners, but also opens up the possibility of improving agriculture through various agricultural land investments owned by the Republic of Serbia. The extension of the lease period from 20 to 30 years is an economically justified solution guaranteeing the safety of the tenants. The long-term lease creates predictable conditions for investing in agricultural production, which encourages new investments in agriculture and job creation. The objective is for each new investment to bring new quality to be seen in a significant inflow of funds needed for further investment in order to improve the quality of life of the population. It is expected that the extension of the lease will increase the number of tenants interested in using the leased land in the long term to secure production cycles with a period of return of the funds invested. Thus, the rent revenue will be increased, and no new costs will be incurred. At the same time, the long-term lease allows for the preservation of agricultural land in state property as a significant resource, because the tenants will seek to maintain optimal land quality and to grow crops that the land will not expose to exhaustion and devastation, which is often the case when it comes to short-term lease. I would also like to point out that the proposed duration of the lease is up to 30 years and that it also applies to the tenants who exercise this right under the right of the championship, but also to the tenants on the basis of the right to cross-border, as well as to all those who participate in public competitions. So, the length of the lease is the same for investors and for agricultural holdings, for cattle farmers, for infrastructure owners and for warlords, and the proposal is that it can be up to 30 years old. The proposal for this law is also that land which has not been leased and has not been subject to the use of at least three agro-economic years will be issued for a period of five years, with the possibility of extending the lease for another 25 years and with the initial bid price of zero dinars. This proposal aims to stimulate the processing and use and that agricultural land that has not been attractive to the tenants so far, which could certainly, with certain measures, processing and remediation, be useful and valuable in increasing the scope of our agricultural production. The proposal for this law introduces the obligation to provide security funds for multiannual contracts and provides for a way of bringing into possession of the agricultural land that has been leased. The aim is to provide additional mechanisms for protection against the illegal use of agricultural land, and thus to reduce the number of court proceedings, as well as the costs of the same. The bill also requires the introduction of the obligation to keep the book of fields and obligations of respect for the fertility. We believe that this provision is of paramount importance for wartime, vegetable and fruit production in terms of monitoring and indirect care for how the agricultural land is used is leased. The preliminary objective is for this land to be used in accordance with good agricultural practice, and to preserve the natural properties and quality of this resource as a good of general interest. The proposal is also that a natural person, under certain conditions, can acquire property on agricultural land in state property. Therefore, the right to purchase state-owned agricultural land can be acquired exclusively by a natural person, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, a registered agricultural landowner for at least three years, with the place of residence, also for at least three years in a catastrian municipality where the land is sold, to own a maximum of 30 hectares of his own country. A person who meets these and other conditions provided for by this law can buy up to 20 hectares maximum. The excessive objective of this provision is to raise the economic strength of small and medium-sized farmers, i.e. the family of agricultural holdings. This proposal is in agreement with the objectives of developing the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, defined by a long-term strategy that places a special emphasis on incentives, support and support for small and medium-sized land, to increase its ownership, improve its own production and to make it more competitive on the market for agricultural products. The sale of agricultural land to small and medium-sized agricultural producers will bring direct revenues to the state, as well as later tax revenues. Also, owners will treat agricultural land with the attention of a good host, which will significantly contribute to the preservation of this land resource. Of course, it is also important to point out that we are aware of the facts about the need and importance of the fruit, both the competent state authorities, institutions, such as building blocks, units of local self-government, inspection services, judicial authorities, defences, and fruit with agricultural land users, in order to successfully implement what has been started. We are convinced that the proposed amendments and additions of the Agricultural Land Act will enable the achievement of the set objective, which is to place this land in a productive and economic function for the mutual benefit of agricultural producers and state. The increase in agricultural land availability as a resource, we believe, will have a positive impact on the overall well-being, as conditions are created for the development of stable agricultural production, the development of small individual holdings, the growth and strengthening of agricultural production capacities, as well as an increase in the state budget of which the overall benefit, through an increase in GDP, will be given to all citizens of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, let me also point out that in the process of draft agricultural land law we had a permanent dialogue with numerous associations of farmers, professional and scientific public, to prepare a better legal proposal and provide the widest possible consensus, since it is a matter of great importance for the country's agricultural producers and all citizens. Experiences from EU member states and countries of the environment have been consulted to address problems in other countries and examples of good practice. During the public debates held in several cities, positive opinions were expressed on most of the solutions contained in the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, as well as numerous comments and suggestions discussed by the Ministry through the further process of compliance with the interested parties in the text of this Bill. Dear MPs, there is today another very important bill – a bill on the protection of land, which regulates issues of exceptional importance for the preservation of land as an unrenewable natural resource. The National Strategy for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and Goods and the National Environment Protection Programme stresses the need for an integrated land protection system and the establishment of systematic land monitoring. Since the land is formed and developed under the influence of pedogenic factors, parent substrate, climate, relief, vegetation, in a constant interactive relationship, it needs to be studied in accordance with the mutual influence of all factors. Only such a sholistic approach to study can demonstrate the causality of the relationship and influence of all environmental factors. The fact that it takes 250 thousand years to create a centimeter of land, and pollution and degradation can be measured for seconds, points to the delicacy of the conservation of this environmental medium and to the attention that must be given to study and relation to land. The importance of study and protection indicates that only because of erosion each year, 0.70% of the total land mass on the ground disappears and is estimated to lose the total land mass in less than 150 years with such dynamics, without taking measures to protect them. The main causes of soil pollution and damage are anthropogenic impacts, and particularly due to the exponential growth of the human population, climate change, erosion, reduction of organic matter, industrial pollution, inadequate treatment and land protection, excessive use of protection products in agriculture, pollution from dotted and bifuse sources, overlapping, land collapse, reduction of biodiversity, falinisation, floods and slides. At the space of the Republic of Serbia 86.4% of the total area is threatened by the degradation of land of different etiology and intensity. It estimates that the erosion of different degrees is present at about 80% of Serbia's agricultural land, which is enough to indicate only this aspect of the alarming threat to land and fully justifys the reasons for the law's adoption. The proposed solutions in the law provide responsibility from all entities in the area of land protection, and the monitoring instrument, which is prescribed by this law, is binding on all polluters, users and land owners. Responsibilities and obligations, in relation to prevention and protection measures of potential contaminants, are apostrophe in such a way that all types of burden, pollution, degradation in the areas of agriculture, industry and other industries are reduced to the minimum, with constant control and monitoring of the implementation of the prescribed prevention and protection measures. The proposal for a land protection law provides for prevention and protection obligations in the areas of agriculture, industry, water, water and waste, which will increase the level of responsibility of all entities in the protection system. In the context of the availability of information, this law will give the interested and professional public a greater opportunity to come to information more effectively and faster on the state and quality of land in the territory of the Republic and to plan activities and bring society's needs in line with the information. Positive solutions to the law are seen in the fact that land protection mechanisms as a natural resource will be prescribed, land monitoring on the territory of the Republic will be established. Systematised land status and quality data will complete the information system for environmental protection and the state will have data that will allow continuous reporting by the European Environment Agency. Data obtained by monitoring land will form the basis for creating spatial and urban plans, determining how land is used and will be made available to the public. The adoption of the proposed law will regulate issues of comprehensive land protection, with a view to the permanent establishment of its functions, the prevention and modification of land quality, the recovery of damaged land in the places of abandoned industrial zones and other issues, the listing of preventive and rehabilitation measures to ensure its ecological, technical and industrial and socio-economic functions. This will protect the ecological functions of land relating to the irreplaceability of land participation in the production of life supplies, biomass and other functions that land has. Using the experience of European countries applying national regulations and remarks by the European Commission that none of the existing laws has integrated access to land, the proposal for this law is designed to contain all segments of protection from all sectoral policies, planning, preventive measures, management and use methods, protection of pollution and degradation, recovery and deculation. The aim of this law is to establish a legal framework for the conservation of land, as a natural resource, to prescribe preventive protection measures, to protect the prevention of land quality violations, to resuscitate damaged land and to take measures to ensure its ecological, technical and industrial and socio-economic functions. This will create conditions for ensuring the ecological function of land in the production of biomass, life supplies, renewable sources of energy and raw materials, the ability of land to be a buffer filter and an exchanger between the atmosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere, and the role of land in that it is a biological habitat and a gene reserve. Dear People's MPs, finally allow me to thank all those who have contributed, invested time and energy and incorporated their knowledge and experience into these two draft laws. Given the exceptional importance of the protection of land and agricultural land, as a natural resource and the need to establish a relevant legal framework, I believe that the proposed laws will come under approval and I believe that you will gladly accept them in the great majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44085	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44086	Dear President of the Assembly, Madam Minister, Honorable Mr Radosevic and other fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, there are two very important laws ahead of us. The very fact that it is said in the first article that agricultural land is of good general interest to the Republic of Serbia used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes is a serious fact that requires serious access to anyone who wants to study this law and that the law is subsequently applied in normal life. What I believe I am obliged to say, before further elaborated this law, on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, is to first clarify some concepts. Very often the term, i.e. information, is used by those who do not know about it, most often, what it means, is that the signed SAA is harmful to the state and that it allows land to be sold to others, or residents, since September 2017. This is true, however, for the sake of informing the public of the SAA is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is a basic prerequisite for joining EU membership negotiations, and so those who believe, and at that point we felt that the EU should be joined, must bear in mind that this process is happening in this way. So, the signing of an agreement that says that. In order to clarify the fact that this SAA provides for the possibility of buying and others, in translation to simplify it means that if you want to enter the EU market of 400 million inhabitants, you must be prepared to open your own market. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: And eight years less. ) Please don’t throw me away, because I don’t want to communicate with you while I’m out. I'm focused on taking out my exposure. I would ask the President of the Assembly to help me to be constructive in this debate in the right way. However, the fact in the translation that every citizen needs to know is that the SAA says -- it can sell land under the same conditions as the citizens of Serbia. These conditions are not prescribed by this agreement, nor by any law, but by the competent ministry i.e. The state brings and these conditions can be at some point. So, when this opportunity comes, in 2017, that the easy conditions for the local population are farmers, and making it difficult for someone who wants to come on the side. In translation, if someone lives 10 years here, and he is a producer or sower by profession or whatever, and you put as a condition for buying that he has been processing the country for 10 years, it is a problem for a stranger, but it is not a problem for a domestic producer. This is the way in which a Slovak country, an advanced country, and for example, can serve us in order to comply with these regulations, she did the same. She made it a condition that she could not buy land for ten years. Not that anyone lives on it. So we've cleared up what the SAA is. This is a basic prerequisite for you to be able to launch coordination negotiations, i.e. negotiations on the chapters for joining the EU. Please don't abuse it. So if we hadn't negotiated it, you would have had to. I think that we are all the same together, that we want to join the EU. So when we know what the condition is, then it's simple to do. What we think is a problem with this law that I would like to praise in terms of good intentions, we need one such law, and that is one civilization measure that the ministry is responsible for, and I want to commend, effort, but you know what it is? In each work effort represents one part of the results obtained in the end. It's an important result, because the results and the winners are remembered, you don't remember what wasn't done well or what wasn't done well has to change. The lack of this law is the first to look at the factual situation, as far as agricultural land is concerned in the territory of all Serbia. So they're not the same conditions in northern Serbia and in the central and southern parts. When we talk about renting, I immediately say that I absolutely support the possibility that every farmer can buy up to 20 acres and my discussion won't apply to those martyrs the producers I've been working with for 30 years and I know how they're struggling. It is commendable, however, that the problem is one third that opens up the possibility for many other things. I'll give you examples. First, on the territory of northern Serbia, i.e. Vojvodina's total state-owned is somewhere around 31% of the country. All categories of land enter these areas. And when you say that one-third of every local self-government can lease, that is. to create a lease plan, then you can easily come into a situation where in northern Serbia, in Vojvodina where you have the largest areas of the highest quality land, you can rent this land, and that pastures, swampland, sandland that have a category, stay for renting or processing to our people, i.e.. People who, by nature, live here, have to process it. So, 30% of that land isn't in Vojvodina, you said up to 30%, up to one third. The situation in central and southern Serbia is completely different. In Serbia, you mentioned earlier, in central Serbia maybe 10, 12, 15%. The rent price, you said, is 190 euros on average. It may be better to measure it by the amount of a product in agriculture, because I learned that developed countries mostly express the prices of a product, some services or measures in the value of the product being produced, so, for example, the price of artificial insemination was 40 kg of milk 3.6% of fat and you keep the value of that product and preserve the economic stability of the manufacturer. So is renting land. You can't lease a country in central Serbia. No one will take it if the price is higher than 90, 100 euros simply that land can't pay you back if you pay it, and here is the average 190. This draws certain drawbacks later in renting, bidding, etc. The law and you probably had a good intention of solving it in a comprehensive way, but it didn't turn out that way because a lot of things in the law were unsaid. First, in a magical way, the municipalities were scattered. You'll allow it, I'll explain how. Let the municipalities on whose territory the country is, and we have read, or heard earlier, that this is national good are parts of the territory of Serbia on which someone lives and who is fatally bound to that part of the territory, and he has no influence in choosing who is given. The documentation in the lease of these small producers is being collected by local self-government, but consent is being given by the ministry. In your presentation, you have stated one thing, to say, in some ways doubting the ability of local self-government to carry out it properly, and thus it is going through a public debate and not only in this law that tobodes local self-government are not able to do anything about it. In those cases it was necessary to give a legal solution that if someone doesn't, you put it there if you don't make a program to the ministry then bring it. However, in the case of land sale and land collection by law, complete documentation shall be sent to the Ministry of Agriculture on the grounds that the person is entered in the register, etc. If we're talking about e-Government and opportunities to improve and sophisticated our agricultural production earlier, I don't see why local self-government can't see it. No, the ministry that will be setting up a programme, i.e. to give measures to a specific programme for the use of the land, is then referred to a local self-government that should be assessed on the basis of the proposals received, what and who to be given, and yet it must be given consent to the ministry. I think this measure is complete, I can't say such a harsh expression to say it's uncivilizing. So you have units of local self-government where people live and you let them live there the way they live, that you have environments where there are no elementary conditions. In 80% of the villages in central Serbia, you have no plumbing or sewerage, no electricity quality. So that's because we're a poor country, but it has to be appreciated when any development and promotion plan is being made. It must be borne in mind that it is necessary to help these local self-governments develop and thus raise both level and degree of responsibility in relation to such a thing, i.e. to lease land. What's also a drawback that we've encountered is to say you in one article 10, and we're going to ask amendments to improve this law in order for this law to be passed. First of all, I would ask because there's a certain aversion here according to the suggestions that come from this part of the hall, I'm not going to tell the opposition that we're looking for something and what you're doing. That's not an answer. Show me you're better than us. Show that you understand the dictionary of the dialogue. Show that you can understand that this is about the citizens' interest, and we're not interested in this part or that part of the hall. I have participated in several public debates as regards this law, and I have carried out the same idea everywhere, which is that it will come into a situation to make it easy to run out of national goods, because when we talk about the lease, the right to the lease and the right to take a fast lease, it is later one of the conditions, the right to rerent one of the terms of the sale of land. This sale of land means this - the country, every farmer in this country knows it, you can sell it once and you're not on it anymore. An old saying says – whose cattle, that and meadows. When that one comes, make better conditions so that we can produce, that small farmers get a job, but then other solutions are done. For example, conditions are given that someone has to process that country for ten years. First, I am opposed to determining that man must live in that part of the country, that he is in that catastrian municipality because the Catastrian municipality is most often not covered with the municipality he lives in. It can't be covered. The Catastrian municipality does not have the same limit as the municipality, as the territorial unit of local self-government. It doesn't have the same limit. I think that's the wrong answer. Secondly, why don't I from central Serbia buy a country in Vojvodina? Why didn't you put a solution and a condition one in order to improve agricultural production, or a peasant or me, I wouldn't mention anyone, and my condition is that I have to live in that catastrian community, why would I have to live? It should be a condition that I have to process some land for 10 years when I'm renting it so I can qualify for a longer lease later. There is a possibility that you can hire tens of thousands of young producers who have nothing to live on, have no place to work, and then give them a free lease for five to ten years to recultivate the country first, to support their family through their production and thus to get into a situation so that they can enter into a serious job, after which they can be leased. There are more things going on here in the best, again I say, intentions with unspeakable solutions. I understand that investors need to be supported, investments in agriculture, but this is done in a slightly different way. You can't sell the house first to keep the furniture in the house, and the furniture is on the street. I may be too harsh in this explanation, but we have people who live on that part of the country, we have people who live in the entire RS, who may have moved from one end to another to deal with serious agriculture. Maybe that's the way to get an adequate application of this law or the changes that we've given or that another approach to agriculture industrializes, that it becomes progressive. You can't have a way of thinking like our fathers and grandfathers, and live in the 21st century. It has to change. The change must also be accompanied by certain infrastructures, a certain way of thinking. All in all, we came into a situation where now we're telling me about a law like this practically turns out that we've been giving some tycoons, someone, to anyone who's hired that country back, who bought the land he bought under certain conditions. You predict conditions that give discretion to the ministry so that it can determine who it will sell to, that it can determine which money and this is about the intransparency of the whole process. Which is not the case when it comes to these small producers that I'm talking about. There's something I'd like to say about the law for a little while, about the land protection bill. It is a great idea, an excellent law that is necessary for this country and that is evident, so whoever was reading that law could see that it is in line with the modern laws that exist in European countries and that is one part of my response to the SAA. So, you can hang out with someone if you know their language or they know yours, if you insist on speaking your language and hanging out with the whole world, then a little bit now a man is being funny in society. What's not good here that can be fixed and that essentially changes the application of this law is, too long are deadlines. So this is where you predicted that, say, within a year proposed for the design of the programme can be reduced to three months, because you have two years to make a plan for the protection of the land proposed by the proposer. So, two years. In practice, you can't apply the law for two years, we think that the deadline should be shorter and shorter, six months to a year. Today it is also available with an electronic cathedral and for a long time a measure is applied which is an excellent measure, applied I think for 15 years, Mr. Radošević certainly knows it. Land control, the quality of land the state finances, which is a great thing. So we already have some data from certain areas where manufacturers are trained in how to cause the country and that we already know what quality is and where the problem is. Further, which is also a lack of capacity, and no corrections and criminal policy are available. You know, in European laws, there are very rigorous criminal measures in the case of polluting land for polluters and potentials, and if someone has already done so, it can even get a ban on a very long period of time or a complete end. We have also submitted amendments relating to this law. All in all, I would ask the Ministry to consider our amendments and in the right way in the proper discussion to come to a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44087	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44088	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I really don't like to preach, I don't often like to remember what it was and ask the question of who's guilty, who's responsible, but surely you're one of those who reminds me and who expect me to probably keep my associates quiet, and then you'll get the opportunity to iron out, to say -- well, the government does nothing to save farmers. Absolutely not. It is true, folks, that an SAA was signed in 2008, we do not say that the agreement was bad and that it was not necessary to sign the same, we say that those who agreed on deadlines for commitments by the Republic of Serbia did not negotiate well. It didn't take much wisdom, so think about what's sensitive, what's important for Serbian agriculture and Serbia as a state? Isn't that farmland? Well, then, couldn't you have thought about how some other countries did it? Well, could it not then be asked for an additional period, so say nicely – we will allow the sale of the country to foreigners once the state of Serbia becomes a full member of the EU. So that's one truth, but you like to remind us of it, and you don't tell the truth, and it looks like someone tied our hands and legs, makes us swim, and it excavates and throws us off the coast and waits when we're going to sink. Please don't do this, because you're wrong. What we're doing right now is trying to change what's agreed and signed. Guys, it's not easy. It is necessary to convince 28 EU member states that our negotiators were not wise enough at this point. It's not easy, but we'll fight. And what's on the agenda today and what we've been talking about for the past few months, and maybe a year, it's the Law on changes and additions to agricultural land. This law tells absolutely no member of its own that foreign citizens will be able to buy agricultural land. This law is exclusively in one of its members, and it says to Article 11 - the agricultural land in the state-owned natural person can be acquired by the burden of legal work under the terms of this law, so give the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, so that he has registered agricultural land for at least three years, so that he is in the place of residence, or in the village's Atatar where the land is sold also by the resident for at least three years and so on, the rules are clearly specified. These rules guarantee that under this law they will be able to buy land exclusively for our agricultural holdings, small and medium-sized farmers. You're now saying why we didn't give you the opportunity to have someone from another Atharic come into some third place and buy land there, just because you tied our hands and legs and we have to worry and think about everything. So only those local farmers can buy land and cannot get through these provisions any foreign citizen. You've asked a lot of questions, why 30%, the difference between central Serbia and Vojvodina, we've explained all of this and it's nothing controversial, but gentlemen Members of Parliament, please, this bill has been done on a database, this is the table we've prepared. Here, each of you can come and see in the municipalities where the property is, how much the state's agricultural land is. It is true, more is being issued in Vojvodina, but it is true that only one local self-government respects the law and all the land that is state-owned to public competition, that is, bid. All other municipalities to a lesser or greater extent reduce our share of public competition. Now, please, all this red stuff, it's all troublesome. Please, don't be long, and don't take the time, each of you can come and see and hear. Eight hundred twenty-eight thousand acres to the RGZ, state-owned agricultural land, please, two hundred and sixty thousand is leased. Well, please, what's the problem? Why are we worried? Whether it will come soon when our farmers and our other citizens will want to process the land, and it will not be, I believe it will not be soon. So the data is what I say they say. We are ready every moment to go before every local self-government, in front of every farmer and in front of you, of course, with relevant data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44089	Thank you. The word is Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44090	Thank you very much. Since this law has caused so much controversy in the public, it is good to recall a slightly wider picture, first of all, that this law has been prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Ecology, which, in itself, already seems like a logical relationship, but in a certain sense, it wants to be the opposite of one another. Especially when taking care of livestock production and taking care of contaminants like we have, say, the surroundings of Novi Sad, so we have problems with the constant pollution of Danube at Novi Sad, which I haven't noticed there have been any major reactions. I'm undermining this because I think it's very important to remind myself of the wider picture, and the wider picture I want to talk about is that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of both this and a series of laws that apparently began to be brought overnight by an emergency procedure, to move as much money as possible in the state register and to boast on the other hand as much as possible by foreign investors as possible, even if they were effective or ineffective. I'm saying this for the next one, it's going to seem strange to you, but I'm saying "Srbigas". "Srbigas" is a company, a public company whose debt is re-turned into public debt, because it cannot collect one part of its claims, and these claims are largely not charged by institutions belonging to public institutions, schools, hospitals, and also by part of the economy. The part that cannot be charged from the part of the economy, practically says that by turning into a public debt, debt to "Serbiagas", the state runs a kind of social policy that actually subsidises the loss, to preserve jobs. Now, I ask a simple question – if this type of hidden subsidisation is turned into a public debt debt by turning public enterprises into public debt, protecting jobs and protecting employees in, therefore, companies that are losers. As it is possible, then, that there is no kind of social concern for small and medium-sized producers, agricultural producers, I will talk about Vojvodina, only because I know this part a little better than other parts of Serbia, and it is possible that such solutions, as they are in this law, and I will return, specifically each of them, come into a position that destroys the possibility of small land and destroys the ability to function small land which has so far functioned by taking the state land into lease, where this story is about the possibility of buying state land, means, if someone is operating from 30 hectares that they can buy another 20, which we have at the consultations that you have very kindly organised, we have had the opportunity to talk about. You yourself agreed that the five-year deadline is too short for this land to be paid if it is paid for the wars. That deadline would have to be much longer, in order to get a chance for farmers to survive, because in the event that this law is passed in this form, we will be in a position to lose tens of thousands of families the chance to stay on the ground. If these people can't stay on the ground anymore, they're going to go into cities and that's what we're going to do, not just an additional social problem, but we're going to undermine the survival of the village as such, and it's all going to turn into an exclusively large-scale anglomeration of agricultural production. On the other hand, speaking of the need to fill the state register, which, more than I agree, I noticed one interesting thing. For example, no one thought of hiring one of the big four companies dealing with oiting, so "Deloit shower", "Tomaco limited", "Price waterhouse hous hoppers", or KPNG, to create a studio on transfer of preising, on fair prices, between the ownership of the Republic of Serbia, and these are mine wealth and let's say the NIS which is part private company, which is partly owned by the Republic of Serbia, 35%. Why does this company NIS not deal with what they bought, which is refineries and oil and oil derivatives, and instead it deals literally with the mining of the country's mining wealth. According to my information, and according to accounting international standards, where I have noticed a lot of calls for international standards, so here I call myself, prices should be marketable, because if private companies that have a number of businesses in their composition, they have to have market-based traffic between them and how it is possible that NIS is taking over oil and gas, well below market prices, which are even valid in Russia, and thus Serbia's citizens lose hundreds of millions of euros. According to my information, with gas, the price is rising between two valves five times. The price of gas from wells in Banat costs four dinars per cubic metre, households are invoiced more than 10 times more expensive. Why is gas purchased through the service provider "Gasprom Nefta", not directly from the manufacturer? I'm asking all of this for the simple reason that this simple question would put you in a position to fill the register far more than everything in this law is listed, because you're not just the Minister of Agriculture and Ecology, but you're also a member of the Government. In that light, he expects you to have a wider picture, and that broad picture also includes what I'm talking about right now, the amount of social pensions that this is going to cause is so much that it's going to produce social instability, inconceivable consequences. I have already warned you, and I warn you again, that if this law is without change, adopted as it is going to be adopted, it will mean, on the one hand, the destruction of the village in Vojvodina, largely moving out of the village because of the inability to survive on earth, the dodging of small and medium-sized land, will mean the failure of survival in the village of younger generations, stronger pressure on cities and at least a few hundred thousand new unemployed people. It will be the consequence of this law. I'm saying all of this because of the next day you have this problem that I've already talked about, and on the other hand you have a problem where it's very clear in article 7 that the members of 64a say that – the right of the lease over a period of up to 30 years has a legal face. Why the legal face? So – which is entered in the register of agricultural holdings and is located in the active status and which provides the investment plan. The plan, as we all know, is a list of good wishes, and that's what can be written about who comes to mind, but what's more interesting to me, the decision on the right of the lease, that decision is made by the local self-government unit within 30 days of the day of the receipt of evidence from Article 2. And if the local self-government units don't make that decision on the right to hire, the decision is made by the ministry. Practically, further centralization is in place, because you are here to make a proposal for a measure for the realization of the lease, a commission trained by the minister responsible for agricultural affairs. You are now concentrating the entire power on agricultural land, over what represents life or death hundreds of thousands of people in this country, in the hands of your ministry, where only it doesn't say who controls what the ministry is doing. Because we have come to the position that as much interest in this law, here can be witnessed by the number of MPs currently in the O.R. It can testify to the number of MPs who are even interested in the discussion, because it is thought that this is already a done deal, that this is a law that will pass and pass, so it is not worth talking about. I draw your attention to playing around with tens of thousands of people who don't have another source of income. Here he plays with hundreds of thousands of fates of people who don't have another source of income. Already, in the villages of Banat, houses cost 5,000 euros each with a garden. People are running away, they have nothing to live on, and you're going to put them in a position that now that they're not worth more than 10,000 euros, you want them to buy another 20 acres in five years. How do you think that happens? Which way, how? How will you protect people in the transitional period ahead of us and not allow everything to turn into a speculative sale of land or a long-term lease, which will turn into sales, those who will do so on the basis of an investment plan. Haven't you learned anything from so far's privatisations? Of course, you can say those privatisations were done by someone else, but justifying your mistakes with other people's mistakes means washing yourself with mud and I don't recommend you do it. I suggest you do something much simpler to withdraw this law from the procedure. On behalf of the LSV, I submitted to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a request for the withdrawal of this law from the procedure, where I received a very precise answer, which is why the president of the National Assembly is not in a position to do so, because it does not fall within the scope of his work. That's why I'm telling you, as a promoter, you now have the opportunity to withdraw this law, to consider all its social consequences. I repeat, every argument, related to the fact that this will be refused by foreign investors, that this will reduce the inflow of money in the government register, that by doing so, I have given you at least three solutions in my previous exposure, that you will not only replace it, but also lead to a position that much more money flows into the government's register, not to mention the 3% mining rent, which is in this country, which should be seven, and could be ten, which in many ways would bring more money to the state's register, than the full effect of this law. Because, as a member of the government, you have an obligation to take a broader view, and that is why I will end my presentation, please, because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the people who live from that country, because of the people who will be destroyed by the existence if this law is passed, because of the young people who want to stay in the country and to deal with agriculture, because in cities there are no more places left. There are no jobs and the only thing that can be done is to strike, create riots and real problems to get something out of such an empty state register, instead of giving people a chance to stay on the ground, there's a chance that under incorrect argument, some kind of attracting investment, I'm going to repeat, where the whole story of delivering an investment plan, not a reference, not anything like that, not the company's bonus, as it was called 40 years ago, but at least it knew what was going on. Now no one knows. That's why I'm very concerned that in Serbia, who doesn't need a single division and not a single point of discord anymore, because there are too many of them anyway, that there are barely a quarter of the MPs in this room, and that there are hardly a quarter of them to discuss Kosovo, where absolutely nothing can be done from this room, then it would be crowded, because it's an active political issue, and this is living. Once again, please, on behalf of tens of thousands of Vojvodina citizens, withdraw this law, make others, think carefully about all its and its social and economic consequences, and then, most of them, I am sure that the MPs in this assembly will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44091	Thank you. The word has the Minister Bogosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44092	Dear People's MP, I would like to repeat once again what I have answered and when we had the consultations that you have now mentioned, therefore absolutely not your claim that the law has been prepared by an emergency procedure. You said in the context of an election campaign we're all more valuable and we're passing the laws by emergency procedure, without consulting farmers, if I understand that correctly. But, well, if you didn't say, maybe this is a chance to say. This law has been going on for a long time. The farmers participated in its preparation, the representatives of the association participated, the scientific and professional public participated. We haven't shown any documentation that we've justified all of this, and we're ready to do it today. A transparent public debate has been organised for this law. As part of the public debate, nine working meetings were held with all those who were interested. After the public debate was concluded, we also had plenty of space and time to listen again and in oral presentation to all those interested in certain provisions of the law and to do whatever was possible and what was acceptable and to install in the proposed law that we are considering here today. In doing so, I have said several times, it is really not easy to reach a consensus and to be satisfied, given all the specificities of Serbia's agriculture and small and large and of the warlords and of the cattlemen and of the central part and of the duchy part, so it was not possible for all of them to fully meet. You say, there will be tens of thousands of land or families left, as a consequence of this law, without being able to farm the land. Mr. Canak, according to our data, all 4.485 owners in Vojvodina are renting the land, in central Serbia 778 owners, means a total of just about 5,200 owners. In doing so, you well know that Serbia has about 360,000 registered agricultural holdings that apply for some kind of incentive, i.e. a subsidy from the ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So I don't understand how you got to it, what is this math, how did you calculate it? In doing so, of these 5,300 landowners, I'm pretty sure none of them will be left without the ability to repurchase the land. You say 30% for investment and why legal faces? Up to 30%, so it is the law, legal persons predict this law because natural persons are already foreseen. By law, we haven't changed that. So everyone will have the opportunity to apply for that country. I'm undermining again, everyone can come and look at the data and see if it's possible that this law will lead to the 260,000 acres that are currently being leased, next year all 830,000 hectares will be leased, so we'd be happy to do so, but it won't be. We're aware of that. You ask the question – we are not responsible enough for small and medium-sized farmers. Please, for the first time, the government has offered small and medium-sized farmers to buy part of the country. Do you know what that kind of program is called in Hungary? Here, it's currently active in Hungary. There they say – the Hungarian Government programme "Earth to the Peasants" and everyone is absolutely satisfied. The peasants are pleased. We want our little farmer to help, and I have to say it was their initiative. It is true that I said that this period of five years is not a particularly happy solution, but it is also true that my associates are in deep negotiations with commercial banks, with large European banks that will enter and help and support the financing of the country's purchase. In doing so, sir, you know that the price of the country is not the same everywhere in every part of Serbia, in every area, in every atar. Also, you know that our farmers, the small ones, who live honestly from their work, don't all expect to buy 20 acres right away. Most of them will probably be satisfied with three, four, five acres. In doing so, there are some suggestions from the MPs we have seen now before the session begins to extend. I believe the government will try to meet them. We'll all stand for it, but we'll see what happens in the end. So our obligation is to help a small, medium-sized farmer. They, these up to 30 acres, account for 97% or more than 97% of our agricultural holdings. It's not our obligation now and our pre-election hit. It is an obligation prescribed by the Serbian Agriculture Development Strategy. I remind you that this strategy was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It clearly states that we will base our food security on a domestic farmer, a Serbian peasant, and that we will do everything in our power to strengthen him to be more ready and able to compete. It's not easy for us, given everything we inherited, to what I said earlier, tied hands and legs, to make us swim, and you smile and wait when we're going to sink. In doing so, please don't change the thesis, don't spread misinformation, don't spread the truth. Our farmers must from us, it is our obligation, and from you as opposition MPs and from us, to get the right information. Is this, Mr. Canak, real information? Did our farmers have to get this and read it? Why do they have to be worried today? In doing so, I just want to say, just for the record, we have had consultations with almost all parliamentary groups. You've been asking a lot of questions. I answered the questions. I asked you a question – well, Mr. Canak, when it's the way you talk, please, help us, I believe that you love farmers, that you want our agriculture as well as we do, advise us what to do? You said then, OK, you'll get our proposal in three days, even our lawyers will do it, and we'll pass it on to you. After that, some of your MPs came and said, "You will get a proposal." A month, we don't have a proposal. So these are our solutions. You didn't deliver yours. We have nothing to talk about. You only know how to criticize, and you have no solution. I ask you to be extremely patient, to be responsible for the farmers. They won't get anything if we say it. We ask you, we defend you, and now they want to do something else that's not good for you. Everything that's not good for them is already done. This is now an attempt to save what can and will be successful, we have no doubt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44093	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the University of John Nezbit in Belgrade, who are following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome them. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, the replica. The minister said she didn't understand your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44094	Yes, you're right, I said you'd get a bill, but you've got a series of amendments we'll discuss in the follow-up session. I'm sorry it's not one coherent law I expected. However, at least we were able to deliver the amendments in time. I wanted to remind you of something else. You yourself have now said that six times as many citizens, i.e. Farmers in Vojvodina are taking the land for hire than they do outside of Vojvodina, if I understand your exposure well. In that light, this law applies, so 6-1 to citizens, i.e. farmers in Vojvodina. You told me yourself, see point 4 – the period of use of agricultural land under Article 5 may be extended to 25 years if the agricultural inspector determines that the user is working on a surface of more than 10 hectares, to the period of use of agricultural land can be extended only if the investment investment user gets the consent of the ministry. I'll remind you, in the conversation we had, you said, the people of your ministry, that you have a total of 18 inspectors for all of Serbia, that I remember well, and for Vojvodina four, "Ec-Keta-Harum-Nedz". All in all, if there are only four inspectors, how do you think they do it? How do you think couples buy land when they haven't been paid in the most part or subsidies? It was your obligation to pay off their subsidies, so let's talk further, if we're already talking about obligations. I fully agree that this law must... Let me just finish my sentence... But anyway, at this point, I don't think he's mature enough to vote. Please, pull him up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44095	Minister, just two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44096	Just for a little while. You say - more is betrayed in the Duke of the State. That's true, but according to data on Vojvodina territory, the state agricultural land is 460,000 hectares, of which in the purchase of 230 thousand hectares, which means that 50% is a gray zone. As for the inspector, it's true that we can't boast about the number of inspectors, but it's not true that there are four of them. They are 18 and they cover as needed and those from central Serbia are in Vojvodina, such as Vojvodina in central Serbia. As for the payment of subsidies, everything you voted as parliament last year and defined as an agrarian budget, Mr. Canak, 90% is paid, and the rest will be paid in the coming days, thanks to the government's desire to further assist agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44097	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44098	The Honorable Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are on the agenda of two extremely important laws – a bill on the protection of land and a bill on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land. As far as the proposal for a land protection law is concerned, the main reason for this law is that there is no legal regulation in the Republic of Serbia in the area of monitoring and protecting land as a natural resource. That's why we have to settle this issue. The bill represents significant progress, since it fully regulates the land planning, management and use system, protection against pollution and monitoring and land quality. The SVM Group supports this bill, as its main objective is to establish a legal framework for the preservation of land as a natural resource, as well as a function of land, i.e. preventing and eliminating harmful changes. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, we must point out that it is extremely important, since it sets an extremely important area and in some ways affects the future of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The main reasons for the adoption of this law are contained, above all, in the need to address certain problems and shortcomings identified in the current application of the Agricultural Land Act, as the need for new solutions to enable better management of agricultural land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia was observed during the application. Agricultural land is a natural wealth and is good for the general interest of the Republic of Serbia used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes. That is why it plays an extremely large role and importance for the future of our country. Of course, the issue of ownership, i.e. the use of agricultural land, is causing the biggest interest of the farmers themselves, and that has always been the case. During 2015, a public debate was held on this bill involving an extremely large number of interested parties. In Serbia, and primarily in Vojvodina, half the population is in some way related to this area. That is why we need to be very careful and sensitive when it comes to agricultural land. Much depends on one country's land policy. We all have to think ahead together, because we just don't know what challenges await us in the coming decades, we don't know if there'll always be enough food. That's exactly why it doesn't matter what and how they produce, and it doesn't matter who manages these natural resources, or in any way. The public debate showed, among other things, how important the subject is, and this occasion I must also commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the associates of the Ministry of Agriculture for including, not only experts, but also more associations of farmers, but also public debates not only in the field, but also in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SVM parliamentary group held its public debate in Subotica in early August and remarks were sent to the Ministry of Agriculture. Agricultural producers had the most questions regarding the right to rent agricultural land, since they are not aware of the consequences of a provision allowing investors to rent agricultural land for 30 years. We consider it important that the Republic of Serbia in no way loses its right to own agricultural land, because agricultural land is a natural wealth that will be a natural wealth in 50 and 350 years, if managed in an adequate manner. Every country in the environment keeps its natural wealth, its agricultural land, knowing that in the next decade food will be the highest value. We believe that the state of Serbia should keep that in mind. I would like to point out that the right to the 30-year lease could be a more generational loss, since it includes the entire working age of farmers and members of their family households. Unfortunately, in the previous decade, 150,000 agricultural holdings disappeared in Serbia. A study by the Republic Statistics Institute in the workforce and the activities of agricultural holdings shows that 1.4 million people are employed in agriculture, with around 43% of farmers working on holdings less than 2 hectares, which shows that there is a high concentration of labour on family land, whose size is such that it can only provide an existential minimum. That is why one of the objectives should be to increase the total area of agricultural land in the state property, which is intended to be leased, in favour of the natural persons of agricultural land that are excluded by the bill from the lease law in some way, and account for 77% of the leases of state land. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that we SVM MPs have never been, nor will we ever be against any investor or any investment. We believe that investments are welcome, that they are necessary, that without an external capital infusion, without the development of economy, infrastructure and agriculture in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia we will tap into the city for decades. I must also point out that we have submitted amendments to the bill through which we want to specify who and how the right of the lease can be obtained, i.e. to specify which land is offered to investors. I must point out that the SVM does not support the possibility that only one investor could rent 30% of the agricultural land on the territory of local self-government for 30 years. I believe that this right is made possible for more persons and we must indicate that land is primarily offered that has not been leased in the last period. We can't punish local self-governments doing their job, betraying land. We must not punish those local self-governments where there are interested agricultural producers who issue land on time. As an example, they can also cite their local self-government in Bačka Topoli, where nearly 16,000 hectares of agricultural land around 70 hectares of agricultural land have not been leased recently. On the other hand, we don't mind offering investors land that hasn't been leased, because we should all agree that investments are also needed in agriculture. What we find positive in the law is that the purpose of agricultural land cannot be changed, but the adoption of this law makes it more stringent. We think it's positive that manufacturers have to run the so-called. A book of fields. Believe me, many have been doing this for years, I'm sure it will have a positive impact on production, and of course this is important also because of the avoidance of various malversions from the previous period. The possibility of suspending transfers to local self-government is well criticised if they do not bring in a programme for agriculture. I must tell you that the SVM parliamentary group fully supports this provision. We are aware that there has been malfeasance in some local self-government. For example, land was not issued in time, so some tenants remained in possession. In the next period, local self-government will have to make sure that the land is issued in time and that it is completed within the given deadlines. It is good that land can be leased for longer than three years, and in some cases it is five, or even more than 20 years, in orchards or ponds. This is primarily important because of the investment itself. It should be noted that we support the regulation of the issue of free use of agricultural land which has not been leased in the last three agro-economic years and has not been subject to use, which remains unissued after the end of the lease process in a specific unit of local self-government. This land will be able to be used by legal and natural persons for agricultural production for a period of five years and given the possibility to extend the period of use of that period to 25 years, provided that the agricultural inspector determines that the land is being processed, with the provision of agricultural land over 10 hectares on the use of persons who apply for consent to investment investment. We believe that this will increase the area of state agricultural land that will be leased. It is also positive that in the case of malfeasance, i.e. not paying land leases local self-government will be able to react. For example, he'll be able to take off crops worth the rent. It's a good thing the Lease Commission at the local level is going to have to run an agricultural engineer. So, in the future, experts will have to be involved in the issue of state agricultural land, which will certainly contribute to more efficient publishing and business. So far, the state has not been able to react in such a transparent manner and we believe that this provision will reduce the distortions on the ground. We consider it an extremely good option to buy the state agricultural land itself, for small agricultural holdings that own up to 30 hectares. So far, our producers have not had such a possibility, so we believe that in the future it is extremely important that this possibility exists for farmers who own smaller areas, because they can only stay if they have a chance to increase land in their possession. It is also positive that land purchases are limited to 20 hectares, which is important because as many producers as possible would buy agricultural land. In addition to the positive things mentioned, of course, we have objections, or suggestions. As I mentioned, after our public debate in August, we sent our remarks to the Ministry of Agriculture, and those who are not respected on that occasion are trying to put into legal text through amendments. I've already talked about the main objection, regarding the right to the lease, but I want to underline once again that for the SVM parliamentary group, the most important thing is to issue the property that was not the subject of the lease in the last period and for which there were no interested persons. When the land is leased, foreign investors should also be taken into account. Through the bill, however, they are not excluded from the procedure, according to the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, under the lease on state land, the state of Serbia should favour domestic agricultural producers. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians supports the idea that state land is legally transferred to leases, issued not only to one investor, but also to more investors, i.e. producers. I also have to mention a question of restitution, which is unfortunately a matter of little to talk about. We MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians believe that the land which is subject to restitution must not be sold by any chance, which is in the Bill's proposal and of course we support it to the maximum, however, in the right of the chartering championship, so as to note that it cannot be rented the land which is subject to restitution. We have submitted an amendment on this issue and in conversation with your co-workers from the Ministry of Agriculture, we have come to the conclusion that this is an acceptable solution for all of us. We hope that this amendment of ours will eventually be accepted. We have also submitted amendments regarding the restrictions on the area of agricultural land in the state property, which, under the right of direct lease, can be processed by cattle farmers, thus allowing a large number of herders to exercise the right of cross-referencing. We have suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture do so through sublaws or regulations, and we hope you will respect this same proposal. We propose that land can be leased by a producer who has registered agricultural ownership in the Republic of Serbia for at least three years, i.e. to live for at least three years in a local self-government. As for the purchase of agricultural land, we believe that the years of residence in a local self-government should be increased to five years. Why does it matter? As everyone knows, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia on the right to buy agricultural land for citizens of the European Union has been in force since 1 September 2017. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement allows EU citizens, under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to buy agricultural land. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia has no room for a different application of the Agreement on this matter. This part of the Agreement will come into force and we must respect it. However, through legal provisions, we can tighten the criteria for obtaining the right to purchase land. That is exactly the goal of our amendment, therefore, the condition of a five-year residence would apply to both domestic and foreign customers and everything is in line with the SAA. We have another primary solution not to sell state agricultural land 10 kilometers from the state border. The solution is not acceptable to us, since there is no legal limit in terms of the national limit for the acquisition of property rights on agricultural land. Certain provisions of the Law on the Protection of the State Borders regulate the rights and obligations of owners or users of agricultural land, for example Article 53, as I quote - the owner or user of land is obliged to allow free passage, in order to establish and maintain the prescribed marks in the area of the border crossing, i.e. Article 56(1), says that, for the sake of visibility of the border line, the Minister responsible for internal affairs may prohibit the collection of certain types of agricultural cultures, i.e. the collection of certain types of orchards and trees and other growth within 100 metres of the border line, if this requires reasons and security and at a greater distance. The proposed solution puts farmers who process agricultural land near the state border in a more unfavourable position than farmers who process agricultural land, which is not near the state border, and deprives them of the right to farm land, i.e. to purchase land. According to our proposal, in every purchase in the border areas, the government of the Republic of Serbia should decide, because it is a strategic issue. We hope to accept our proposal, because we believe that all producers should be able to buy land, the same chance should be given to producers from Baimok, Somboro, Šida, Horgoša, Zaječar, Dimitrovgrad, Nova Crnja, Kladova, Čoke, Vršca, as well as producers from around Belgrade. We also suggest that the deadline be paid off in case of purchase of land, from 5 to 10 years old. Right now, you were just talking about such amendments. The objective of the submission of this amendment is to extend the time limit for payment of the price in the wars in the purchase of agricultural land in the state property, as the proposed deadline of five years for small holdings is economically inappropriate, given their profitability and accumulative capacity. It is not possible to build a battery that will allow regular credit service. Finally, I must point out that we have held talks with the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture on our proposals, and in principle we have agreed that our proposals are acceptable. Negotiations are still ongoing, if necessary, we are prepared to submit corrections to our amendments. I am sure that everyone will adhere to the agreed and that we will adopt such a law, which will take care of the interests of small agricultural producers, but speed up the necessary investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44099	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44100	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I think it's rather unusual for the minister here to express great pleasure by adopting these laws. Perhaps he should have gone before the couples who protested for three weeks, though in their villages, because the police did not allow them to leave the streets where they live with tractors, not to reach Belgrade, and to explain to them how pleased they were that this law was being adopted, and also calls on MPs to be satisfied, that you would 30 % of the state-owned agricultural land to give to some of your business partners, under extremely suspicious circumstances and in a completely transparent manner. We of the Democratic Party cannot be satisfied with it, it is unclear how you can be satisfied with it, and when you say you can explain your data to every MP and every farmer. Why didn't Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic go there to their villages, where they protested, but the police did not allow them to move from these villages and they became the only layer of our protesting society that was not allowed to come to Belgrade. The injustice, corruption and damage to farmers are in every member of this law, to every extent you propose, and we will try to convince the MPs that they should not share your satisfaction, because of what the Serbian government is trying to do. Namely, the first motive you state as the basis for lawmaking is absolutely incorrect. You're saying, this is the view of the ministry, that there is no interest in the Law on State Agricultural Land in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which is absolutely not true. That's what the data is talking about. You are Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic in these two and a half hours, as long as the debate, not full for two and a half hours, went out, sorry, with five different data, how much state agricultural land is leased. First you said it was 180,000, when it was a public debate in the presentation you had, you said it was 225,000, now you're talking about 250,000 and so much about how accurate your data is. You will agree that you have said three different numbers, how many hectares and how many hundreds of thousands of hectares in Vojvodina are in the lease. It's no mystery, we can measure it, let's say, according to how much the AP Duke's income is from renting agricultural land. When agricultural land started to be leased for the first time in 2007, the first lease was 200 million dinars, and this year the part belonging to AP Vojvodina will be over two billion dinars, which means that it is ten times more than when this law that we don't think is good, which is now valid, has started to apply. Besides, there shouldn't be some big agriculture expert, it's enough for someone to sit in a car and go 10 kilometers from any populated place in the AP Vojvodina and see that there's no sea of steamed ornaments and untapped agricultural land you're talking about. As it has already been heard many times, I don't think it should be repeated now, Vojvodina has 450,000 acres of state land of which are, say, 200,000 acres of oracin, and the rest are the mornings, pastures, devasted meadows, desserts. So a land that isn't so attractive about what the law does that you don't even consider in this law. So now we have a few problems to face when we look at what it actually says in this law. Let's start with the less troublesome things. You say -- this is about this agricultural land that can be leased under more favourable conditions, or at a price of 0 dinars. Is the law even predicting that this land, that it is a condition for it to be granted under more favourable conditions, has to go to auctions or to two auctions or three, so no one buys it, no one rents it, so you only give it to 0 dinars? No, I don't. You can have some land, which you simply never, ever offered to rent to declare that it was not leased and that you gave it to 0 dinars. So let the game open, so if no one buys it, then you just say, well, no one's gonna rent this land, we'll give it up for 0 dinars. However, you do not do so, and just as the Anti-Corruption Agency said, there is no member of this law that is not corrupt, which does not give the government of the Republic of Serbia the exclusive discretionary right to decide things, of which, Mrs Boskovic, tens of thousands of people live. We, when we had a discussion on the board, talked about how many hundreds of hectares in central Serbia were not taken into the lease of state agricultural land. I'll tell you that in Vojvodina it's been leased, you've just said 250 thousand acres, say, but it's not important for hectares, it's important families that live from taking this land to rent, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, to whom you will take away the basic existence. Between 10,000 and 15,000 families in Vojvodina take state agricultural land to rent and live on it. Half of that number of families live exclusively out of it. Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, the average agricultural household has, say, five members, because they live for generations. It's between 50 and 75,000 people who took out loans, invested in machinery, thought they could borrow land, and now you're letting that country they've leased under completely suspicious circumstances give some of your selected businessmen and leaving these people out of nothing. Now we come to what is most problematic in this law. Let's say this word for the first time, which I don't know why, all the speakers have avoided saying so far, that word is tennis, and it's no secret, and it's a public secret that this law is actually passed because one investor could invest in Serbia, which, by your old, good, justified rule, will be investments paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of which Serbia has absolutely nothing. You have added a whole series of new members who predict that 30% of state land on the territory of each local self-government can be issued for 30 years only to one legal person. First I ask you, why the legal face? Why can't a farmer who also thinks he can buy 30% of the land from the territory of his local self-government do so? Secondly, the question arises - who will be those legal persons and on what basis will these people receive the land for 30 years in lease, which is very many years and very many countries, Madam Minister, I think you'll agree? You are introducing a highly non-transparent procedure here, that is, a commission formed by the Ministry of Agriculture, and we do not know who this commission is, who these people are, on the basis of which criteria you form that commission, is the one with which this potential investor is located and exposes his investment plan, and therefore he gets 30% of the land in one municipality for 30 years. First of all, we have no proof that this is even an investment. Do you ask these people to say, "Yes, I'll rent X, I'll rent a thousand acres of land, I'll hire so many workers per hectare, I'll invest it, I'll do it, I'll do it. No, we don't know how some commission there, which you're going to make, is going to share those people with the country. After that, local self-government has 30 days to declare it. Consider the city of Zrenjanin. The town of Zrenjanin has 25,000 hectares of state agricultural land. This means that some business partner, a friend, an investor, can say that he wants to buy eight thousand acres only in the town of Zrenjanina state agricultural land. This man is meeting with some people from your ministry and after that one meeting these people give to that man under conditions that our couples can't even dream about, they give him eight thousand acres of our most fertile country because he said he had some kind of plan, and you estimated that his plan was good based on something. So that's another problem. Then we come up with something that I believe was a good intention, but you've managed to reason with it, and it's about this famous sale of state land to domestic farmers. What exactly is this about right now? First, it's about you offering them that they can buy some land to expand their property, improve production, etc. You're even, not you, but your associates said yesterday at a meeting of the Agriculture Committee that it's the ultimate proof that the ministry cares about small producers, but what you're offering is completely inconclusive and now I'm going to explain to you why. I'll take another example of the AP Vojvodina. To start with the fact that there are 450,000 acres of agricultural land there and that you're going to give some investor a direct negotiation of 150 thousand hectares. So we've got 300,000 acres left. You will give a third to some of your business partners without any criteria. In Vojvodina, the restitution requirement is between 140 and 180 thousand hectares. It is estimated that 150 thousand hectares are justified. I hope you have no intention of selling to a country that is the subject of restitution or that someone needs to get back into the restitution process. So if you give 150 thousand acres or a third to your business partners, 150 thousand goes into restitution, that leaves 150 thousand hectares of land. As I said earlier, 130,000 acres of land are countries of poor quality, mornings, pastures, etc. Now I ask you - then what will these agricultural producers who are supposed to buy this agricultural land, what will you offer them for sale? I don't think your business partners are going to be taking country 4th and 5th categories. They will probably take the country of the first, second, possibly third categories, so that those agricultural producers you're talking about will not know how to profit from this law remain a bad country, remain in the morning and pastures, which is not the intention of this law, nor will it allow anyone to increase their production capacity. Furthermore, there is a discretionary right of local self-government to offer any land for sale at all. Some local self-government can say no, we're not offering land for sale. Let him offer, let's just say, a country that is known to be the right obstacle to buying, and it will again be intended only for individual agricultural producers, not for all agricultural producers. Some local self-government can offer that country for sale in 20 years, so what you're saying is that for farmers, it's absolutely not good for them. But let's see now that all of this is what I just said, that it's incorrect and that none of these arguments stand when it comes to the right of farmers to buy state agricultural land. Here, let's say we take a farmer, I don't know where they're going, from which money these people are going to buy what you imagine will be very convenient for them. Let's take a farmer, let's say, who owns 30 hectares and will now be given the opportunity to buy another 20 acres, at average prices in the territory of the AP Vojvodina it would, for example, be an investment of 200 thousand hectares, and for a period, you predict that it should be paid, for a period of no more than five years. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, can you tell me what this man needs to grow to earn 400,000 euros within five years without going to jail? I mean, because I believe that there are some cultures that might allow him to earn such a profit, but I don't believe that from legal cultures that he can grow, anyone can earn 400,000 euros in five years, or if you can then recommend to our farmers, I believe that they will mass-use that right and grow what 400 thousand euros can be made of in five years? So, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, what you are offering to help farmers is impossible. They either won't be able to use it, or a country of poor quality will come to them, because all those who are right before them, to get a better country, will get a better country, or they won't have money for such an investment, because they live hard, as all citizens live hard. Speaking of which, yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, you can tell which direction this debate will go. Perhaps the majority of the assembly will justify giving some investors without any conditions and without any criteria a third, as you said, of the only non-renewable natural resource, or agricultural land, by formerly obtaining a country in privatisation. I am now asking the SNS MPs, for all questions on the privatisation of agricultural land, to address Belgrade Mayor Sinishi Malom, who at the time led the privatisation, and as we can see he has granted himself some agricultural land, because no one from the DS now, no one from these benches, has anything to do with any privatisation of agricultural land. Furthermore, we see that you will be talking about how some under non-transparent conditions have been given some right to rent state agricultural land and then probably your answer to what was previously non-transparent, to adopt an even more transparent process in which, under even more questionable conditions, even more suspicious people, your business partners will get the opportunity to rent agricultural land for 30 years, which is the working age of a farmer, which is the life span of a farmer. Finally, since there has been a lot of talk about the SAA, I will accept that this debate is being conducted on a Stabilisation Association Agreement, the moment when all those MPs who point out that this law is due to a Stabilisation Association Agreement, the moment they show where in a Stabilisation and Association Agreement they say that under non-transparent conditions for 30 years some of your selected business partners are giving land, and then we will agree to talk about the SAA. Until then, there are no stories about privatisations either, because ask those in your ranks, where the agricultural land went, there's no story about the SAA, because it doesn't say that 30 years of land can be given to anyone. The only thing we need to talk about here, because the only thing that's on the agenda is that you're going to give a third of the agricultural land under conditions where our couples can't dream of giving their elected business partners, point and do damage to the paors, point and harm the citizens of Serbia for the work of their business partners, which is why who knows which way you're changing the laws, period. This is the theme of today's session, and for all other questions please address people in your ranks, for they will know much better than those of us who are in the DS who have received the land and who are what they have privatized, there is Sinisha Mali for you, so ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44101	The word is from Ambassador Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Sinisha Mali will not be protected, please the cameras. (The MP shows photos during speech. ) This is the president of the party and the financial director of the 2000 party, which can't be talked about, then there goes the order of Djindjic, my colleague farmer, Vlahovic, Cvetkovic, the head of the agency, and then the clerk who exercises their orders. They want to say that we are responsible that we are not responsible for not discussing the privatisation of 2001, 2002, 2003, in which and if the official participated they were in power. Let's move on, the previous speaker was in one other party, also a photograph of her leader, leader number two or number three, who was also with the winner of the transition, because it was said that it was forbidden to talk about it. I don't know why the previous speaker has more rights than I do. Well, then we see a little bit of how that worked. He says that this one between her leader and the financial director of the party in which it is now known as the person with the criminal record. They're a little hugged in 2000, but that doesn't bother. It's also said we can't talk about the SAA. He says who's against the SAA is against the EU. That's not true. The SAA signed was the worst SAA signed by one of the accession members. No country, and it is said here by a colleague that when we enter someone's market, we must not let them enter our market. I agree, but those in the assembly of the SAA as a party that took part in this allowed it to happen eight years earlier, that these would enter our market eight years before we could get on their fully free of customs duties. Number two, in that SAA they also signed that foreigners have real estate, the right to buy property including land five years from the date of entry into force of the SAA, even unilaterally began to apply it for a time only thanks to Lithuania, otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues would have happened in 2014. Why did they sign that SAA? It's because of them. Now I'll explain why. The horse rides who has. The country sells the one who has, and they gave them 300,000 ha of the state country where the country's 100,000 cooperatives, the property of the united peasants, the ones they've damaged for 50m euros sold 300,000 ha of land, but it says -- let's not talk about it today. Now, I want to talk about it. The land today is worth three billion, if it had been issued with the right championship, which they objected to for 30 years, we would have 60 million rents a year, and they sold it for 50 million. By now they'd have picked up over 600 million, by the end of the lease championship if they'd put it in the lease championship and picked up a billion 800, the land wouldn't be worth three billion, but six, which is a third of our debt. That's why I want to talk about it and until it's ruined the peasants, 100,000 of the cooperative land, the property of the united peasants, ended up there, their property now. Everything that was peasant became property of peasants from the city and thus lost the right to reinvest capital near the village. The capital, instead of in the country, went to yachts, for singers, for new breasts, for new lips, for a 49m-long yacht, which is proudly pointed out by the former DS financial director and today say it is the official Sinisa Mali's fault. Watch out, rich. The SAA, which some call upon, is truly a miracle, because no country has signed it, has simply cleaned up agricultural holdings and can be praised by the one who said that out of 45,000 insemination of the sows, millions of freighters have been received. Watch out, 45,000 inseminations, a million tolls, means 23 insemination. Not 13 pigs, 23 pigs. I haven't seen such a miracle since the election campaign in which the cow in the presidential campaign was damaged, so when their cow got damaged, then my house is called a cow. I've never met a farm like that. Today, as I came to the National Assembly, I realized the message sent by Karadjordje, the beginner of the new Serbian state, which says that this is the National Assembly, that it belongs to its people, to all citizens, that through it the citizens have transferred sovereignty to us, and to the government, to govern this country in their name, and to agricultural land in state property. It is not the property of me who handles it, I am talking about state agricultural land, which under the Privatisation Act, as a social good in Article 3, which Mr. Martinovic knows, should not have been the subject of privatisation, but one opinion of Lakovic was stronger than the law and than the Constitution today they object and say – don't talk about it. State agricultural land, property of all people, state community of people, it protects people, people protect the state. They have the right to ask us, and the private agricultural land we don't touch, on the state agricultural land, that the property of seven million people, we're only for their benefit, but the National Assembly, I'm a warrior, my warlord, this law doesn't suit me, I left home. I also have to make a decision on behalf of all citizens, that on this agricultural land that we are processing you have the right to ask us to achieve as much income as possible. In warfare, I reach 1,500 euros, and you now favour livestock, right, Madam Minister? If I have the throat of cattle, I have 2,500 euros, and if we convert it into the right of the hectare lease, we have 5,000 euros, and that's the difference between 3,500 and 3,800 euros, which you have the right to ask those of us who are processing it, to achieve that, as we say, the Netherlands on smaller surfaces, has 80 billion GDP. It is in your interest that we process this land and ask us to finalize it and achieve as much income as possible per unit of surface. That's why I have to decide today, not on my own behalf, as it suits me, that's how they did it, but I've shown it, how it fits my friends, that's what they did, that's what I showed. I have to decide as it suits those who watch this broadcast and those who hear what it's about and about replacing thesis, political parties have the right to present what they want, have the right to represent who they want, but they should be telling the truth. It's not about hundreds of thousands, they've ruined the SAA's measures and sold hundreds of thousands in the village of farmers, peasant land, etc. They want to attribute everything to us. NIS 2008 debts, SSP 2008, Srbigas debts, NIS sales, SSP, all in 2008. Who was in power in 2008? So they say, "Don't talk about it." We have to pay back their debts, patch up their stains, and today those political insolents, who I don't want to defeat or crush, who I respect, who need to find common solutions with us, say we're going to sell something for. Here 181 ha in Kovacica, 84 acres and 68m2 of agricultural land, sold for three euros, for less than 20 euros per ha. It was their policy, their land, their agriculturals. Sugar, comes, with eight million sugar supplies, with combines, machines, apartments, all sold for three euros. Today they're saying we're gonna sell something. Are they against enhanced control, our political insatiables? To strengthen the control of local self-governments, programs, ads, that it all goes in line, to prevent usurpation, to take away crops from usurperants, to run a book of fields, to have a fruitored, 104 million hectares of the EU due to excessive use of mineral fertilisers, and now Europe is resting seven million ha in Srem. She has 53 billion agrarian budget, she can give it to herself. We don't have that right. In order to raise the quality of the land, we must give priority to the cattlemen. Are they against allowing cattlemen to choose the price, that if they do not meet the average price in the municipality, they can choose the middle republic, balance livestock in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? Are our political inextricators against it? I believe they're not, but they are, in fact. Here they said, I don't know, hundreds of thousands, and in total there are 5,400 tenants of which are 1,100 cattlemen, it's 4,300 landowners and who guarantee that on the next lease, each of them will rent land? What if someone comes in, and this old law makes it possible, new no, on the side and immediately in the first round organizes the second round and, like in India, buys everything and no hectare hires those who have machinery in that territory. It's old law. The new law rules it out. Are they against it? They sold 300,000 ha of land that finally small farmers have the right to market prices, not that, large possessions for small prices. Are they against it, yes, small farmers can finally buy a small piece at a market price of up to 20 ha, to be in status for three years, to be resident for three years, and maybe that deadline will extend, and that they have the right to buy up to 20 ha on condition that they do not have more than 30, that they cannot sell it, that they can't rent, and I think that the amendment will adopt that they can't mortgage them, except in favour of the Serbian state. I'm pushing for it to be ten years. Publicly speaking to the government, I have submitted an amendment to make it up to 10 years, so they can buy it easier, but the advantage of buying is the next one, which he pawns the property he buys, so with his extra one he can pay off. I don't think our political associates are against it. I will leave some time for another announcement, but I want to finish with the words of the man I supported: “Some countries have everything, wealth, diamonds, a fertile land, but they are poor and people are not organized. Some countries don't have any of that, but they're rich because people are organized. It's up to people," said one great man, whose words, and many who call on him, won't even recognize them. In the end, the policy that the SAA has produced so far, better introduced, which has made Serbia a cafilarium to export huge quantities of corn, cattle food, and we import everything and everything, in favour of those faces, we have to turn it around. Philosophy is better introduced than produced; it has led us to do so; it is better to fire us than to hire. We have to change that philosophy on behalf of the citizens in -- better produce, better produce than introduce, better hire than fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44103	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Nenad Chanak, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Chanak, you? I'm mentioned, so let me say a word. ) (Alexander Martinović, from the place: No, you are not mentioned. No, I don't. You didn't mention it, Mr. Chanak. (Nenad Chanak, from the city: he showed my photos. ) Photos are, but you're not mentioned. So I can't? ) If you insist, I will give you my word, but there are no terms in the Rules of Procedure to get the word. (Nenad Chanak, from the scene: Of course I insist.) How can there be no conditions? ) Because you are not mentioned, you are not mentioned in a negative context. (Alexander Martinovic, from the site: Not mentioned. ) (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Only Sinisha Malia I mentioned. (Nenad Chanak, from town: Just a picture is it? ) (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Only Sinisha Malia I mentioned. Nenad Canak, from the city: ) (Alexander Martinović, from the site: Not only Canak is it in the pictures. I'm grateful. Suddenly Canak, from the place where the bastard is the most common, you know? ) (Marian Risticevic, from the city: E? Please, Mr. Chanak. The bastard and the thief, because what you've been trying to do... Please, Mr. Chanak. Nenad Chanak, from the place: what? What are you gonna do? Mr. Chanak, if you insist you will be entitled to a replica... (Nenad Chanak, from the place: tell them that...) Mr. Chanak, come on, listen to me. I won't let my family get dirty, that's out of the question. Please... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Becic, what is this about? ) (Alexander Martinović, from the place: Warning. (Nenad Chanak, from the place: That's out of the question. I won't allow it, that's out of the question... I'm taking a break, I'm taking a break. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What did you say? You want to fight? Please, Mr. Ristichevich. Canak, from the city, me to fight? I don't get my hands dirty with shit like you. ) (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Au, who are you. ) (Nenad Canak, from town: Shit. Please, Mr. Risticevic, please don't continue. The People's MP, Nenad Chanak, has left the hall. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What was I doing? He told me I was a piece of shit while you were listening... You're right, you're right, Mr. Canak insulted you as much as possible, and it doesn't seem like a national MP to address his fellow Members like that, but you saw that Mr. Canak was in a state where he could not in any way direct himself to attend a session of the National Assembly in a decent manner. I apologize to Mr Risticevic for not being able to explain to Mr Cank that he cannot in such a way insult his colleague and insult the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44104	Article 106, 107, 108, 109. I don't insist on applying punishment, even because my colleague Mr. Canak, and I'm going to say that for the sake of my suit, and not because of the way he spoke to me, I don't mind keeping him unpunished. I don't think parliament has remembered this kind of insult and threats. I don't think the Serbian parliament remembers it, maybe it's just worse that shooting Radic. I'm glad it happened to me. I don't insist on my colleague Chanko being reminded. I think he showed his true face, I think he showed that he doesn't care about farmers, that he only cares about marketing. I'm saying, I mentioned Sinisha Malia, I mentioned Mr. Cvetkovic, I mentioned a fellow farmer with no name. So I didn't use his name. Whether he was entitled to a replica or not, I can't know that. The words he used I can't repeat here, but I can say that a wise and wise man can't be offended by everyone. In order for everyone to insult me, he must first become someone. So, he couldn't give me a better compliment, and what he threatened me with, there's an old saying - I don't care what the mice think of her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44105	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) I apologize once again for not having had the opportunity as chairman to let Mr. Canak speak to you in such a way. In another case, I would have given the replica to Mr. Chank, but I estimated that there were not enough conditions, but I estimated that the further replica would be an even greater conflict of challenge in the National Assembly Hall and therefore I decided that Mr. Canak did not have the right to reply. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44106	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is certainly important that we are discussing two very important laws in the area of agriculture today, but also the environment, the preservation of the environment, I would say. I believe, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that this is the right moment or almost, it was no longer possible to postpone the adoption of these important laws that are in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of protecting a large and important resource for our country and for our people, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, the law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, as it was said here, has long been expected, has long been prepared. The second law on the protection of land is a law that is at least the first time passed in this region, and it has great significance. I'll tell you about it later. Therefore, this law on changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act proposes a number of solutions, new solutions that need to be improved by land management in state property, both in terms of better use and in terms of achieving budget revenues based on the use of this resource. I would say that there was a chaotic situation in this area and as it has been done so so far, it has given the possibility of major abuses by both local self-government and many others involved. The government of the Republic of Serbia gives this strategic natural resource, meaning land of great importance and these amendments to the laws, these changes for the first time in our legislation found that agricultural land is good for the Republic, which is used for agricultural production and which cannot be used for other purposes and that this land is available and managed by the Republic of Serbia through the competent ministry. So that's a basic and one category that's defined here and that's very important to bring everything else into order. This bill has led a long public debate involving all interested parties and it appears that a number of proposals during the debate have also been accepted. I will say that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in the voting day for both laws because we actually believe that solutions to these laws contribute to responsible governance and much greater exploitation of state agricultural land, as well as the preservation of land as an important resource. I would specifically refer to some changes and goals that need to be achieved by adopting these laws. For the first time, our country by this law, i.e. The agricultural land law, changes and additions, allows small farmers and farmers who own up to 30 hectares, so that they can increase their ownership by buying land another 20 hectares, means they would have up to 50 hectares of farmland. The bill provides for a five-year ransom, but the SPS parliamentary group considers it a small period. We have also submitted an amendment to that effect, to increase that deadline to 10 years. When we talk about a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, of course, through these changes we actually come up with some solutions that are very important, which are in the interest of our agricultural producers to buy it in time, and on the other hand, it is important that the state finds the possibility of real time to buy that land. We have also heard, again, the condition that land can be purchased in local self-government on whose territory the farmer has his residence, or residence for at least three years, that he has registered and active agricultural land, is very important that it is active. To small agricultural producers who in Serbia, this is very important, because they carry the primary basic agricultural production, and yet it is very important for those large producers who need to invest in some cycles, in processing capacity, but by importing this production of small and large producers, there is a real effect. It is important to point out that this law provides primarily for this land that has not been processed for years. Otherwise, according to Serbia, according to the ministry's record, 240,000 hectares of unissued state agricultural land are available. This means that almost half of the total area in state property is undisclosed, unprocessed or, worse still, usurped and that it is actually located in the gray zone. So, a country that claims to welcome a single improvement in the overall plan, to increase its gross product, to get to a better standard, to produce more, to achieve the effect in order to rejuvenate in a different way, cannot allow this kind of chaotic state that existed in this area. I would say that it is important that the law prohibits the sale of purchased state-owned agricultural land within 10 years, and that is also the question, perhaps that should increase that deadline. The SPS parliamentary group also submitted an amendment prohibiting estrangement in the course of the sale contract concerns both progeny and legal followers, not only those who have signed the contract at the moment. Another important segment of this law is the lease of state agricultural land. It is made possible by law to rent agricultural land for a period of 30 years, giving high safety and cost-effectiveness to investors who have invested and who will invest in multi-annual plantings, and this legal solution will also please large land owners who need to start investment cycles to build processing facilities, etc. So the safety of agricultural producers should be significant here to make this all realistic. One of the most important effects of these laws is that agricultural land can buy domestic natural persons and that small agricultural producers, we said, those who own up to 30 hectares. I can't buy it from strangers, and we've often heard ominous comments in this direction, because according to the current law and under these amendments and additions to the law, it's forbidden to sell agricultural land to foreigners. Everything should be done to allow our people, our citizens, producers to enter into the process of buying agricultural land to which they are entitled by the moment the SAA enters into force. As one of the very important outcomes of this law, a much more responsible relationship between local self-government and the use of state agricultural land will also be. Thanks to the irresponsibility of some local self-government, large areas were usurped, and this was, as a rule, the highest quality of land without the state benefiting from its assets. Of course, individual centres of power and those who held a monopoly in this area are against such a single law because certain positions are lost that allowed them to continue to abuse with the help of various entities both in local self-government and in state functions to abuse this great and important state resource. It is therefore important, and this is decided by law, to establish a record, i.e. a register of state agricultural land throughout the territory and thus will no longer be possible to cover up individual parcels, or to use them illegally. It is an obligation for every local self-government to form a precise programme to protect the land's regulation and use, with public advertising and public competition organised in two circles, thus ensuring full transparency, and the law sets out the conditions for the right of direct lease and the right of the charter championship. Another measure of security of the legality of this procedure is that the ministry gives consent to local self-government programmes, so that the state will have insight into each plot. Also, land that has not been issued in at least three last years will be able, through public competition, with a starting price of zero dinars, to be given to the use of active registered agricultural holdings for agricultural production for a period of five years. The law for irresponsible local self-government provides for sanctions, which is certainly good, and any avoidance of the adoption of an appropriate programme to be handled and all transparent, will result in the suspension of transfers, as well as the corresponding salary tax. On the other hand, those who do not respect and usurp this land or use it illegally will be taken away. The law establishes a whole anti-corruption system, which is very important. State agricultural land has been attacked in the so-called so-called so-called agricultural land. Bourage privatisations in the past, during which few individuals came to the highest quality agricultural land and made their great empires. It's very visible today, and there's not much to explain. Prior to the start of privatisation in Serbia, 91 agricultural combinations worked successfully and 108 agricultural goods by privatising, in fact, over 120,000 hectares went into the hands of a small number of landowners who have easily reached the best quality country in Serbia. This kind of privatisation destroyed the farm base, which is the stock fund, destroyed agricultural cooperatives, cooperative networks, especially in warfare and livestock. It has been estimated that this privatisation has left several hundred thousand people out of work. So, of course, these are all reasons for the adoption of this law and when all of this is considered then we cannot come to the conclusion that this is common sense that this is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, it is not in the interest of the Serbian state, it is not in the interest of agricultural producers. This law, once again to point out, strengthens small agricultural producers, as the state has just first made it possible for them to buy state land. This purchase allows small producers to aggregate their property and large ones to be the bearers of one major production, larger investments and construction of processing facilities. Let me remind you that one of the development goals of our economy is the accumulation of small possessions, and another is the objective of which, as a strategic definition, is always spoken by our agriculture minister, which is the security of so-called. three Ks, which means quality, quantity and continuity. On this occasion, I would also like to mention a new law on cooperatives that was on the agenda yesterday, and I would like to welcome this decision by the government, our government, to return to the business scene of cooperatives and cooperatives after many years. First of all, I think of agricultural, or agricultural cooperatives, because I am convinced that restoring farming cooperatives will be a great incentive, giving a great boost to our agriculture. Just a few words about another law relating to the protection of land. The law deserves particular attention because Serbia is the first country in the region to pass such a law. The land is an unrenewable planetary resource and must pay attention to it. So far, water, perhaps by the start of the third millennium, and air had priorities in considering the conservation and improvement of the environment. It is also important to preserve land, and how, at the same level, such as water and land. Land as a resource is a product of biodiversity, a product of what is a living world on earth. If that resource disappears, there's no life on earth. So, through long-term evolution that lasted and billions of years, I'll just say that to restore one centimeter of land with all its properties, which assumes and gives life on earth, it takes about 250,000 years. For these reasons, it is very important to pay attention to this resource, and in terms of its protection and preservation for future generations and for the perspective of civilization on earth. The Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly support these two laws and we express great satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry have put on the agenda these very important laws that are in Serbia's interest, in the interest of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44107	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Mr Zlata Djeric, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Honored Madam Minister with Associates, the aim of every law is to regulate the area and establish rules that will be a consensus for all. We have had the opportunity to follow really a serious tension in society that has arisen in the matter of amending and supplementing this law, but also a very clear and transparent public debate that you have tried to bring to the benefit of those to whom you will apply, and we welcome it from the heart as well. At this point, as already said here, the hardest thing to do is to organize a state. It's one serious and responsible job, almost as responsible as the farm business. One of the most serious and difficult jobs is definitely food production. Farmers or our couples, as we like to say, and I come from those parts where farmers are just as called, so from Backa, are people who are extremely responsible, hard-working, and thanks to their work, we survive. They're often misunderstood, but they don't give up, and that enthusiasm is something that is necessary in this business. When we look at and listen to the criticisms addressed to the law, no law is perfect and no government ever will, no ministry will pass the perfect law to which everyone will be satisfied. That's normal. At this point, in this country, everyone knows he's doing three jobs, and he's doing the best. Everyone knows to put together the best football team to win all the contests, to put together a government that will solve all the problems and know how to make a budget that's the best, but that's just our desert hint. The fact is, we have a lot of problems in this area that produce food, and food is the resource that the whole world cares about, as well as water. In addition, climate change is something that is seriously worrying us, since it directly affects agricultural production. So food production is something we need to turn to and what our future is. Agricultural producers are extremely responsible workers and when we talk about the distribution of opportunities to use state land, they will not take more than they can handle, they will not buy more than they can process, because agricultural production is a production that is linked to a long range of years of planning, because it includes other resources: machinery, labour and everything else. Agricultural producers are the ones who are following us closely at the moment and perhaps most objectively following us. What I wanted to draw your attention to, Madam Minister, and what is important, perhaps by sublegal acts to regulate, the previous speaker touched the topic a little bit, and in some European practices it was resolved, which is monitoring the quality of the land when it was taken over and every year retraced. If you take it into one quality lease, you have to maintain that quality. He can't be lost. You can only promote him. So, as a tenant, you're responsible for running it that way. Agricultural producers are not the ones who do this on purpose, but very often for some other reason, primarily material, technical knowledge or knowledge from the melioration, where they need support, often know that they are losing in the field and that is what is part of absolutely all other resources in the ministry that should be available to agricultural producers. At this point, I wouldn't talk about the amount of land that's at stake, nor does it matter. A hectare of land is a great land for processing, requires a lot of work. I'm someone who comes from a pastoral family and I know how difficult and responsible work it is. At this point in Serbia there is, I think, an estimate, 334.133, registered agricultural holdings, and that is a resource for employment, a serious resource for employment. From what interest, some six thousand people were looking for land to rent, we can see that it's serious, not proportional. That's what to pay attention to. Farmers who have emerged, as potential renters of agricultural land, are a resource that needs to be stimulated to the end. So small farmers need to be stimulated to the end, because they will seriously, surely, and in the long run employ new forces. This is something to pay attention to when adopting other strategic plans, and this is what should stimulate our small producers, small and medium-sized agricultural producers, by 2017, and by this final application of the SAA, to become as significant as possible owners, as many parcels or as many hectares of state agricultural land as possible. Of course, in this respect, the agricultural producers must make sure that the land is not the same category, that there is more quality land, less quality, how to cultivate it, how to use it, what to do with it, and that is something that should certainly be done seriously in the national strategy and always complemented. What I welcome in this law is a stricter approach, a more responsible approach and greater responsibility for local self-government. It's been corruption, and we all know it. We are representatives of citizens, but because of these citizens, we speak, and they know it, every place knows it, how that possibility was misused at the place, that some land should be rented more in quality, one way or another, that a large number of parcels are used for rent to this day, and that no one is paid rent. It's also what needs to be checked, controlled, it's something that's visible, it's easily seen, it's said here, it sits in the car, it's seen what it's doing and how it's managed. It is our definition, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, and our policies, that, above all, the most important and most powerful investors in this country, should be our farmers at the moment. There is an invisible war in the world between resources of water, food and energy, and visible wars are always fought for territories. The land is the territory, we have it, we're here, we need to save it for it to remain ours. I have never been a fan of the fact that foreign investors should come, especially not as agricultural producers, we always know that we work, we are such a nation, we just need to give us the following conditions, and we will indeed be one of the more powerful, securely significant food producers in the EU, quality food in the EU. Since we suffered a serious intervention in 1999, NATO bombing and that is also a factor that will affect our agricultural production and our export capacity from these areas, but in order not to particularly criticise or praise the law, I simply think it is a good one, that it is certainly an improvement, we will support in the day to vote this bill. I think that colleagues from the SPS and the SVM have put a few good amendments to be considered and that I think we should support are really improving these proposed solutions. Certainly, we need to enable us as a country to find our place in this significant resource, in the family of European peoples. When we look at what's been happening to us over the past 20 years, and we've suffered a transition that I personally like to say is a revolution. The transition is nothing more than a revolution. She's not armed, but she's not without victims. Just because the victims are invisible at first sight doesn't mean they're less significant. So what we certainly need as a country to fight, is to recognize us by the quality that we can place, that this quality is well paid, that those who work on it, and work very hard, these are our agricultural producers, these are our farmers, these are our cattlemen, they are satisfied, because only a country, one country, which has rich peasants is a rich country. The country that makes the most of the most difficult production and hard work and working with the most enthusiasm and denials makes it so organized that it is very profitable, has a great position to be rich in the family of wealthy peoples. I think we have a way to get on that path, that we don't need to elementize on every issue, we can fight for it, because we have a tradition in it, a powerful and significant tradition in it. We have another resource that we don't pay attention to again in agricultural production, it's the production of medicinal plants, and this particular production can be based on a land of poor quality that isn't attractive to other agricultural cultures and you know it as an expert, so it's one of the resources by which we're recognizable in the world and we really ignore. So there is a potential for large agricultural production in Serbia. At this point, after all the political turbulence, we came into a situation, and I will gladly quote you one of my experiences, when I was in Moscow, and when a taxi driver from Sheremetjeva airport drove me to a hotel, he asked me where I came from, I say I'm from Serbia, and he asks - how much is Serbia? I say seven million. And he shakes his hand and says: half of Moscow. In Moscow, 7.5 million people work. And when we know that, then we know that everything that we produce in agriculture, in one year, and we know how much work is behind it and how much capacity and energy of resources has been used, then we know that only one Moscow is enough to place it all. We have country status with a privileged position. It's a market that's safe for us, we just need to be well organized and we can be a powerful country, recognized as an inevitable food producer in world terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44109	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, after this long debate, where much has been said, I will just repeat some of the things that I think are important about this law. At the very beginning, I would like to stress immediately that the SDPS Group will vote for both of these laws, and I will pay particular attention to the law on agricultural land. Why? Well, because of the fact that this law better regulates what we have, it's state agricultural land. State agricultural land has been the target of all possible manipulations so far and the introduction of order for me means that the state and how it will benefit from what it will do. The agriculture we say is our development opportunity has been systematically destroyed. I will not speak, and colleagues have already talked about how large agricultural combinations have been destroyed, not because of the improvement of this, but in order to achieve a very quality country. Those who destroyed it are now rich, we now call them tycoons, I'd call them latifundists, because they've really come up with a lot of wealth for a little bit of money, a little bit of money invested. And I've always fought in all my exhibitions that all the protections that went and all the help they needed, they don't need those rich, they have enough money, they have enough opportunities to invest, they don't even invest in our country, they go abroad where they have fertile soils to multiply their capital. Looks like they're done with us. I'd go back to those small and medium-sized farmers we're talking about right now. Why do I say that? Besides these big ones, I'm talking about Vojvodina, because I come from Vojvodina, I know very well, you have one number of these so-called so-called "Vojvodina." mediums using politics, political ties, have come to rent large amounts of state agricultural land. I call them falsified peasants. Why? Well, they're not farmers, they don't do land, they do other jobs in town, but using political ties, they've come to rent agricultural land and they're big areas. I will give an example that was shown in one place, a piece of a state agricultural land of 80 hectares has been given to an individual who has nothing to do with agriculture, lives in the city, there it shows that he has a long-standing vineyard, and there is no "v" of the vine. The state gave him 12,000 incentives when given. He only paid the state seven and a half thousand. Of course, he leased those 80 hectares immediately, and then leased 200 euros. So, to this X, an ipsilon that was only connected to the political party, we used to give the political party 20,000 euros in our pocket every year. Well, of course, he's a successful businessman now, well-known, but that's why many individuals who actually deal with agriculture, who live in the country, are increasingly poorer because they had to work for him, use their machinery and give him that 20,000 euros in his pocket. It's because of these falsified peasants, as I call them, that the introduction of order in this area is something that is very important, something that is very important. My colleague was talking about our food, about our food that's extraordinary. I was recently in Russia, in Moscow where we were first told – yes, your Serbian food is extraordinary. It's something we're going to use and what we want to have, but also give those real agricultural producers who produce these foods, and not those mechanics who import and sell under Serbian food. Of course, in Russia they soon found a way to figure out what was going on. So our pledge is for a village, for a small and medium-sized farmer who lives on agriculture, who needs to be stimulated and who needs to be tied to agricultural cooperatives, to the compulsory purchase of some products that are very important, that he knows what the price is waiting for him and such people to stimulate. It will be a way to keep young people in the village. I absolutely agree with the purchase of state agricultural land and that's exactly what I want to point out. True, those five years is a small period, if there's any banking stimulation, it'll be good. Before this debate, a village acquaintance of mine called me and said – please talk about it, because I want my son to stay in the country, I want him to work and live on agriculture. That's why I think these laws that we're making today, or that we're going to bring, mean a step forward. Of course, someone will say yes, so there's a protest. Let's see who's protesting. Is it those who process the land or those who force their workers to protest instead? Let's go and say it openly. Do we need to stimulate someone who already has 100 acres of their own country? I don't want to fight for that. I will fight for him who lives from his work, who does not manipulate, who comes in a fair way and earns his wages, earns what he can from the earth. Also, this other Law on the Protection of Agricultural Land will be supported, because that real peasant, not a falsified peasant, knows very well, in order to get the land into the country you have to invest, you have to protect the country, because then she will pay you back multiple times. If you don't, then you'll get into a situation very soon so you don't have any of it. Since my colleagues said a lot of things, I really agree with them. At the very end, let me say again, the SDPS will vote for both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44111	I thank you, Mr. Miatovic. Since we do not have more than authorized applicants, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is Mr. Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44112	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two legislative proposals before us, and I would say that it is a key and very important, extremely important and important law, laws that are very important for the conduct of agrarian policy. In my presentation, without the intention of reducing the importance of the Law on the Protection of Land, I will put an accent on the amendment and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land, and in the follow-up of today's debate, my colleagues will look back and, of course, talk about the second legislative proposal. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land shows, in our opinion, and confirms the clear intention, intention and intensity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry to finally introduce order in land policy, land policy, that land owned, land owned and well-being by all citizens will be used primarily in line with the interests of citizens, or particularly in line with the interests of Serbian farmers. In accordance with the practice of the previous period of time, the data you presented by the Minister in the opening presentation is clear that at this point we need both a more rational and celery and an economical use of agricultural land, i.e. State property and state property. We believe that the proposal that we are talking about on one side today is a guarantee of both better and fairer use of agricultural land, which is of great importance and importance to small agricultural producers, but on the other hand, this legislative proposal is guaranteed to finally put an end to the problem and solve the issue of land usurpation. It must not be allowed, we fully agree with you, that the state land represented by one of the most significant state resources is being used irresponsiblely and that according to such use, individuals for the reasons known to them alone benefit. During today’s debate, findings and opinions could be heard that because of the legal proposal that we are talking about today, some small farmers want to lose their land, or they will have no land to farm. I have to agree with my colleague Mihajlovic and say that unfortunately they do not have this land today, because the long-standing practice at the local level speaks unfortunately in favour of the findings expressed by his colleague that a significant part of the most qualitative land has been constantly issued to the same persons, i.e. in fact, it seems to me that he has not been even issued, that he has remained uncounted, and that after some of the quiet consents of the same person appeared, entered into possessions and processed them without compensation. We believe it is very important that what we expect from this legislative proposal, that we finally get an answer to the key question – who usurped agricultural land in Serbia, but also to get answers to the question – and who uses legal agricultural land, in a legal way, agricultural land owned by a state, which is state property? When we get answers to these questions, then we will also get answers to the question – and who and why is it that today, in Serbia, the final order is being introduced in this area? We think it is very important to reach a compromise of all stakeholders, that it is very important to achieve the broad consensus on the government's relationship, the agriculture ministry, farmers, associations and representatives of associations, but also if there are open issues then the open issues are resolved through dialogue, then the open issues are resolved through conversation rather than street methods, it is not a way to resolve open issues if they exist when it comes to this system law. But it is very important for us as a Parliament club that the Ministry has seen all the suggestions and suggestions that have arrived from farmers, associations and associations and that it is simply said, all that could have been accepted at a given moment, and that this does not mean being placed on one side, one of the agricultural branches. So not all wishes can be fulfilled, it's simply not real, but it's very important that most of the suggestions and suggestions that came from farmers, associations and associations are seen and respected. We fully agree with you that the situation in agriculture is such that it requires urgent and rapid solutions. The bill that we are talking about today is encouraging and attracting investments in agricultural production. Investments are very important, in our opinion, they should provide faster development, on the one hand, they are important for agricultural producers, above all, for small agricultural producers, because they provide safety and a guarantee of plasma. Also, the question has been raised here – whether this law opens the door to some tycoons and whether it favors some tycoons in Serbia, when we are talking specifically about renting agricultural land. Of course, no, the government will regulate certain issues in more detail, therefore, through regulations. It is not intended to be agricultural land that is a very important resource, gifts to anyone, and we are convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no intention of favouring anyone. When we specifically talk about renting, I want to say some things that are for us as MPs, we think they're very important when we talk about renting agricultural land. Here, first of all, I mean a clear investment plan, where, first of all, we think of a clear business plan, which must be in line with the needs of local self-government, local level. First of all, we're referring to a clear plan of cooperation with local farmers. First of all, we think it is very important to look at, which is the number of new jobs and it is very important to see the contribution, increase and improve agricultural production in Serbia. For the first time in its history, there was little talk about it, we also think it is very important, so for the first time in its history, Serbia decided that part of its agricultural land would also offer to buy small agricultural producers and thus strengthen and strengthen small agricultural producers, but on the other hand, when we speak in the context of the lease, so small agricultural producers can also join and thus become potential investors. So, the country does not sell to tycoons or foreigners, and it does not define this law, this law deals, therefore, with the sale of the country to small farmers, on clearly defined criteria, and that is something that we know about what is agreed with farmers, which is agreed with associations and associations. Correct me if I'm wrong. The sale of land to foreign and natural and legal persons is absolutely prohibited and in accordance with the current Agricultural Land Act, but also according to the proposed amendments and additions of the Agricultural Land Act. But I will repeat what our authorised representative, distinguished colleague Miletic Mihajlovic, has already been able to sell the country to foreigners in the past, through privatisation, above all, Serbian businesses, have also come into possession of a country owned by these companies. Much earlier, the door was opened to foreign, physical, and legal persons, so that they could become the owners of the country. A few minutes a colleague asked a question, since we didn't get an answer, I'm going to ask you that question again. So, before privatisation started in Serbia, 91 agricultural combinations and around 108 agricultural goods worked successfully. Our question is very specific – how many agricultural combinations and goods does it work today and works in Serbia? Is it true what counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic was talking about, that 120,000 hectares of the country ended up in somebody's possession, and that the state lost tens of millions of euros, Serbia's agriculture suffered enormous damage, that about 500,000 jobs were shut down, that the stock fund was destroyed, that the co-operation of tens of thousands of cattlemen was shut down, and that the key link in the chain of agricultural production and the development of the Serbian economy? And, the key question, when we talk about agricultural combinations – did small agricultural producers then have the opportunity to participate in the privatisation of the combinations they created themselves, which they built themselves? It is true that on 1 September 2017, and you talked about it, it is effective to fully implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that it is causing a lot of problems, above all, because of the poorly negotiated processes. But I don't want to talk about what happened and how it happened in the past, because I think today, when we talk about a specific topic, it won't do us any good. I believe that you will continue the talks in the period ahead of us and that you will be able to find a solution that will, in the right sense, be a protection for agricultural producers in Serbia. We believe that this law wants to contribute to the preservation of agricultural land as a natural wealth through an orderly system of control. At the beginning of today's debate, one conclusion was that it was all over and that this was how MPs in the republican parliament behave, when we talk about this legislative proposal. On the contrary, we believe that nothing is finished, we in principle support this legislative proposal, but of course we used our right as MPs and submitted a number of amendments. In particular, we will talk about this when the debate is in particular, but let's say, one amendment suggests that farmers can buy state agricultural land in wars for up to 10 years, instead of five years, as the promoter predicted, and we believe that the payment deadline offered gives them a greater opportunity for small farmers to buy larger land areas and so large properties they have. So it's one of the amendments. We believe that nothing is finished. We accept and support legislative proposals, of course, in principle and are ready for discussion in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44113	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a folk MP, Borislav Stefanovic, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, dear colleagues, we have another law, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which is essentially another Lex Specialis, another special law for your business partners. Not many who have been wrong until these days, to this debate, and today spoke of the so-called "Tenis" law. All Serbian citizens should know that while we are talking here, there is always hasty communication between the prime minister's office and a potential German investor, and perhaps some other future Latifundists, who will come up with huge land properties in our Vojvodina. There were those who bought and got land before, according to earlier laws, during previous authorities, and we've heard a lot about it. As the new owners took the land, as they did today, and I add, they already have five times more lands in possession of all the Dungerians and all those before World War II, who had hectares, for example, only in Vojvodina. What did you do? You have not touched these people, nor Matijević, nor Miskovic, nor Kostić, but have been associated with them. You're doing things together. Someone mentions Vlahovic, the man, president of the Union of Economists of Serbia, one of the closest prime ministers of philosophical, theoretical associates who exist in this country. A man who most justifies all these measures, the neoliberal capitalism that the Progressive Party is carrying out, of course limited, not in every sense, not for subsidies. What's a fact is that 240,000 acres of land has not been issued. This adapts, respected citizens for an investor from Germany. The goal is to assign a third of the country in an atar, directly by means of a four-eye contract through the government's commission in the ministry to a particular investor, while during that time more than 10,000 of our farmers will be left without a country they can process, and for 30 years it is done. And then how can anyone here, especially the ones with the so-called. A nonexistent quasi of the left spectrum of political, to speak, I understand for the advances. What are you talking about? You can't see you're making a monopoly. You can't see that you're giving the key to the hand and the knife and the cake to the foreign investor or the domestic tycoon, directly by contract, gentlemen, by direct contract. The man who ran one of the men's protests at the farmers, took part in the draft of this bill, thought he could agree with you, thought the profession was above your policy for you. What a delusion. Another Widowsman, in a crowd of Widows. There's no deal with you. It will be as the prime minister said, and the prime minister said -- it will be given to the country "Tenisu", and that is true. That's the darkness. Why did the paratroopers block our roads? Why didn't anyone go talk to them there? Why did those who bought the country while Sinisa Mali ran the tender commission at the Privatisation Agency not process it. Why doesn't he do something to them? Why don't you pay them extra taxes? Why don't we determine their origins? Why didn't you follow this order? Why? Why don't you do an agrarian reform of the minister? Why not give these thousands and thousands of hectares to employed young farmers who are in the National Employment Service registry, they have at least one hectare in possession. Why don't they split the country for 30 years first? That's what we're proposing. That doesn't suit you. And what doesn't suit you? He says the ground is unworked, so, look, make it work. Does this mean that only an investor or a tycoon who has money will come here to rent huge areas of land, so-called land. To build up the property, to drive 200-euro tractors to our parors, that's what you want. This law is bad, it's harmful, it's destructive, people will lose their income. You are giving the key to large capitalists who will take the country's large possessions and therefore left-wing Serbia cannot vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44115	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44116	Dear MPs, it is absolutely not true that the law is a lex specialis. The law has been prepared for a longer period of time. Agricultural associations, sciences, professions took part in the preparation. Thus, not a word of what was done overnight, not a word of how something was done by emergency procedure, not a word of “Tenis’s Law. ” It's about a law that we want to establish order, and it's about a law that we want to fix that can be fixed. Just now, the MPs, some of them were talking about what the situation was like, how many agricultural combinations were destroyed, how many agricultural goods were missing, how did that happen? We have data from 2002 to 2011, the agricultural combinations slowly disappeared, at auctions, through tender procedures, the missing agricultural country, the highest quality, ended up in the hands of wealthy individuals. You say today, they're tycoons and we work for tycoons. It's time for someone to say who the tycoons are and do they have a name and a last name? Where did we find those tycoons? You're saying, we want some of our friends now, some of our business partners, to give the best country. That's not true. We want the state country to work and our farmers, but also those who are willing to invest to recover what is returned can, restore processing capacity, restore refrigerators, milkers, etc. Why? Because they're important to our agriculture. You know very well that you have destroyed our agricultural development column in Serbia and we have to start with something, and we will not endanger our domestic little farmer, who I just said is based on our agricultural policy and we are counting on him in the future. You're saying you're telling us now that we're going to give the country a government lease for 30 years? Mr. Stefanovic, this lease is the same for the right of the championship and for the right to interfere and for all those participating in the public competition. I have to tell you, so far it's been worth the lease, the state land could have been leased up to 20 years. Why did we increase to 30 years? Because that's what our cattlemen were looking for. Here, gentlemen, the corpus delict, they, having all participated in the preparation of this law, pointed out that, as their request, the first request, that the lease be 30 years, because they consider it to be an optimal time when they invest in farms, in small processing facilities for the processing of milk, meat, etc., that it is the time for them to return. So, gentlemen, the deadline has been set by our farmers, our cattlemen, our milkers, and you know it, and today we have heard from many MPs that cattle farming is the basis for every farm's development. You're saying these investments will be the subject of a direct contract. Please don't spread panic. Find a member of the law where it says so and let's see clearly, publicly and loudly to say citizens, here's this minister with her team suggested that it be a direct contract. You're saying they're protesting couples, and you're not saying what they're protesting and who's protesting from a pair? We didn't go to the steam, we didn't leave, because they didn't even call us. They came, we talked, and there was no need to go now, because we're in the field all the time, we're with them all the time. We're talking. Why are they protesting? Because some of them are irresponsible individuals, instead of saying what they've done and why we've come as far as we've come, they're now misinformationing them, spreading lies. They say we're gonna sell, we're gonna give our friends. What friends, what tycoons? We don't want to sell, we want to sell, but only to our farmer and because they've been getting false information, misinformation, lies, here I've just shown, here's when people see this and when you call them on the phone and you tell them that we're the ones who are going to rob and carry everything now, there's nothing to rob or take away. Everything that could, it ended. So that's why those people strike. You know how, our farmers, the vast majority, work a lot, work hard and take a lot of time to work and they don't have a simple, I don't think they're frames, that they're not able to recognize everything that a politician is capable of, because of some cheap political point, to say. Normally, people uninformed, people scared, people confused and come out and strike. But they know that they can always come, that we will always talk and that everything we do, we are doing in the interest of farmers, in the interest of agriculture, not in the interest of tycoons, not in the interest of individuals, not in the interest of those that we have just heard before that it is always those who win the bidding, always those who get the best land. Never can that little farmer be equal, nor can it come to what he wants, and that's what we won't allow anymore, we want to change it, and I'd like you to actually say - people that and that's not good. Let's see why it's not good, what you're suggesting. When we had our consultations, all the parliamentary groups were, we talked, we answered questions. We know it's not easy, it's really not easy to make an ideal law. I said why I'm pleased. I'm happy because everyone's a little satisfied with farmers and a little bit dissatisfied, but none of you people have offered anything that I would consider to be considered, even moreover, farmers have some suggestions, but politicians don't have any. So, other than saying pull, they don't say what you pull. So as much as we have honestly approached this business and as much as any of us here care about Serbian agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44117	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a two-minute replica. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44118	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. I have no doubts about your good intentions. I have no doubt that you want the best of our agriculture. What I'm saying as a suspicion and as a problem is that it never happens, and then when we catch you in the obvious flagrant violation of all possible civilizational, if you want and inherited norms, where our patron and farmer learned and knows how to process and live from his country, then you say, we have inherited; a famous sentence. Your party has been in power for 25 years, 22 years in power. I don't know if you realize you've been in power for 22 years in this country. How do you have the political courage to say - you're there, some have destroyed? Talk to your boss, please. Second, there are no conditions for an investor to have to deal with agriculture. There isn't. There is no possibility that public criteria, public disclosures for people who rent agricultural land, have no criteria publicly published. You say the couples are uninformed, and that's why they're protesting. Dear couples, farmers, you are uninformed, because you want to fight not to get one man, a legal person, a foreign legal person, to rent for 30 years. You say 30 years is wanted. All right. But these people were doing it with the thought that one of them, that some consortium of our farmers, that our people, through public competition, would be able to win for 30 years, don't sit with them in the cabinet and make a deal. And what's worse and you know it's already agreed with Tennessee, you've agreed ahead, you do it all the time. You make a deal and you make a law to cover your deal. That's how you worked for other projects, like "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44119	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44120	That's not correct. Admit it at least that much, be honest with the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44121	Thank you. The word has a minister, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44122	Just for a little while. As for the SPS that I belong to, I have to say that it is well known that after 2000 the SPS was against the Privatisation Act, that it has not participated in the government for many years, and when it took part, it has never led a farm resolution. In doing so, I must also say that she did not have a minister in the competent ministry, but she did not have a secretary of state. So much for political belongings. In doing so, I am not running away from responsibility, from the responsibility of my party, when it comes to issues in the area of agriculture. But you have to make it clear and concrete what the SPS didn't do and it could be about these issues that we're talking about today. Please, so don't change the thesis. Thirty percent, so land up to 30% doesn't say in the law anywhere that it's for a foreign legal person, that it's for an apartment company, that it's for "Teniz," and that's why I'd have to say that we'd be running away from a company that would invest funds, that would raise the processing facilities that have been destroyed, which would help local farmers. You well know that one of the burning problems of our small farmers is the fact that they can't place their products. Which is why we would be this resource that is the resource of all Serbian citizens, not only belonging to the resources of that local self-government where it is located but also to the resource of the farmer in Srlig and that farmer in Cačka and the one in Subotica. So it is a state resource that all citizens of Serbia must benefit from, and only up to 30%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44123	Thank you, Minister. Two minutes, the rules apply to everyone. The word is Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44124	I see this time is more used for asking questions than for some democratic debate that should serve the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I will join that question. Who is responsible for the period 2001 to 2012 which destroyed 38 agricultural combinations in the AP Vojvodina? Who is responsible for liquidating 109 agricultural goods and cooperatives? Who is responsible because in the AP Vojvodina in 12 years, 20,000 rural houses remain abandoned and empty? Who is responsible for the fact that 200,000 hectares of social property and 100,000 hectares of cooperative property were privatized and sold into depravity, and 18 thousand workers were fired? Who's responsible for being in the AP Vojvodina 37% of the unprocessed country or country in the parlogum? Who is responsible for the decline of agricultural participation in the AP Vojvodina GDP from 22% to 12%? Who's responsible because every third privatisation has been cancelled? Who is responsible for buying the country for 300 euros, and now it's worth 7,000 euros? Who is responsible because the country has been sold to foreigners, so let's say 22 thousand hectares were sold to the Irish company "Baltic" in Serbia's Miletic, Brestovac and Feketic, Agrokor" 6,000 hectares, CBA from Hungary 2650 hectares, "Zitogroups" from Croatia two thousand hectares, "Hajduavis" Hungary 1500 hectares? It's not enough that ladies and gentlemen will sit down, first feel uncomfortable in their party, so sit down in the second or last bench, change the name and forget everything you've done and what you're responsible for. Who is responsible for the ill-assembled Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Who negotiated a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and whose pen was deep, high actually in the air when that signature was placed on that document?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44125	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are talking about agricultural land, how to exploit this potential of ours and there is always one wish from fellow Members of Parliament to present this as some secret session. It's not a secret at all, the law wasn't secret, it was in procedure, it was in public debate, we talked to agricultural producers, and I'm all the way here in the National Assembly. And about most things they agree, they make agricultural producers, not those who have imaginary associations, who are mauled so that one of these laws doesn't see the light of day, so even in this congregation, to the soul, not in this debate, I've heard that pigs pollute the human environment. So, come on, a domestic animal that has repeatedly saved the entire Serbian people through history pollutes the environment. You were even willing to say that, just to create a mood in which someone's interests or interests would protect themselves. I agree that political interest exists and it should exist when a law is passed, especially with the party that does not support the government of the Republic of Serbia. I also accept the fact that the work of the former regime, or opposition, is that they want to show that the situation is much worse than it is, they want to show that the laws are bad that they would do better, etc. We have now come to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I can tell you, I come from Pogorec, most colleagues know, from Braničevsky County, from the Tiška plain, it's the second Serbian cereal. Earlier, Požarec and Braničevski County had a agricultural industrial combination of Požarevac, short-lived PIK Pogorjevac. He was the tenth in the old SFRY, the sixth in Serbia. He had completely rounded production continents, divided into warfare, livestock and agricultural-processing industries. Since PIC, where my parents, father as a graduate cattle engineer, mother as an accountant at that same firm, won pensions, there is nothing today. We're talking about agricultural land and we're talking about the interest of peasants. I purposely said that agricultural production is divided into agricultural production cycles and there is no serious farm industry in Braničev County. The reason why there is no serious farm industry is the following nature – there is no more slaughter. And in the rest of Serbia, except for three slaughterhouses in Vojvodina, one slaughterhouse, it seems to me to be "Juhor", there are no more slaughterhouses that meet all of Hasap export standards. What did we bring down our agricultural industry to? Four slaughterhouses. Someone says it again - the slaughterhouse, well, that's something. The slaughterhouse is for those who attack this law, to learn, the slaughterhouse is a top agricultural processing production. There is nothing more than a slaughterhouse of agricultural production. To get that pig to the slaughterhouse, it takes a lot of people to engage, a lot to be employed, a lot to do to get out of it to get to the slaughterhouse. Once when I spoke to the famous chairman of the Board of Directors of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, when I asked him a question, the former, from the former regime, did he know how many people employ a slaughterhouse that has 500 people on the line of slaughter, he says – well, probably twice as many. No, he hires 70,000 people. There was no accidental destruction of the meat industry in Serbia. It was done with purpose. It wasn't only important to import. This is the secondary consequence of the colossation of huge money and the exploitation of agricultural producers in the small sector. Because when you destroyed the meat industry, you destroy the farm industry. When you destroy the farm industry, now we come to agricultural land, the warlords that produce it, whose is it? Whose warlords make. Serbia is one of the largest cereal producers. For the uninvited, that includes corn. Whose is it? It's a stock exchange. For cheap money, they bought it and sold it all over the white world. Would you like to list names, tell us who your friends are, how you took pictures with them, how you hugged and kissed them? Now someone is defending the interest of these agricultural producers. Who? The same one that put the maltenes in a semi-slave relationship ten years ago. We take care of them, because if you knew, you'd know that, say, one of the biggest vegetable parts of the Peck Valley. Look at the villages out there, how you desecrated them. In some villages in Braničevsky County, in the Plains of Stig, there are only now people. In ten days, there won't be a dog barking at you. Villages that were rich. Now you defend the interest of those you have completely destroyed. You're not defending their interest. You defend the interest of the same ones that you have made of the biggest rich people in Serbia, to exploit what Serbia has the most valuable, which is agricultural land. They don't have to be owners, it's enough that they don't have a processing industry, that Serbia doesn't have a processing industry and that they come cheap, almost free of charge to make big profits. While that peasant you're supposed to be defending, a plow, shoots his back in the fields, do you know what it looks like in the field? Does any of you know that? I know, for 20 years I've been working on a combine, I've passed more grains than Mr. Balša Bozovic has seen in his life, so he's telling me about agriculture now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44127	I ask the messengers to speak to me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44128	I just said he never saw it again in his life. One of these laws finally cleans up those monopolies that were. Someone said yesterday that we're in a hurry with this session, it's going to be an election campaign. Well, yesterday we had the Cooperative Act, today the Agricultural Land Act. It's over with the monopolies. In symbiosis, these two laws will have farmers who will be able to join together, be competitive, create conditions for serious investors to come to Serbia. What does anyone mind, tell me, that a million pigs are produced in Serbia in a year? Well, they'll work and shelters for seed goods, they'll work plant protection, they'll work for Azotara, they'll work for us the factories that produce plant-eating products, they'll work something and this little agricultural industry that we've saved from you, that you haven't been able to destroy, will work the PAC centers, will work everything out, because Serbia has lived through the centuries from agriculture. This isn't where the tractor factories, vans and cars were made to be exported, but to not be imported and to allow our peasants to work, and you've been very, very perfidious, very successful in destroying it. Now you're taking care of that peasant you've been destroying. No more. No more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no There is someone else who will worry, who wants these people to stay in Serbia, stay in the country, have their plans, have their future. The rich gentlemen, well, they'll lose their monopolies. We can't do anything to them. You've made such a legal regulation that we can't possibly prosecute them. I agree, they like to run when they see the President of the Republic, stand next to him, when they see the Prime Minister, but we don't call them, we don't hang out with them. We are not making plans or writing laws with them, but with those whose interests we protect when we pass the law, and you were protecting the interests of those very tycoons that my colleague Risticevic used to call and show pictures here. There is no future in Serbia and there is no economic development and no GDP growth until agricultural production begins to have its top shape, which is the processing industry. It can be meaty, it can be vegetable, but it can finally be there. I remember a time when Fruit Product from Pogorec worked four shifts to export to Germany. We can do that now, we have these resources, but we don't have anyone to make a new Fruit Product, since you ruined that old man, where my father left half his life. That's why I support these laws. You can talk as much as you want and you can distract the people as much as you want. When these laws apply, we'll see who was telling the truth and who was defending the interests of the tycoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44129	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. There is no basis for replication. Read Article 104 and item 3 in particular. So, I like the way Gordana Comić ran the sessions, either she gave the replica or she didn't, but she didn't explain anything. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Learn to behave once. I gave my colleague my word. Sit down, if you don't want a warning. You want a warning? You have a warning. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44130	The president, a respected minister, co-workers of the ministry, today we resent that we speak politically of agricultural land, and that may be the complaint that the minister is telling every MP from the opposition. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina in some segment and speaking politically. You showed the flyer and you said there was a lot of untruth on it. I'd like you to tell after me what lies are on that flyer you showed, which we represent your law and everything in it. I may not talk today, in a way, politically, but I will talk about the country emotionally, but not in the way other MPs have spoken, but with some kind of emotionality, because I come really from the village, I come from the municipality where the country was issued, in fact sold "Al Dahri", was sold to a foreign investor who, for the time being, can be said, has not shown much in some of the investments that are being spoken of in this law and which should be brought to new investors. I was simply against it, and when that country was being sold, in fact, those four thousand and 200, I don't know how many, 270 acres, in the tower community, from which I come, in Sivc, and I know what's going on in Gydobra. I was simply against it, and I said that hundreds of young families would run out of land, or they would lose their jobs. That's kind of what happened. Because four thousand acres and not a lot of people are employed anymore. There's about 30 people working there. From that land, out of four thousand acres, lives 30 families. I was because LSV was then for this country to be leased by young couples living in this municipality. Then it would live, not 30 families, but 130 families from that good country belonging to the Western-Baba County, and it is known to be the most quality country perhaps in all of Serbia. The second thing I would talk about is that this year, the UN, 2015, has been declared an international year of land. This year, unfortunately, by ending this year in some way, I'll say freely, we're destroying young couples in our villages. You're saying they'll all be provided to buy that land. I don't see what money young couples are gonna buy that land from, how do they get the loans? They've already taken loans in some way, we know about tractors, we know that our tractors are already 30 years old, etc. Our young couples won't be able to buy that land. That's one problem. Second, that is what is said, they will lose their jobs, without what will keep them in the country. In the community I come from, in 1988, 17 thousand people were employed in the economy, and now there are 820 employees. It's education, health care, etc. People who somehow stayed in that environment to live thought, had the only hope that they could live on agriculture. Generations that came to Vojvodina 260 years ago did not come to this entrenched land, but came to a land that was a swamp. They've survived seven plagues, the 13th, 14th generations so far, to enlarge this country. So do not blame us for speaking of this country as we come from Vojvodina in another tone or another emotion from some other MPs who may come from a region where the country is not so native and where they may not be so attached to a fertile land, such as the Dukes, we who come from the Vojvodina. That's why I'm so sorry that everything is politicized. No, it's not politicizing. I just think it's about young people's lives and a few generations. If this country is released for 30 years, children now 10 years old, they'll be 40 in 30 years, so how do they start a life in agriculture? Not at all. They'll either get out of this country, or they'll just have to go into town, or they'll be a rental labor force, which will be very scary. It is said that the country is sold only in one family problem, which is if someone in the family is sick. In other cases, the land is not sold. So, for health, the only thing that sells is the country. For all that other land is not sold. Next year, the country will have a baby. I can borrow money and just keep the family going. That's why he needs to be very careful about this. In response to the discussion, you said that no one suggested anything and that we, for some, were plowing the steam. You can't push anyone into something that a normal man, a man who may be uneducated, can't get in the way of anything. So, if it's about his life, he's thinking with his common sense. I think it's very wrong of you not to pay more attention to people. Public debates are good, all of which may have brought some results, but they're kind of offended that no one ever really talked to them and what they were saying was not true, that simply the law wouldn't do it. I can tell you that there will be very little in Vojvodina, when we calculated how many countries a pair can buy, that's about 60 thousand acres. If you have 300,000 acres on Vojvodina territory, according to new law, at 30 years, 30% is 120,000 hectares, simply what is taken for restitution, etc. We calculated that very little will remain for our young couples to buy, and eventually they have nothing to buy land for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44131	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44132	Thank you. I just don't get it, President of the National Assembly, why won't you let me take part in the debate on this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44133	Tell me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44134	He is a member of the 104th century 1, 2nd and 3rd. I have no option, although I am mentioned in a negative context, to participate in the debate under a very important law, which you have provided very little time for the MPs to prepare, which began at nine o'clock, although it had previously ended sometime after midnight. I think it is very important that because of the quality of this legal solution allow me to face some arguments with some of my unthinkers in this home. I think I'm right about that. If you think I have no right, then you can feel free to say that there are MPs in the first and second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44135	Ambassador, on the fifth of November, this law arrived in the procedure. I think you could have prepared well since the fifth of November. I assume you're doing this job that the citizens have chosen you for. I'm glad you quoted an entire member. Article 3 is very important to understand. So it's not enough to have someone mention your name, so sometime you can make a deal with the MPs, so you've got nothing out of the lines, but this time you can't. (Balsa Bozovic: So we can make a deal? It's my right. You're the one who listed Section 3. Since 5 November, and yet the minister has indeed held consultations with all MPs and parliamentary groups, I don't suppose she should speak. Therefore, it is not important to say what is said, but to think carefully before it is said. Is it your right to vote on the injury? Yes, thank you. Now the minister first to respond to Oleni Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44136	Dear People's MPs, your discussion speaks enough about how hard we've had the hard, serious job we've been given a responsible task. Because you speak for the Duke, and you speak so differently from many associations that have just been with us, who have worked with us, who have even prepared this first segment, or draft law. You're talking about that the country isn't for sale, and I have to tell you, the request for the sale of state-owned agricultural land, parts of the country, small farmers exactly took place from those of Vojvodina. You can also come by later to look at the originals and stamps and signatures, and the Association of Farmers Mr. Kiša and Club 100P+ and the Independent Association of Farmers of Serbia, the Alliance of Agricultural Associations of Vojvodina. The initiative came from them for well-known reasons, for the state to demonstrate its willingness to help them. And that's what we wanted, and that's what we show in this way. You say - we'll rent. Yeah, but up to 30%. You know very well that on those consultations that we have said well – up to 30% the question is whether we will be able to give 10%, whether local self-government will ever come to any investors. You know well that investors are fighting everywhere, fighting in Serbia, but also in Bulgaria, and Romania, and Russia, everywhere, and in every sector. So if you even get to that famous 30% in every local self-government, it remains 70% to rent again and remain these, almost 570,000 hectares that should also be entered and processed. A few minutes ago, one of the MPs mentioned that this is how far through Vojvodina is all worked out where it goes, and he doesn't wonder how many are there. First, it's not true. Secondly, how much of what has been processed and what is legal and what has been won in public competition, and how much is the subject of usurpation. And here we have heard from the ambassadors of the Vojvodina, it is nothing controversial, nor foreign, it is known that in certain local self-governments the authorities are agreeing with individuals, with the powerful. What's important is this government wants to change, we want to protect a small and medium-sized farmer, we base our future on it. Even what we're proposing to rent and we're asking for them to invest and raise the processing and help the small ones is precisely because of these small farmers, because we adopted through our strategy to help the small one, to strengthen to support the competition, to be more competitive, because it actually produces the best food. We got confirmations and confessions all over the world, someone mentioned earlier, as in Russia they say our food is the best. We know it well. And we want to help, support and increase our production.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44137	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44138	Let me get this straight, we're not against selling land, but not like this. It's too short to pay off the land. Secondly, against the exclusive right of the ministry to be so centralised. Among other things, these are our objections and you'll have it in the amendments, why is that so. We have explained in the amendments what is not good in this centralisation, in that right of the ministry, etc. It's always said that there's a lot of unprocessed land, but why is the unprocessed land, why is it unsuspected land? Among other things, it is because there is no inspector to be present when the country is betrayed. The town of Belgrade has an agricultural inspector. In Vojvodina, and I'm asking a parliamentary question why isn't there an inspector in Vojvodina? There are three or four inspectors, you gave me an answer that's why it's because of the Public Service Employment Prohibition Act. So there's just a lot of reasons. Maybe the ministry didn't even bother to betray the country, and the lack of control over local self-government, which has a lot of usurpation, etc. I think he's on inspection, at the ministry. Why wasn't it done? It should not be said that the land is unprocessed because the couples did not want to process the land, they were not given the conditions to process the land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44139	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44140	Just a moment to explain, according to the Constitution, the Ministry has and manages state-owned agricultural land. Local self-government is responsible for implementing the Ministry's policy, government policy and the state's interest in the field. Why hasn't he reacted before, you say? There were reactions, but the law did not allow control measures, sanctions, which this law would introduce. So, and sanctions, fines, and the provision welcomed by MPs and our farmers is being tightened, to suspend the transfer of funds to all those local self-governments that are not responsible. You say, "It will be a non-transparent sale, but it will not be." There will be transparency because if we wanted non-transparently, we wouldn't pay any attention to these little farmers. They wouldn't even listen to their demands. Why won't she be intransparent? In view of the fact that the adoption law follows the adoption of the regulation, the regulation is adopted by the Government. The Regulation shall be published in the Official Messenger. So behind it stands the whole team, the government, the ministry and, of course, farmers and local self-government. Surely he will not allow it to be intransparent because he has no interest in helping Peter Petrovic in a village and the other one not. So don't spread your misinformation again. You're saying I just forgot that poster of yours or what it's called, the brochure that I said something that didn't... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44141	Time. Thank you. When it's two minutes, I have to stop you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44142	Just to ask one question - do you say that if you spoke to farmers that the law is in their interest, I know that the most objection was within that time period of the country's payment, will you extend that time limit?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44143	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44144	It is not disputed that we ourselves wanted the deadline to be longer. It is not disputed that we have received specific instructions from the Ministry of Finance and it is not disputed and that we are still talking to them and we hope that we will be able to accept some of the amendments proposing an extension of the deadline. But I'm undermining it again, our farmers won't be left in the lurch. We'll take over for those favourable loans. So when we even start a job, we have a desire to continue it and finish it, and we will succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44145	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44146	Dear President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SPS parliamentary group, as proposed by both of these laws, has been laid out by my distinguished colleague Miletic Mihajlovic, and I will only confirm it, we will support one law and another. What I want is in a few words to give a few more arguments for which we will support these laws. But before that, I want to give recognition to the government for one more quality relationship compared to the earlier natural resources that Serbia has, this priceless natural wealth. Just, I think, a month ago, we talked in a similar way when also very important natural resources were, geological resources, even more precisely -- ore and mineral resources, and then we saw what the relationship was, the government's strong attitude towards natural resources. And now, just how much the Government gives this strategic natural resource, agricultural land and ministry speak and amend the law that is on the agenda today, when for the first time it is found that agricultural land is good of general interest to the Republic used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes. Why did I mention this? So when the government, the state says it's good for the general interest, that it's a natural wealth, then the ratio of responsibility to that is strengthened. That's exactly why I mentioned it. And therefore, the government has just offered solutions through these two laws, primarily through the law amending the Agricultural Land Act, which should improve land management, contribute more responsible management, greater exploitation or, above all, the development of agriculture, as one of the most important economic priorities. That is exactly what the Government is doing with the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. A few of my specific details in this law, there were few words here, I would simply point out once again that the first prerequisite for how to regulate the use of agricultural land, and it can be used by renting, partly selling and cannot be used in an illegal way, is the first prerequisite for the adoption of an annual programme, the protection of arrangements and land use. The annual programme for the protection of land and land use is brought by municipalities of local self-government units, more specifically, so those on whose territory this land is located. What's a newspaper here, a very important newspaper not to pass, to say so, that we don't notice it? First, what this annual programme should contain is the full signature of all categories of land it has and those it has issued, which are not issued, which are used, which are not used, etc. Which is very important precisely for the reason that there is no usurpation, and also, it seems to me that today we almost have no record of the exact state of such land. That's the first thing that matters. The second thing is that this programme also regulates what is issued in the lease and how much is issued in the lease, which areas etc. The third thing, which I think is most important, is that this time the responsibility of the local self-government units has to bring it in, otherwise it's subject to sanctions because it can run out of funds from the budget if it doesn't. I think it's a good measure, the only thing I would suggest here, which is that even more precisely in that part, a deadline within which the ministry has to react if this programme isn't brought forward so that it won't be around. The second thing I want to point out is that using, as this law says, land can be used in two ways, it's a lease issue and the other one is a partial sale, and it's precisely this law that regulates and I repeat, it regulates how it can't be used, and it can't be used by usurpation, it can't be used in an illegal way. When it comes to the lease we have several categories, starting with the fact that there is still a public competition present, the lease championship, the right to cross-rent lease, the lease of that land that has not been used for free for three years, the initial price of zero, free renting. These are all categories that regulate the way you can go on lease. I belong to those who feel that by renting through the chartering championship this state wants to attract investments from which everyone will have scales. There are no big investments in this area. They're just being processed, and the surface and that's it. Who can invest the funds? Whoever has the guarantee that it will be on a longer term, and now we see that it is up to 30 years old, who will be able to have a cost-effectiveness in that time. Why does it matter to us? It's important to us because simply put, it can't be based only on primary production, that we should invest in processing capacity, and who can invest in processing capacity? Big investor. Who's got something to do with it? First of all, there's a country out there because it brings new jobs, it brings new values. There is also a small farmer who can through a cooperative relationship that sets up with him to increase his production. There's no secret there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The robbery was completed when it was a robbery privatisation and the robbery will be completed when the usurpation and illegal use of the land is stopped. Also a significant one detail is buying a shorter lease. It's about small farmers again. Why? By moving from warlord to cattleman, for instance, which should be in his best interest, he gets the right to a shorter lease. Not to talk about that special right when after three years of non-use, he can lease for five years free of charge with a starting price of zero. When it comes to the sale of land, I think it's a big deal that the state made it possible for the first time to sell state land, part of state land, but to whom is it sold? It's sold to a small farmer. There were a bunch of lies in the public that the law would be passed to sell land to foreigners and what I know already to whom. It is public and clear to say that it is incorrect. The law forbids the sale of land to foreigners. This law doesn't regulate it. The law allows the sale of land only to the Serbian citizen, the natural person, who has a registered household, who is in an active relationship, which has been registered on the territory of the municipality for at least three years, and this is clear and should be made public. Why is it given to them? The one who has less than 30 acres so he can buy it. What I agree with is that the five-year payout is short. We suggest that this deadline be increased, for the simple reason that we also create the possibility that as many people as possible can come, but these categories that I've talked about, to reach these areas of agricultural land. So, clearly and precisely, a small farmer, a Serbian citizen, a natural person, has no other sales. I repeat, there are no grounds or conditions for any robbery. The robbery is over, the privatisation, we've heard a lot of these examples so I don't keep them. Only for a very short time when it comes to the protection of land, I have only one sentence to say. I think it's the law that's been passed for the first time, that even in this neighborhood, Serbia's environment, for the first time, and it's a very important question, starting with that it's an unrenewable wealth, and, I say, very much devastation in every way possible. This law aims to prevent, beyond the protection measure, to prevent the degradation of the land. I am giving full support to this, or full support to the proposal of both laws that are in the process today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44147	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44148	Thank you. Three remarks on the two laws that are in this unique, united debate. The first remark, one law that we amend, the Agricultural Land Act, is to rent or sell all agricultural land to someone. Second law, the Land Protection Act prescribes what should not be done with the land. These two laws, not that they can't sit in the same session, but those two laws won't be able to live in reality. In this first observation, in short, what it's really about when it comes to renting for up to 30 years. The lease of up to 30 years here has an argument, the investor will come, and because the investor will come, it will no longer be possible to be a tycoon. Well, who's the investor? City poor, three peasants. That kind of delusion is inadmissible in argument, but I understand completely. So, the investor comes in and wants a direct contract of 30% of one atom, 4,000 hectares, 6,000 hectares, 2,000 hectares, which is the municipality and what is the Atatar in Vojvodina, because this is a law on agricultural land in Vojvodina and this is a huge problem for both this ministry and for this minister of agriculture and for all others, because we have to, and we can't have two agrarian policies. So this is a law relating to land in Vojvodina. And there comes a poor man who wants to rent four, five, or 6,000 acres. He gets it by having an investment plan, a business plan. What's he doing with the ground? What's he doing investing in 6,000 acres? Do you really think that we have an obligation to really swallow all sorts of completely unrealistic arguments? Six thousand acres, what to do? He wants to plant corn, you idiot. What's he gonna do? Is he gonna build something? How is he going to build, if the land is not for construction, if the Land Protection Act does not allow it to be built? It will not build when the Land Protection Act comes, but for these two years until the land protection plans are completed. Do we really think everything is cool if we don't explain those few arguments that we hear here about what it really is? The investor is the one who needs the land. What does he need the land for? In Vojvodina, they said what, here, I was practicing. He wants to build on that earth. What does he want to build? The processing industry, which it either wants to build housing units, or it's just going to deal with agricultural cultures. It's not going to be either, or the other, or the third. There is no argument – here is our country and we just need to put it in the possibility that one investor can have up to 30% in the ata and then another small, medium-sized farmers will have a chance to develop. Another point is – nothing changes for small and medium-sized farmers or landowners who are now renting land. That's not true, and it's not nice to tell these people that their position doesn't change for two reasons. In three months, six months, the law will be applied in six weeks, and they will be changed, and there is no need to talk to them – nothing changes to you, you will be even better, because by direct contract, on the basis of a business plan, we give the ministry or local self-government, an investor who will invest anything? In the land of bogeyman or banatian or sremish. And the third observation is, when it comes to the Law on the Protection of Land, it's done very well as the bill. I have raised my concerns and questions and my concern that this law will not be applied. And that's a huge problem for both our society and all those in public affairs, which we're passing laws that look great on paper and that we don't have them applied. At the same session, change the Law on Agricultural Land by saying in the simplest way possible – now in the municipalities of Vojvodina 30% of the atoms will go by direct contract based on the business plan and at the same time have a law that defines very precisely and well what protection principles must be done with land, we will all have a problem. What I see, unfortunately, and I wish I wasn't right, that it would happen, that we would have devastations of land until the Land Protection Act comes into force, so instead of prevention, we're going to talk about land remediation. With full awareness that the proposal for a law on agricultural land will unfortunately go into the content that it entered the Assembly and the way it was discussed, if we can agree on this case not to try to degrade anyone who has a reason against such laws again. Especially to try to leave out the insults that the villagers in Vojvodina were manipulated, they survived many different historical stages and hardly anyone could manipulate them. Whether the numbers that we have divided here will end together with 4,780 in Vojvodina and 700 in other parts of our Serbia or you will see that these families are 15,000, it is very soon ahead of us. I wish the Minister had every argument right. I wish I was wrong, but there was a session here yesterday, where I said the same sentence when it came to voting on prosecutors, and unfortunately I was right. I would like you not to answer me but to convince us together the reality in Serbia that the Cooperative Act allows these 6,000 hectares of investment to really buy small, medium-sized agricultural land and, of course, I would like to stop people who are not under criminal charges, under investigation or are, to stop slaughtering in this Assembly by giving the same people or a very similar advantage in renting 30% of the land in municipalities in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44149	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44150	Dear People's MPs, I agree with you, it's not nice to change the thesis. It's not nice to tell a lie. It is not true that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land was proposed because the Ministry, Government or someone close to us would assign up to 30% of the state agricultural land to our friends. You know who they are, so you say, some tycoons there. I keep asking the question – who are these tycoons? Where did the tycoons come from in Serbia? I didn't find tycoons as a minister of agriculture. It'd be nice to say that. Second, you're talking again, changing the thesis, direct contract, business plan. So please, we're serious people, let's see where this proposed law says, so let's read to the citizens, citizens, here and there - a direct contract. Let me tell the citizens right away – it's not true. There won't be a direct contract. The process will be transparent. Also, you're changing the thesis and the question of the truth or the truth again. You can judge for yourself. You're saying: 15,000 families, 15,000 owners, that means, is threatened by this. So please, we've shown before, and here I'm ready to show the data again, where now in Vojvodina, based on the land's lease, we have about 4,500 owners. Well, please, you should say that. Second, you say, we are passing a law on the agricultural land of Vojvodina. That's not true. We pass a law on agricultural land that regulates the use of state-owned agricultural land. The state is Serbia, the state is both Srljig and Cačak and Subotica and Novi Sad. I asked you, not you personally, but my colleague Chanka, to tell me that he thinks that we are making a law that will be at the state level, a law that will represent the interest of the state in farmers to be agricultural land, and that it is especially for Vojvodina, especially for the issues of the Zlatibor County, for some particular part, a special region of Vojvodina. Is that possible? He didn't answer me, he didn't give me a proposal, and we don't do this because state land is state land. It is the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so those 15,000 families are absolutely not true. It's absolutely not true either, that anyone will lose their country from those who were interested, because so many countries we have that I don't believe in any foreseeable future will be a problem. And when taken to give all 30% to investors at this point, you should know that investors can also be farmers. How? Their associations can be investors. Why shouldn't they be investors? But they have to use that state resource and invest in it to benefit from that resource and those small ones who can't invest. I just want to say that it's not nice to mix the thesis, that it's not nice to tell the truth, and you also mentioned this law on the protection of land, in the context of this law, I don't know why you're changing and mixing the thesis, simply, this is one law that speaks of the protection of land as an unrenewable natural resource, a law that will be developed in the future through regulations, through regulations that will try to make a network of land, its quality and composition in the whole of Serbia to manage it in the future. This is in the context of the environmental protection issue without reminding you of what we inherited from some before us, all the problems in this area. You're saying that these two laws are in collegiate, and just before one of the MPs mentioned it, he also asked the question of how, from where, agriculture and environmental protection in terms of how we're going to allow large farms to be built if they're going to be built at all, and that's not in agreement with environmental protection. On some matters of protection above this economic issue, and we should now, on this basis, ban large production, ban large projects, ban an increase in the overall volume of agricultural production. I have to remind you that we've had all this in mind and that we've long been preparing and seriously working and increasing production and maintaining and improving quality, but to protect the environment. You remember very well that there is no year when we talked here about the law on integrated prevention and environmental pollution control. This law has been passed, he speaks clearly of all the standards, which all the rules, future investors, when it comes to livestock, must meet. For those who are now active, farms that are now working in Serbia, whether in Vojvodina, or elsewhere, they have until 2020 to obtain an integrated licence, of course only the large ones. And it's precisely precise, the size of a farm that has an obligation to an integrated permit. When it comes to new potential investors, they must, of course, also collect all the permits, so all environmental impact assessments, in order to get the permits used. What does that mean? This means that it can't happen by any chance that some outdated technology, that some of the technology thrown out of a country, as some like to say, comes to Serbia, because in that part we have a legal framework and clear rules, so through the law that we adopted, and then they've been passed and adequate, or appropriate regulations and they exactly say, for example, in pig-making for 2,000 pigs and for 30 kg, means for a farm that has more than 2,000 pigs, they have to get that integrated license. I just want to say that we just want to systematically and in one comprehensive, comprehensive way, to solve the issues in the field of environmental protection and those 2,200 inherited projects from the old fund, but all of this other, we're trying as much as we can, for a year and a half it's really little to fix everything that's been ruined or simply to get something back that was two or three decades ago, but we're, as always, optimistic, we have a lot of energy and we believe in success and we're going to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44152	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, fellow MPs, so Serbia is a country of great potential, but also many missed opportunities, with a rich, fertile country, to simply be a country with rich people. Since 2012, it's practically been a battle for us to have rich people on agricultural land. All that's been devastated in the past decades, trying to stop it in total sunflowers, and in a certain way revitalising and starting through certain economic activities. Why am I saying that? Perhaps, Madam Minister, you did not know that since 2005, a strategy for the development of agriculture was adopted, which meant a model for accelerated privatisation, because agricultural land that was then located in public property was not allowed to be sold, but was rapidly sold through the Privatisation Agency complete agrocombinates. We heard the number of agrocombinates sold only in Vojvodina, with the land never being run in the balance books. Only objects were run. On the other hand, the capital of these companies was not fully known because the land was not at all the subject of an estimate of the capital of such companies. So, on the one hand, you were banned from selling land, on the other hand, you had an accelerated privatisation of agricultural combinations. On the third hand, you had a fast purchase, i.e. a tender sale of the country, especially in the AP Vojvodina and when hectares of 300 to 500 euros were sold, and today they are worth between seven and 15,000 euros, even on the capital market per hectare. Why are we saying this? Because it is the result of all that Serbia loses 100m euros annually because it has only 30% of state land in the lease. So 70% of the state's land is being processed by someone else, the state has no idea who's on that land and isn't incometing it, and it's normal for those usurpers who have an interest in using state resources for zero dinars to be sure they're not going to benefit from this law that you're proposing here in the Assembly. The law entered the assembly procedure on November 5th. Since 5 November, several debates have been held on this legislative proposal. Serbia's Energy Policy Forum even had the opportunity to discuss, together with producers and different associations, how to use unprocessed agricultural land, which is neither the subject nor the lease, nor the exploitation of primary agricultural production. What will be interesting, is given through certain amendments, I think they are very acceptable, but what the whole of Serbia needs to know, that 3.2 million hectares are being processed in the Republic of Serbia, 1.6 million hectares is in Vojvodina. So that other half belongs to the other territory of Serbia. Therefore, this law should apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. What's important is to say that 800,000 hectares are not being processed. In these 800,000 hectares there are certain capacities, potentials that can be used for energy purposes. For what? Because in these 800,000 hectares, some experts have done certain research, and they say that 320 million gallons of biodiesel can be produced, plus 380 million pounds of livestock. What is important is to say that Serbia loses this way without processing the 800 000 hectares of bad country that no one will, 200 megawatts of electricity and heat. So, we're losing Serbia's practical warmth for two million residents by not using 800,000 hectares of land. Therefore, there is an amendment that Mr. Marijan Risticevic has proposed, it is that such a devastated land and what no one has worked in the past three years, and this Serbia is burning seven million cubic metres of straw, to rent zero dinars to those agricultural landowners, to those producers who really want to deal with biomass, because it is one of the ways that agricultural producers, in addition to the primary production that they are doing in a particular segment of energy savings, can have a chance that they simply have additional revenues through the production of biomass, but also to develop the renewable energy sector and energy efficiency in Serbia. You've had opportunities as Minister and that in the Republic of Baden Virtenberg, when you were visiting, you hear how many energy villages were built in just seven years, starting with one, and today there are 70 energy villages on the issue of biomass production. What is important to say is that this law first and foremost introduces order in land policy, that it is a lot of obstacles that should have been crossed, that the process of restitution ends this year, gives a chance to simply define in a certain way a cadastre that has so far simply not been complete when it comes to agricultural parcels, to regulate the status of agricultural producers who have been in the role of usurper in these 70%, which is about 580 000 hectares, that stricter policies are introduced when it comes to local self-government and that in a certain way you give the possibility to small farmers who will be able to compete for the IPARD programme, that over two hectares simply through a particular lease show that they have so many parcels and are then able to apply simply for these grants. If they have less parcels than two hectares as small producers, they are not able to apply for these funds. Therefore, you are also going through the SAA implementation procedure for Chapter 2 when it comes to agricultural land and protection in general when it comes to the quality of agricultural land. You are going to meet the improvements of the agricultural sector itself, but you are also going to meet the development of energy when it comes to renewable energy sources. Therefore, we believe that this law has one development investment component, and when we look at at all those who object to it, then it is quite clear if the privatisation was made from 2005 to 2011 in the manner I have exposed to you, which is by banning estrangement, that is, by banning the general lease of agricultural land, and later by selling to agricultural producers, or today's tycoons, it was clear that it was not in the interest to resolve this situation. Since you are making this proposal legally, it is clear that in a transparent way you want to solve this area. But you should say, and be honest, and you should read which four companies, which four owners today hold over 100 hectares of agricultural land in their possession and should say that foreign investors hold only 22,000 hectares of land. It means that four and a half, almost five times more are held by domestic owners. These owners are the "MK Group" of Mr Miodrag Kostic, "Delta" Mr. Miroslav Miskovic, "IM Matijević" Petar Matijević and "Irva Investments" Đorđe Nicovic. These are four owners, practically, countries that own their own through certain companies this agricultural land. It is certainly in their interest that, through the promotion and through a certain kind of competition they will gain on this market, they will improve the work of agriculture and that this land is, in a certain way, through the application of new agro-technical measures and new production capacities, but not only for primary production but also for processing. It is completely unclear why the more difficult ones are being replaced when it comes to the business plan and when it comes to who's going to rent the 70% part that's unrenowned, agricultural land, who's going to pay 100m euros in the budget. The pay will be for new tenants, those who are economically capable of opening new production facilities, when we talk about primary production. Only those who are economically capable of buying land without doing anything on it are simply not economically profitable today, especially when you will have small producers who will deal safely with the production of healthy food, which is usually 30 percent more expensive on the EU market than those who deal with conventional production of agricultural products. Therefore, what this law adopts today practically brings a new momentum in agriculture, in the economy, in the inflow of foreign direct investment and therefore this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44153	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Zivkovic, and then Milan Novakovic. Here you go, Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44154	Thank you very much. It's very clear why this law is passed. I was just wondering who it was brought for. Without a doubt, the law aims to ensure that non-transparent, below grain, a highly potentially corrupt story on how land is sold to privileged customers in Serbia. I'd ask my opposition colleagues to be a little more calm. There was a member of 64 before this law. There was clearly a right to a short lease, but now a new institute is being introduced called the rental championship, where a privileged friend, cousin or foreign partner or what, an eternal friend, gets through strange commissions, through an investment programme the possibility of under any price, any public control coming to state agricultural land. It's not just my attitude. The position was affirmed by the Anti-Corruption Agency and it is clear as day. So the law is made for someone. I asked the Minister for who? Does he have an Arabic name, German or Russian? I think that there we can fence who will be this privileged friend, an eternal friend, who will come from some Arab country to teach Serbs how to process the country, or someone from Germany will come to teach Serbs how to grow pigs, because Serbs have never done it, either first or second, but we need foreign minds. The question keeps repeating itself here -- why, how, when Serbia was destroyed, was it privatisation, is it that year, that year? All the nice information you provide, many speakers, that in one of your cities or our cities, some company, whether it's industrial, whether it's an agricultural combination, was successful, seventh, eighth in Yugoslavia, 12th, 13th in the Balkans, were stories from the 1980s, when of course there was not one universal criterion that could compare the state, the agreed economy, the command economy, with the real market. In the 1990s, everything in this country and infrastructure and people was destroyed. So it wasn't just a kidnapped country, it was emptying out at the time, not only was the children moving out, but it was because they died in the wars that someone was fighting and who's talking about the EU today, tolerance, and I don't know what it is. Of course it was privatisation and of course she had a lot of flaws, but as a model, it was a good model that was poorly applied. Several colleagues said that in 2005, 2006, 2007, a hectare was sold at 300 euros, and that today it is sold at seven, eight thousand. They gave examples, even mentioned names and companies and individuals. Well, let me give you an example that confirms what you're saying. On May 22rd 2005, to remember who the government was then, I certainly did not, 70% of the Agrounia PIC was sold for two and a half million euros. At that time there were about 8,000 hectares, which was leased, owned by “Agrounia”. I'm not saying there's anything wrong here, I'm just giving the facts. So if you do a good calculation, that's 312.5 euros per hectare. Five members of the commission were, one was a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, the second was a representative of the Ministry of Industry, the third was director of "Agrounia", then a social enterprise, the fourth was a lady from "Agrounia", the fifth member of the commission was a Renaissance figure, who was tasked with being my personal biographer and his name was Marijan Risticevic, then president of the Indji Municipality Assembly. Therefore, if you ask who sold 300 euros per MK "Comerc" in 2005 or any other company's fertile Vojvodian country in Indjia, you get the answer, and you can see it on the Privatisation Agency website. So much for facts and values.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44155	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44156	Most of the remarks you've already made, I've already answered, but I just want to say that you're wrong, that your approach to an analysis of the law is tending, that it's not justified, that the fact that the state wants to run, to speed up, to increase agricultural production through encouraging investments, you want to put in a completely different context, in this, nothing caused, in this incorrect context, and I have to say it. In doing so, I would also like to say this, Your Honor, you had the opportunity and you were working at a time when you created state policy the way you thought best. I have no doubt that you wanted to do the same as best. Well, let us show what we know, too. Give us time. Let us manage state resources in the best way possible, manage for the benefit of farmers, for the benefit of all citizens, just so much. I think that would be correct on your part, and to all your other objections, I answered this morning. I believe you heard them, not why you're repeating them again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44157	Mr. Risticevic has the right to a replica. First word comes from MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44158	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106 has been injured, although you have started to chair again from a few seconds ago, but the previous speaker, the distinguished colleague Zivkovic, talked about everything not only about the law, and about commissions and subcommittees and various things and from the many of these announced criticisms of the Agricultural Land Act, we could hear the promotion of agriculture policy, which is at the level of Montenegro, because how else do we call politics that we don't need knowledge coming from orderly EU countries, that we don't need investments? We, for God's sake, know what has been confirmed that the previous speaker knows, knows how to get a little more than 500,000 euros out of the state register for a dubious vineyard, and then the same vineyard suddenly passes to some apartments on Vrakar. To a secretary, we have these experiences and knowledge from the field of agriculture. I think it's back at the level of Montenegro and I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it's allowed to talk about everything and everything but a very important bill of law, amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44159	Thank you. I had to listen to it all the way, even though you used it as a replica. I had to listen until the end, because I wasn't the chairman. That's why I'm gonna take this minute and 20 seconds away from Parliament time. (Zoran Babic, from the place: To whom? To the Serbian advanced party. The word is made by MP Marijan Risticevic, the right to reply to Mr Zivkovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is most likely that Miodrag Kostic well informed my fellow farmer about the composition of the tender commission, but he could have informed him a little better. Of the five members, four commission members voted for the sale and one did not. One considered the price to be low, and the one was a representative of the local self-government of Indjia municipality, Marijan Risticevic. If that's not true, we can do the polygraph, we can do the record. If that's not true, I will resign and my property, which is not significant to give to my fellow farmer. But if it is true that Marijan Risticevic did not vote in favour of this privatisation as a representative of local self-government, you may not come, but also be present and not vote in favour of privatisation, then you were not up for it. If it's true that I didn't vote for that privatisation, that a fellow farmer resigns and gives his estate, which is significantly bigger than mine belongs to me. That's my offer, as next. I will resign, if the famous contract with the Ministry of Agriculture on the lease of agricultural land in favour of the vineyard, my colleague, the farmer, is not signed by one of the directors of MK Komerca, Jaroslav Stuparski, and in favour of the Zivkovic winery. I will also resign, because this contract directly leads to the relationship between MK Komertz, my fellow farmer and the sale of those famous buildings at the mouth of MK Komertz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44161	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. This closes the circle of replicas. The word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. You have a replica of Mrs. Minister's exposure and please hold on to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44162	The minister said I should let this government get a chance to show how it works for the benefit of the state and the people. That's what you said, and you said you were a good judge that I've been working on the pride of Serbian citizens for the past year, and that's true. You have a chance to work on the good of Serbian citizens. It's already starting the fourth year soon. So, for three years, you've been working for the benefit of Serbian citizens. What's going on? It happens that public debt has been increased by nearly 10 billion. It happens that unemployment is the same or greater than it was three years ago. It happens that new imposes are introduced through taxes, excise taxes, taxes to everyone, including farmers. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Does he accept the bet Marijan Rističević? Do you want to stop the throw?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44163	Please, I'm paying attention to Mr. Zivkovic's exposure and allow me to listen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44164	Therefore, your chance is given. It's the people's will. I respect that you're not yesterday's. You didn't come here the first time today. This isn't the first fairy tale you read. Those fairy tales have been read for years. Therefore, I think it has been enough time for you to show your intentions and your intentions are very clearly shown, not only your own, but the intentions of the entire government, which is that this people are being bullied maximum with fairy tales that come on carpets from Arabic, Russian, and I don't know which countries, that it is destroying Serbia even deeper, but that it has been broken in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44165	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44166	The government of the Republic of Serbia took responsibility a year and a half ago. Then I too took responsibility for the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Sir, how long does it take when things in agriculture are destroyed to come back and come back to life? These combined, these agricultural goods, which went missing in 2001-2011, were created and created decades ago. How long will it take for them to move and rebuild? What about the SAA we signed today? It's not only that it's signed, it's that farmers were then, as before, released down the water. They're all remembered only when some elections or something are ahead of the election, but this government didn't think of farmers through this law. You know well that we have defended a series of laws here in the Assembly and much more than some of yours have managed to prepare and defend for the whole term, and all in the interest of agriculture. You know what's done. Today we have something to be proud of and boast about. Last year we had a surplus in the export of agricultural and food products, record. This year, in the first 10 months, a surplus at last year's level. Although we had floods last year, even though we have droughts this year, we have results because we are committed to the work that the people have entrusted us with. That's exactly why we're passing this law. We need processing capacity. We need those who will buy products from our farmers and take them out to the foreign market. We need ours for our food and for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44167	Thank you, Madam Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. I hope it's not an insult to you to what Mrs. Minister said - "sir"? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: That is not said. She hasn't spoken to you in any other way than... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: She made a lie. Mr. Zivkovic, how many lies do you speak... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How are you not ashamed? )......................................................................................................... Then someone should always get a replica, if that's a criterion. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Let him say which combination is missing in 2001. ) The word has a National MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44168	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I will return to the Law on Agricultural Land, to return to this responsible work which we here, as MPs, should work in the Parliament of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to better clarify to our citizens, i.e. to the agricultural producers what this law does to them. Before I start talking about good things, I tried to find a formula in this law from 2007, and you, Minister, remind me if I didn't read it correctly. I tried to find the next formula to buy 52 hectares per 60 euros per 40 years, not to plant a vineyard without raising 525 000 euros in subsidies, done by a former, former prime minister. I couldn't find that formula in this law, and it tells me that either I didn't read it correctly or someone wrote an internal act and carried it out for themselves. I leave that to everyone here and to the citizens who are watching us interpret how they think they should interpret it. Let's get back to the law. The law is very clear. The law defines the objectives set before it, which is the issue and management of state agricultural land, and starts with the very idea of what agricultural land is, and then from the introduction of the concept of the field book, and that we can no longer have information about what is sowing on certain parcels that the state has leased to agricultural producers. Also, one very important moment in this is that the current law was absolutely, to say, not transparent in the sense that it had had its major failures and there were huge abuses, so that the uptakes of land that have been recorded since 2007 have caused great damage to the Republic of Serbia. You've seen it well, you've made good suggestions. Proposals relating to sanctions for usurpators, which enter unauthorized property to process agricultural land, are intended to make three times as much compensation as the initial price. Then, unless a land usurper is found, the local self-government has the right to remove crops and fruits from that source of funds or to set up a part to download, and part to go into the budget, or if it discovers who the usurper is to charge from it by way of a court fee. Why am I talking about this usurp? Because very much damage has been done to the state and the Republic of Serbia. We've heard the data here, not to repeat, from the minister and distinguished fellow MPs. I'll say only one piece of information for Novi Sad, where I come from, which is that since 2007, since the issue of state agricultural land, a total of 5,280 hectares has been usurped. Based on the total assets that have been settled in non-judicial settlements, which unfortunately was legal so that, compared to the initial bid price, only 0.5% has been increased. That was a skillful abuse of certain, I say, farmers. That amount is about 214 million dinars. Of that, 24 million were charged and 190 million were still left in the area of the town of Novi Sad, not charged by usurpation. Let's move on, when we talk about issuing agricultural land for investment up to 30%, here to explain to the citizens, we always talk to 30%. This does not mean that in the field of one local self-government, local self-government has an obligation to betray everything. The local self-government has an obligation to in the spirit of a good host, who manages, i.e. Under the supervision of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture, it is responsible for what programmes will be accepted, investment programmes and up to 30% of the land will be issued for 30 years. Just one thing to say. Doesn't mean a big investment is 10, 100 or 200 acres. A big investment for small holdings is two acres. If it's one hectare for, for example. To raise one hectare of apple orchards, the investment is about 35,000 euros. The income per year from the investment is expected somewhere between 15,000 and 17,000 euros. You have to admit that out of two acres one family can and can live well. The second question is, how will the agricultural producer get the funding for it? We've just passed the law, it's the Investment Act, where we've evened out domestic and foreign investors. Then, we have the Cooperative Act, which is also in the debate these days. We finished the principle debate yesterday. Tomorrow we expect a debate on the amendments, where it will be recommended for our farmers to join together. Because the cooperative system is this perspective that can welcome competition, given that, once again, I remind the state of Serbia is on its way to the EU, that the state of Serbia will open itself as a market, that the state of Serbia must through legal provisions and how it affects, and how it helps its citizens to welcome that competition. This will not only mean in a legal sense, but it will also mean in financial terms. How's financial? It is certain that the agricultural budget, we agreed, is not enough. We're gonna have to change budgets. The budget will have to be investment. In the next period, we'll say, and how we can use the IPA program. We are expected to receive 35m euros for 2016. How many orchards do you think can be raised, or greenhouses, throughout the Republic of Serbia? We're not talking, so 10, 20, 30, 50 acres. We are talking about smaller areas, smaller investments, and how they can bring good to our farmers. And it is the aim of both this law and the Law on Cooperatives, we aim at small and medium-sized producers. As MPs, we fight for it. For the great producers of ours and our big investors, we have no fear. They operate on market principles. They are ready both technically and technologically and professionally to meet all the challenges. We are working on these laws to make this law investment and that this law can bring good to small and medium-sized agricultural producers. Who doesn't want to see it, unfortunately, it's always like that, so the position and the opposition will never agree, but in a year we'll be back here, and we'll talk again, and we'll see what we do. Anyway, I don't want to take any more time, but I think it's also important that the purchase of agricultural land on which the small agricultural producers insisted again, I repeat up to 20 hectares, that doesn't mean when we're talking to 20 that someone has to buy 20 acres. It is certain that on the basis of everything here, what I could say in this short period is that it can be concluded that this law is now facing small and medium-sized investors. He doesn't neglect big investors either. We have big investors and we need them right. We see what's going on, I'll just compare it, for example. A car industry as much as the accompanying industry, how small craft producers in the Kragujevac and Serbia environment have lived. It's all that's the accompanying industry. I don't mind big companies coming in, I absolutely support it, and I will strongly support pig producers to come in and make beef producers and hazelnuts producers. Everyone's welcome. We have enough land, our country is unfortunately not operational. If we put all that land in office, Serbia would be rich. And the state of Serbia will be rich if one Switzerland when we go through it, when we see that there are so many cows on the plains. I'll end up with this in a symbolic sense, that I want the time to return when the herds will be full of pastures on the pasture, and in the cattle people are said to be treasure. Serbia will be a rich country when it has a lot of treasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44169	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Dear People's MPs, after we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, children without parental ageing from Belgrade, Nis and Arangelovac, the members of the Social Inclusive Programme "Generation of the Future", which is being conducted under the auspices of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. We're going back to work. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44170	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister, the honored guests of what was very important for us to come first and foremost to the opportunity to participate in this debate because we believe I speak for the people who will certainly have a threatened existence in the coming period. Direct users are 70,000, indirect certainly twice as many, people who live on this kind of agricultural production in Serbia. You've said several times today that this existing law is very bad, but it's been applied, and it hasn't even produced so many bad results. We believe that these changes and additions will bring catastrophic results, just for the people who live on agriculture. You have tried several times today to underline that it is a law that the state of Serbia brings for the benefit of all its citizens, and I think not that you are wrong, but that you have completely excluded farmers from the north of the country, from the AP Vojvodina, because this law does not apply when it comes to their interest and does not apply to what their needs are. And you know all the time that you're replacing the thesis and all the time you're talking to some farmer from central Serbia who's going to have or won't have as much interest in both the existing and these amendments and the additions to this law, but certainly there won't be people dealing with agriculture in the AP Vojvodina. So, you yourself are punishing farmers in Vojvodina by this bill of law? And they're also the state of Serbia, at least that's how it should be for you. And they're citizens who live off their work. We advocated a new law, you said changes and supplements were enough. Under number one, a motive justifying the adoption of such legal solutions is quite wrong and incorrect, and we have several times, and the various representatives of the opposition have been undermining it several times today. Your point of view is that there is no interest in the law of state agricultural land, out of the question. Out of the question, you know very well that's not true. When we get on the wrong train at the very beginning, every station is wrong. So your intensity and intent to amend and supplement this law is not in line with the real situation and with the interests of the people who live on agriculture. In Vojvodina, it's 450,000 hectares of state land, 250,000 is leased, and what do you propose now by this law? Several times today, MPs also spoke to Mrs Jerkov and Mrs Comic, that freely as Minister of Agriculture, if you haven't already found it appropriate to talk to those who protested, who were freezing in the winter, while this law was in public debate, could you sit in a car, could you visit every place, every municipality, every village and every city, to see whether there is a country of the first, second or third category that isn't being processed? It doesn't exist, that's what you know. Now you're suggesting that 150,000 ha, you say not to tycoons, but the law calls them investors, they're tycoons only not tycoons, you call them tycoons investors, because you say there's no tycoon in Serbia, okay, those 150,000 of your investors are going to rent them now. All right, that's your solution. That's how you endanger 150,000 people who don't have the money to rent, who are physical and not legal. With your legal solution, you value more legal persons than a physical person. It's also very strange for us. How is it possible that a legal person is more valuable, that the property of a legal person is more valuable than the property of a natural person? Why is the company more valuable than the man for this government? Why is the RS government more valuable to companies and private companies than people? We don't understand that. What's this about? It's still under the restitution of 150,000. You can't rent this to anyone because it's going to be land that's coming back and 150,000 is left for sale. From that land, as you know, you have the worse categories, you have also the sweets, the pastures, the mornings and all that's invaluable to process. Does this law know justice and, on the other hand, raise the question – how much does this injustice cost to citizens living in Vojvodina, who live on this? How much does that injustice cost? We know this isn't your law. I personally have sympathy for you as ministers and for your work, but you represent here some other party, not the party from which you originally come, the RS government implementing SNS policy. That's very clear to everyone. Why is it that the legal person, not physically, and why the commission you determine, can only determine whether the investor fulfils the conditions, which is the investor, again I say to the investor in the tycoon bracket, that up to 30% of the land in local self-government, what do you think these local self-governments will be able to deal with in any way? Some will. Some of us would love to. Some can't. How and in what way will you bring a righteous solution without the people of this world being put at risk? That's the basic question. Who's gonna be on those commissions? Will those people who have been aiding only and exclusively privileged investors be in commissions? The RS government is famous for that. In this case too, will we only be privileged to give us the opportunity to get to that land? Twenty thousand hectares, 400,000 euros in five years, and that's what Mrs Jerkov asked today. What's to happen if someone makes 400,000 euros in five years? Who's got that money? They don't have physical faces, they don't have those who live off it. This has only tycoons, to define at least that expression, and tycoons, or investors, are the only ones who have that money. They're tycoons. Four hundred thousand euros, they're tycoons. That's why we've been looking for not only explanations but we've asked that and with everything you've been saying for a mantra year and a half, we've been accusing some of the former authorities there and some of the former times. You know, by 2008, 95% of the agricultural combinations were privatized. The Democratic Party has broken up some contracts badly. Just so you know. So there's no confusion. The SNS are getting it. If only I could get a word from a gentleman across the street. That's what the Anti-Corruption Council says. That's not what I'm saying. The Anti-Corruption Council, which the representatives of the Committee on Agriculture called the sub-border of a political organisation. They're the ones who were threatened or beaten up on the street. They claim what I'm saying. Were there any hoodlums in the former regimes? There have been omens in every regime, that we understand each other, especially in Serbia where there are no strong and independent institutions since 1990, and I can tell you, further and freely, in every government so far, it's just kind of weird that these thugs today are members of the SNS, including Sinisha Malo, who, through privatisation, has, among other things, participated in the allocation of land that he owns for himself personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44171	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44172	I've got another minute. Oh, no? I'm finishing my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44173	You've got five seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44174	This is a very bad law for us. We will not support this law and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44175	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Granny, you replica? (Zoran Babic: Three times mentioned by the SNS. I know. Madam Minister, there's a replica of advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44176	So I'd like to answer to this D.S. punk who's so out of the city's administration, he's gone to the MPs' benches...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44177	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44178	Well, you see, these same bastards from the DS patented how it's possible to make 450,000 euros. Very easily, with one move and more than 450,000 euros. It's enough to damage children distracted by a million and 200,000 euros, leave them without a facility and you get a million and 200,000 euros, and the children are out of the building. It's enough to damage and destroy Tesla Bank and you'll have a lot of 450,000 each, you DS punks. It's enough to destroy the Capital Investment Fund, the Development Fund. It's all done by you gentlemen of the devils of the DS. But the D.S. thugs were doing some more stuff and it's about agriculture. You know, in 2011, when the government was made by these far greater villains than those who are sitting here, made the government of Serbia, they reached the conclusion that the treaty between the Republic of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, the city of Belgrade and the Property Directorate was agreed upon. The conclusion found that the entire agricultural land used by the PKK and processed to be transferred to the PKK capital and agreed to be entered as owners. That's where these DS thugs were already preparing for the tycoons, the much bigger bastards created by the DS, to kidnap the PKB's assets. What are we going to do with these bad guys? What are we going to do with these bastards? What about all those things you destroyed and stole? What do you want now, that you can continue to have agricultural land, that the villains can continue to be respected MPs and respected members of our society? It won't work that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44179	Time. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu, you do not have the right to reply to Mr Babic's exposure. There is only an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, but an authorised representative of the parliamentary group must wait for the first lady minister to have a replica of Mr Bozovic's presentation to be given the opportunity to respond. Here you are, Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44180	Mr. Ambassador, it's true, the law is not mine. The law is the farmer who participated in his writing and it is true that he is a farmer from Vojvodina and it is true that they were the most interested and that all the time they felt they should participate and participate, and I must tell you that the largest number of them were really zealous and almost daily, that is, whenever these working meetings and working groups were held, they were with us and I am proud to say that the law is theirs. It is true that none of them are satisfied with all the solutions, but it is true that each of them got the maximum he asked for, and even the ones you mention, which were the only ones, they were the only association that was solely against giving 30% of the land in the right championship. So everything else in the law for them wasn't disputed except that. Why are they against it? Because someone explained to them that they would no longer have the opportunity to rent land, which is not true. Why is that explained to them? You say 70,000 users will be compromised. Well, we, please, have just shown the data of 4.5 thousand agricultural holdings is in Vojvodina that take land to rent 4.5 thousand. So, even if we give all 30% of this moment to investors where investors can be farmers, right through their associations, is it possible and who can believe that they will leave out the country you used to work for. Therefore, the sensational approach itself on a sensitive and serious issue is an approach that does not like us as protectors of the interests of citizens and the interests of farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44181	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The minister has answered only our questions, not a moment has mentioned you in a negative context. Mr. Bozovic, be a little parliamentary, please. Please, there is a word from the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group on the right to reply to Mr Babic's presentation. Here you go. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am, and a few more speakers have asked already when it comes to privatisations, you are not talking to anyone who is in the DS today, talk to those who are the officials of your party today, who are in state functions on behalf of your party, who ran those privatisations, who sold agricultural land, who sold it to tycoons. Talk to your party's authorised representative, given that the record of selling Miodrag Kostic for 300 hectares is worth 300 euros per hectare, selling Miodrag Kostic 8,000 hectares in Vojvodina, which you are now saying -- signed. The fact that he today ten years later claims he was against it is now you already know the matter of his testimony which he can and does not have to be true. We didn't hear him make statements that he'd ever been against, had no objections, etc. When in the PKK the only thing you missed is that the DS prevented the PKK from selling to Miodrag Kostic, that it raised its value by 11 billion dinars, and that today the SNS is selling him to who knows who for 50m euros, and by yours, we now see by the well-tapped principle of direct contract and so that the benefits have exclusively a round of people close to the SNS summit. So the Anti-Corruption Council report said that 95% of the agricultural combinations were privatised by 2008. At a time when DS was in opposition, and Sinisha Mali ran the Privatisation Agency. All questions regarding this, please address the mayor of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44183	The word has an authorised representative, in fact the president of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, to mention the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44184	It seems that by changing political parties, losing and remembering, but there are also those people who have memories. Mr. Sinisa Mali was never the director of the Agency, but was Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, after that also prime minister of the RS government and one of the mending DS. On the other hand, Mr Risticevic said clearly that the record exists and was a member of the commission, but he voted against it, for voting again for the D.S. muggings and again, the same bastards from the DS handed over property to tycoons, tycoons you made, and you patented. What thugs sold the property and presented it as investors, businessmen, as drivers of the economy, Milet Jerkovic, Darko Saric? They're investors for you. What are the bad guys who sold the property to Darka Saric and Milet Jerkovic? As far as the PKK is concerned, yes, you stopped because you made a commitment to register the land first. Because without registered land, the PKK wasn't worth anything, because you wanted to register the land first, so why did you make a decision by the government in 2011 where the SS bastards sat? Why you made a deal between the government, the PKK, the City of Belgrade and the Property Directorate. All four institutions were run by the D.S.'s hoodlums. The conclusion by which it was found that the entire agricultural land used and processed by the PKK is moving into the capital of the PKK. That's what you were doing. It's that mess of yours from the DS, because the PKB with the registered land is worth a lot, and you've been preparing it for privatisation and giving it away. Now, that's privatisation, and it's a dissuasion directed by the SS, and this is what I still haven't heard, when Hetherland is going to end, where millions and 200 thousand euros were taken away from children with special needs? Shame on you, D.S. punks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44185	The word has the mandated representative of the DS, National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, mentioning the DS. Here you go, replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44186	I think it's only true of everything Mr. Babic said in certain cases that when the party is changed a little bit is erased and the memory, so in his case he can say for himself. Seems to me he's got a lot of things mixed up. What he's saying is that DS was working with land that he's trying to register with the PKK, that's what Zorana Mihajlovic, Mr Babić, is doing right now and beyond the catastra, and the same way she tried to do it on Zlatibor, and only when there was a big scandal about such a thing. I'm sorry, I made a mistake, Mr. Mali wasn't the Director of the Privatisation Agency, he was the Director of the Tender Commission, I'm sorry, the Centre for Tenders who ran all the privatisations operationally so that I continue to ask you, you have more connections with the privatisation process than anyone from the DS that today in the Democratic Party, so please contact Mr. Sinisha Malo. What the DS was doing, it broke the sea of these privatisations that you are talking about, and Milet Jerkovic and Darko Sarić, and of all these companies made a green pulse of 15 companies that now Alexander Vukic shares with Arab other tycoons, which domestically, as foreignly as possible, so that all these privatisations that are controversial to you, all these agricultural combinations or you see with colleagues who are with you today in the coalition, the only ones who have been sitting in power all the time in this Assembly, so that you can address them all, and at least DS. All of it is true what you are saying, and it is not, which is your answer to the question – which is why 30% of the best land in every municipality in Vojvodina is given without a tender to selected investors only on the basis of an investment plan and a deal with some government committee that we don't even know who will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44187	Thank you. Replica has the president of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, to mention the name. Here you go, and this closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44188	I'll tell you who makes that green pulse. Emil Tedeski - Atlantic Group, Ivica Todorovic - Agrokor, Dragutin Drk - Vindija, Ivan Ergović - Nex group, what is this? These aren't tycoons? These are all physical faces. Since I see that apart from your companies, other than the company owned by the SS, all other companies are tycoon, and these companies and these people are not from Serbia, from neighbouring Croatia. Is that the green pulp that the previous speaker boasts about? On the other hand, just before something was done, I really can't understand it, the DS accused us that in 2011 when both the government and the City of Belgrade and all possible institutions ran the SS and when they made a conclusion that they had agreed to conclude a contract between the Republic of Serbia, the PKK, the City of Belgrade and the Property Directorate that they didn't actually do it, they didn't do it, they didn't even want to do it on the PKK. Only now he wants to present that in 2011, the government led, in fact, the SNS. You know, they didn't run the bastards from DS, so they made that conclusion. That conclusion, that is, by that conclusion, the first attempt at enrollment, when was it? Two thousand thirteen years ago, when the City of Belgrade, which initiated the conclusion and the enrollment, again ran the DS hoodlums. (Thank you, Mr. Granny, time's up. ) and the gentleman across the street, and Dragan Gilas, but the more you try to throw dust in our eyes, just because you don't want to answer where the money from Heterland, from Tesla Bank, from the Capital Investment Fund, from all these things that ended up in Pajtic's pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44189	Thank you. We're moving on. You no longer have the right to reply, because I said that Mr Bozovic caused the replica, and thus we have closed the circle of replicas and we must continue this important law for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branislav Blazic, on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, the representatives of the Ministry, are before us two laws on agricultural land and land protection, and when we talk about some laws, we need to talk first about some past time, about what experiences from the previous period are, in order to know that we are analysing and predicting how it will affect today, or what it will be in the future or what it will be for the future of the state. Our past when it comes to agriculture and agricultural land is dark and black, but we have waited here for the Duke's peasants to dam, for God's sake, those who robbed him most of the fields, who sold him the combineds, who harvested his grain, ripped his tail off and brought him to where they brought him, and yet they fear that there will come a time when the Duke's peasant will be a superior to some tycoons. That time will never come. The Vojvodjan peasant will be on his own as he has always been, and let not those who sold his land scare him, selling the combineds, and then the tycoon Ivica Todorovic, buying "Frikom" and buying "Diamant" bought eight thousand acres of the best duchy country, mostly as my peasants say, just because at the time, Alexander Vlahovic, as Minister of Economy and Privatisation, was stronger than two laws that protected the country from being sold. Thus, tycoon Todorovic became the owner of eight and a half thousand hectares and many others. That's when the land was sold, today it won't. And they don't say that, and they don't defend the SAA, because they signed a contract, which nobody in Europe ever signed, and they signed that four years after the candidate's status, you enter and open the market for the sale of the country. Other countries, such as Croatia, have concluded a contract that only seven years after EU accession can open the market. Poles after 12 years of joining the EU, Hungarians three and another seven years, and then the constitution changed that no one could buy their country. Well, neither can this one. This Agricultural Land Act is just on the side of a small producer. That, for God's sake, doesn't care how some peasants won't be able to get the land they live on right now, so that's a false concern. These small agricultural producers who live the most from that country could never get that land because in these furnished, which are already being given to those who had an excess, not the source of life. Mugging, usurpation, corruption, land allocation will no longer be. It's been a while. This law will stop it. On the other hand, everything will be done to make this very country these small producers to strengthen, and so that they can join together. Third thing, who here has the right to be against investors? Who has the right to tell us we don't need a foreign investor to bring in funds and build a factory and make agricultural production? Who can say that? How long are we going to be a raw base and how long are we going to export it, just raw materials and we get back the final products that we're going to double the price? How long are we going to export to Slovenia corn, and they give us back packed popcorn? Did we come to our senses in the meantime? Here I heard an incredible attitude – says a child who is 10 years old today, if we give the country to 30 years old, means rent for agricultural production for investors, but for finalisation, that child will not be able to deal with agriculture, because when it comes back, he will be 40 years old. Guys, I don't understand it right now. First of all, why does a 10-year-old have to do agricultural production? Second, why this land, if his family has it and if he lives he has love for that country he will also have a land to deal with. Thirdly, if we don't leave the investors and we don't go into serious production, and the countries, that kid won't be able to school, he won't be able to heal, and he won't be able to have anything in this country. I guess it's kind of a order of moves to think about, not so demagoguely and terrestrially invent and lie to the people and plant the story of many things that don't stand here at all. Serbia is creating itself and no one, especially those who have destroyed, will allow anyone to continue doing this. This other law that we're discussing here is the Law on the Protection of Land. It is the first law on the protection of land to be passed in the country of Serbia. Never before has any government passed a system law on the protection of the country. No government, no government has passed a system law on the protection of land and who has the right to talk about it at all from the previous period. This law also systematically regulates the plan and way of using and managing and preventing and protecting land, monitoring, continuous monitoring of land monitoring in Serbia. That's something we have new and that's something that's a step forward towards the EU, and that's something that's a step forward towards opening Chapter 27. Two thousand sixteen years, it will be a great challenge because in that year we must fully arrange our legislation to welcome the opening of Chapter 27 in 2017. I'm convinced that we're going to succeed anyway. In any case, in Serbia, it can no longer happen that we in the Tise canals, we find oil because someone in the process of remediation, did not perform the process, but by removing the grabs, threw where it reaches Vojvodina, conditionally said, dangerous waste. Now, that movie in Serbia will never be seen again. This is another step to prevent crime and prevent, in some way, total degradation and agricultural land, after all, in Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44191	Thank you, Mr. Blazic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44192	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected minister with associates, I will mostly concentrate on two members of the law that are not mentioned, I think they are very important, and everything I say, I will say for good purposes, if it can be fixed what I see is not well solved in this law. Before I go to these two members of the law, I want to say that the amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land are a major step forward and progress, that combined with yesterday's debate in the principle of the Cooperative Law, in this combination I think these two laws will give good solutions, especially in agricultural municipalities, and in particular what will be possible under one new condition for cooperatives, especially agricultural cooperatives to give one new stimulant and a step in the development of agriculture. As for members of the 72nd existing law and member of the 17th new member of the law, it simply provides for and abolishs social property. So, social property on agricultural land no longer exists, which is also a conditional category and it is not disputed. However, another question arises – what about the realisation of the Law on land return, i.e. land maximum, land maximum, and simply not completed? If everything turns into a state property of procedures that are not completed, it will simply not have the opportunity and the land to return to the one to whom it is due to return. For these reasons, my proposal, although I did not submit an amendment to supplement in Article 72 and to allow such land to be returned to earlier owners who were under that law in 1991, I think the basic law was from 1991, to enable it to be returned to that land and in Article 17, to repair Article 17, simply so that this land that was social property simply now becomes state property, that this land next to this land that can be sold under Article 72a, b, v, g and d, I think, etc., that we simply allow this process to be completed. It is simply our truth and reality that the commissions at the local level proposed by the local self-government committees, the ministry is making solutions to the formation of these commissions. So these are commissions, as I say, essentially yours with a proposal of local self-government. If this isn't done, I think local self-government will find themselves in a very difficult position to pay for that missing land that can't be returned, they simply don't have those budgets that can carry out all that. That's my suggestion, with one good intention, I think we still have time to fix it either through the board or through the government. I'm willing to cooperate with someone you define. Furthermore, I am not sure that Article 17(2) here states that a natural person registered as a land user in a state-owned land ceases to be entitled to enter into force on the day of entry into force of this law, except in the case of, and now, if he has a legitimate solution on the return of land in accordance with the law on the terms and conditions of the recognition of the right, etc., on the return of land. If someone has a rightful solution, I don't know why put it into law. It should be implemented or implemented. So I'm not sure she should be standing here, so as part of this, I think we should fix that part. Next, we're witnesses here, it's not within your subject, but I think it's one truth, and that's that almost every other law that's been passed we have an obligation to do part of the business by the Republic Geodetic Institute, as is this law. It is a job of the Republic Geodetic Institute, it should do so, but we must also do so to the Republic Geodetics Institute, you as a member of the Government simply at certain times when it is discussed in the Republic Geodetic Institute, when it is discussed numbers, about funding, about capacities, about technicals, etc., which monitors the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, simply to equip it so that this complete business can work qualityly and quickly. I'm going back to the point that I answered, which is to try to fix Article 72 and Article 17, to allow commissions to do their job. Thank you. I thought I understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44193	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go, Master Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44194	The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, is the fact that, in the current practice and application of the current law, certain problems have been identified, because the previous changes made six years ago were not complete, and thus did not fully enable its effective realization and therefore have just resorted to the creation of this new law. The need to introduce new solutions was also indisputable in order to allow better not only the management of state-owned agricultural land, but better the management of agricultural land in all forms of property that our legal system knows, but also better the way and system-based solutions of planning, maintenance of protection, measurement of the arrangements and use of agricultural land, as natural wealth and goods of general interest. The provisions of the applicable law lay down a number of competences in the field of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land carried out by local self-government, as well as obligations or certain powers and opportunities. All surveillance operations are carried out through a Republic agricultural inspector. It is necessary to point out that the competent authority of the local self-government unit, educated in the field of agriculture, has a number of obligations, and do not have the mechanisms to carry out these obligations properly, because they do not have jurisdiction, for example to resolve complaints from registered agricultural holdings and citizens regarding the illegal occupation of agricultural land. The proposed amendments and additions to this law regulate the issue of long-term leases, in a way that ensures the needs of self-employed landowners, while opening up the possibility of improving agriculture through the growth of investments in agricultural land that will give effect to higher employment, the possibility of increasing income and the possibility of increasing productivity and efficiency in agriculture. The extension of leases from 20 to 30 years is an economically justified solution guaranteeing the safety of the tenants, which would invest in multi-year plantings from a cost-effectiveness aspect. The introduction of a fine for the illegal use of land should significantly reduce the unlawful use of agricultural land in state property because there were no provisions for usurping so far. The sale of agricultural land in state property creates the possibility of developing agricultural production, small and medium-sized farmers, since changes and additions of laws give the possibility of buying to natural persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and who do not have more than 30 hectares of agricultural land in private property. The good side of this law is that it has clearly laid down a procedure for the exercise of the right to cross-referencing agricultural land in state property. It is also significant that the duty to conduct a book of fields and fruit-bearing products has been introduced, which is of great importance in the field, vegetable and fruit production. Decisions proposed by this law will affect the development of agriculture in local self-government units, as well as the increase of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will have a number of positive effects on the development of domestic agriculture. I've already mentioned, meaning an irritable higher unemployment, will increase the number of potential users for the design and improvement of agricultural production, a more regulated agricultural policy through the prescribed control system and preservation of agricultural land, as a natural wealth through a regulated control system. When we talk about such a law, we inevitably ask whether it creates new economic operators on the market and whether competition is created. It is certainly expected to create new operators on the market, which will encourage market competition itself. Such legal solutions are expected to increase the confidence of end-users of appropriations based on agriculture and rural development, as well as to increase the number of natural and legal persons interested in launching or improving agricultural production. The fact that more favourable conditions for the lease of state agricultural land directly affected farmers dealing with cattle or milk production, that it would preserve and increase the stock fund and create safe export potential, which is certainly an important development component in Serbia's agricultural production. The discussion that the law was brought to a plenary debate, without the word of the interested parties being heard, absolutely does not stand in this case. The debate on the law led in Belgrade on 6 August this year, in Nis 7 August and Novi Sad on 13 August. It was during these discussions that positive opinions were presented on most of the solutions to the draft law at the time, but also numerous comments and suggestions. You, Minister, with your associates and professional services, have considered all the comments and suggestions that have been received and included in the text of the Bill of Law a number of these suggestions, which significantly improves the text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. For the proposed amendments and additions to this bill in the voting day, I will certainly vote for these legal solutions with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44195	Thank you, Mrs. Djokovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44196	Thank you, Chairman. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I support the proposed legislative solutions that are on the agenda today, and in particular the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land. The essential reason for this, we have heard today on several occasions, is to enable better management of agricultural land in public, or state property. In fact, as we have heard, our country loses nearly 100m euros annually due to the failure to issue more than 500,000 hectares of state agricultural land. In doing so, I mean the real agricultural land, so not those famous pastures in Vračar, where some former ministers were magically building buildings, residential spaces, business spaces, and who knows what else and getting rich at the expense of the citizens, but we're not going to waste time on them today. They're people of the past, they're a party of the past, and it's best if we stay there. We've had more problems in this area so far. First, a large part of the state land was the subject of abuse, i.e. usurped, as well as the fact that small agricultural producers were, to the most large extent, practically, disabling the right to rent. It is all the result of the bad regulations that are reflected in the current law, or law, and because today we are passing a new law. Three key reasons to pass this law. With the new law, we will increase transparency when leased and suppress the possibility of corruption, i.e. for usurping. So, we introduce order when renting agricultural land, and by local self-government we impose a responsibility for more responsible treatment and introduce penalties for agricultural land usurpers. The second reason is that the new law strengthens small agricultural producers. Therefore, the adoption of this law allows small farmers to increase their holdings and significantly improve production through the purchase of state agricultural land. As an example, I will list only one member that allows only small producers, who own up to 30 hectares in their possession, from now on will be able to buy up to 20 hectares of land on the territory of the municipality or city where they have their residence for at least three years. Another example is that land that has not been issued before, or has not been issued in the past three years, will now be issued for up to five years, with an initial price at zero dinar bid, which I really consider another one in a series of benefits that this law provides. The new law attracts new investments and creates new jobs. Thus, by adopting a new law, we directly encourage new investments in agriculture and create new jobs by providing the possibility for agricultural producers to expand their production, expand their performance and thus increase profits. The goal is for each new investment to bring a new additional inflow into the budget of local self-government necessary for investments in infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, hospitals and everything else, so to improve the quality of life of citizens. For all these reasons, I call on us to support today's legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44197	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44198	The esteemed chairman, the respected representatives of the ministry, co-workers and MPs, are now on the agenda of two extremely important land laws. These are the proposal for a law on the protection of land, which Serbia has for the first time also passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. Both of these laws in their own way protect land as an unrenewable natural resource. The Law on the Protection of Land is a legal framework for the protection of land against all forms of degradation and pollution, and the Law on Agricultural Land, which we are talking about today, protects our agricultural land, which is the basis for the development of agriculture against abuse, untappedness and desertion. Starting right from the fact that land in general, and thus agricultural land is the most important resource of each country, it is extremely important that it is used and protected in the best way. That is exactly the goal of both the legislative proposals we are talking about today. As I come from Vojvodina, which is the grain of our country, I would like to speak first of all about the bill of amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. The amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today will allow small producers to increase their ownership by buying agricultural land and thus their production, which will in general represent an important step in creating strong and sustainable agriculture. In particular, the proposed changes are made to small and medium-sized agricultural producers with up to 30 hectares of their country's right to purchase up to 20 hectares of state agricultural land. Registered agricultural holdings, i.e. small agricultural producers, will be able to buy land on the territory of local self-government, where they have a residence of at least three years to buy wars. In this way, conditions will be created for these small producers to become more competitive, financially strong, and production to become cheaper. The fact is that in Serbia, but also in more developed agricultural countries, the base of primary agricultural production is small holdings. Therefore, the state should and must propose to favourable legal frameworks and incentive measures the economic strength of small and medium-sized farmers, i.e. family agricultural holdings. As a priority goal of this law, I am now seeing conditions for small and state-owned small producers. On the other hand, large producers, i.e. legal entities, the law enables long-term leases of state agricultural land, create the possibility that a legal person may rent up to 30% of state agricultural land on the territory of the local self-government unit provided for in the lease. Thus, large producers create conditions for greater investments in agriculture for long-term plantings, for the construction of processing and storage facilities. Large producers and should deal with the processing and finalisation of agricultural products and small primary production. With this approach, the law creates preconditions for strategic and long-term planning of agricultural production, as a legal person can buy agricultural land for up to 30 years. Security is created for both small and large producers, because the agricultural product will have someone to sell, and large ones will provide regular and organised buy-ins with cooperative connections with small producers. All of this will contribute to better use of agricultural land, natural resources, increase production and reduce costs. Only by strengthening small holdings that will produce not only for themselves, but also for the market can the recent years and decades be reduced by a negative trend, which is the emptying of the village and a negative natural growth. Dear People's MPs, I would like to point out in particular that this bill solves the multi-annual problem of non-transparency, abuse in the issue of agricultural land, and so we have come into a situation that only 30% of the area of available state agricultural land is leased, while 70% is free or usurped. It's time to introduce order in this area. State and local self-government are estimated to lose around 100m euros annually because of their irresponsible relationship to this strategic resource. For these very reasons, the new law establishes the obligation of local self-government to clearly establish the areas of state agricultural land on its territory. Local self-government will be obliged to bring in annual programmes for the use of agricultural land with accurate data on available land and a clear release plan or otherwise will be left without transfer funds. Penalty policy is also more severe according to usurperators who, among other things, will be deprived of crops for the illegal use of state agricultural land. As a confirmation that this law will help local self-governments, I will let you know that in the 2013 State Audit report in the municipality from which I come, it states that 51,0308 hectares is unlicensed land, which has been processed by unknown persons. The last annual programme of protection, planning and use of agricultural land in the municipality of Vrbas was adopted in November 2013. Of course, there were initiatives from responsible people in the municipality, but I also think that these new legal solutions will certainly help solve these problems, which we had at the bar. Finally, I would like to point out once again our opinion, the opinion of the SPS Parliamentary Group, that the proposed amendments and amendments to the agricultural land law contribute to the conservation of agricultural land as a natural wealth and the improvement of its use exclusively for agricultural production. This is a socially responsible law, because it cares, first of all, about small producers that it puts in the centre, through an orderly system in management and control, which is of paramount importance for the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44199	Thank you, Miss Marash. Your task force has no time left. The word has a National MP Goran Mladenovic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, Serbia has long been waiting for amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act that we are discussing today and can freely say that Serbia may be waiting too long for this law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act for the simple reason that these repairs in the basic legislation on agricultural land will provide serious preconditions for significant and significant progress in agricultural production. There is no doubt that this is another one in a series of reform laws that we have discussed, which we have adopted and that we will discuss. Certainly an extremely reform law, and the concept that propagates is certainly bold and courageous. The bold and courageous in the sense that the previous governments and parliaments, in which the SNS did not participate, were not able to resist the different interests, were not able to counter the various tycoon lobbys, different interest organisations and associations, so instead of giving up recognition to this Parliament and the government that found a solution and we had the strength to establish legislation, i.e. amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, which represent a radical turn and certainly a turn in advance, we are listening to the accusations that these amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land are not in fact transparent and harmful. I would therefore concentrate, first of all, on the members of the laws that were the subject of the most severe criticism, and in fact the members of the Law which were the subject of the most severe criticism are only one big step forward for the development of agricultural production and for the development of the interest of the Serbian state. Namely, in Article 3 of the amendment and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land, which refers to Article 60 of the Basic Law on Agricultural Land, I quote: "if the unit of local self-government does not adopt a programme under the position of the 2nd member, in accordance with the provisions of this article, the Minister responsible for finance affairs, on a proposal from the Ministry, temporarily suspends the transfer of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. the corresponding part of the income tax to that unit of local self-government until the obligation is implemented", the end of the quote. Therefore, local self-governments that do not bring in a programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land will be left without part of the transfer funds involved in profit tax. In other words, there will be no more local self-government in Serbia, there will be no more municipalities and cities that will not have their own protection programmes, arrangements and use of agricultural land, because I do not know any local self-government, any municipalities, any city that would allow such a luxury to remain in times of crisis without such an important and important transfer concerning part of the profit tax. In that same article, another change, certainly worth the attention. In Article 3(3) of the amendment and addition of the Agricultural Land Act, which refers to the basic law of Article 60. The law on agricultural land, the programme is said to be brought by the president of the municipality or mayor, which was the case previously based on the Commission's opinion, which will have at least half of the farmers now joining the opinion of the graduate agricultural engineer. After that, this programme is delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture for consent. In this way, the addition of the first phase of transparency in the Law on Agricultural Land has been ensured, for the simple reason that we have factors that in the very beginning, when setting up a programme of protection, planning and land use, have several institutes, i.e. several levels of government and organisations are involved. Namely, the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor, brings a programme of arrangements, use and protection of agricultural land on a proposal from a multi-member board, of which at least half of them must be farmers, and now, according to new ones, they are joined in the work of a graduated agricultural engineer, who will certainly bring and contribute to the quality of the production of the same programmes. The programme, of course, is delivered to the Ministry of Agriculture services and will have insight into the programme and the minister of agriculture. You can see that there are five elements involved that have been following, from the very beginning, the adoption and adoption of a programme of use, regulation and protection of agricultural land, so I say that at the very initial stage, the first and basic condition of transparency has been established. Let's go further around the members where the loudest noise and halabuca were raised by, let's say, certain MPs. We've got two rentals: right to a short lease and the right to a lease. I would quote Article 7 as saying, "The law of the lease," for the sake of the public, what we MPs are discussing and what we are going to adopt, to be known to legal and natural persons and citizens at all, and to Members of the public who may not have worked in detail on this subject and until the end, "for a period of 30 years, there is a legal person who is enrolled in the Register of Agricultural Lands and is located in active status and which provides an investment plan to which consent, with a proposal, gives a commission which is educated by the Minister responsible for agricultural affairs" and further states that "this land cannot amount to more than 30% of the total area of agricultural land", etc. Therefore, the agreement on the investment plan and the proposal for a measure is given by the commission educated by the minister responsible for agriculture affairs, and after which the proposal is submitted to the local self-government unit that makes the decision on the rental championship within 30 days. We can ask – what's controversial about it? What is disputed about a legal person in the ministry, the service, delivering an investment plan to the minister, that the minister forms a commission consisting of professional people, which will carry out the evaluation of that investment plan, and that afterwards complete documentation with an investment plan, which includes the number of employees, which includes the volume of investments, which includes revenues, which includes the effects of such investments on the basis of the right of the lease, deliver to the local self-government unit to decide within 30 days? So, again, things are coming to the local self-government unit on whose territory, and they need to know clearly and loudly about local self-government and all the mayors and presidents of the municipalities, decide whether the investor will be allowed to rent a lease in the area for a particular agricultural land located on their territory. We are counting on local self-government to act securely for the reasons that the committee benches are committees that express the will of citizens, the population of a certain municipality, that they will take care of the investments offered by the Ministry of Agriculture. And if local self-government assesses that this investment is quality and good for their environment, within 30 days it decides to implement the investment project in the territory of local self-government. So I say that this is extremely transparent, that it shortens the procedure, but that one decision that provides a serious approach to potential, domestically, either foreign investors. In the second case, the right to a more frequent lease, the procedure is reversed in some way, because the right to direct hire is carried out by units of local self-government, by making a public call, and the right to repurchase is, in the first instance, the owner of a system for irrigation, drainage, ponds, agricultural facilities and multi-annual plantings. In other cases, the owner of domestic animals, i.e. the owner or the owner of facilities for the breeding of these animals. I think this makes sense. It is logical that one who has invested in agricultural production also has the right to a shorter lease. To me, this is logical, that the one who owns and invests in agricultural production in irrigation systems, who has invested in the disposal systems, the one who owns domestic animals, the one who owns the facilities because he owns buildings that are used to keep the same animals in order to have the right to rent. In this way we encourage and motivate, but in this case both legal and natural persons to make additional investments in their agricultural production, to further improve their agricultural work, to further encourage in this way and to motivate them to be more successful and efficient in their agricultural production. It's logical, and for me personally, there's nothing controversial here, especially because of the next practical example I'm going to give you, which is happening in the area of the Pcinj County, specifically in Vladic's Han Municipality. In fact, in the territory of the Pcinj County, more specifically with the parent headquarters in the municipality of Vladičin Han in the 1990s, the social enterprise had been operating the agricultural combination "Delishes" and I believe that older generation members know about the brand "Hani" juices, "Hani" spoons, final products of fruit and vegetable production coming from that agricultural combination. This combination had thousands of employees within its company and had over 1,500 cooperatives that existed, operated and worked on the territory of Vladicin Han and the Pcinj County. There are no noisy representatives of the opposition to hear this after 2000 and this agricultural combination, as well as all other social-owned enterprises in Vladic's Han and in the area of the Pcinj County, ended their fate with absolute ruin. Where's the failed paper and packaging factory that used to hire a thousand and a hundred people? Where did the furniture factory, known as the ‘AD Sloga’, which employs 830 workers, fall apart? Where did the “South Morava” that employed about 150 workers fall, otherwise the cable factory for ropes and power lines? Where did the "Hanplast" Cerada and tarmac factory that hired close to 200 workers go to waste? Where the brick factory failed about 300 jobs, etc. In this collapse and social enterprise, this agricultural combination called "Delishes" unfortunately ended tragically, to say, in economic terms, its fate. The good news is that within four years we managed the local self-government of Vladicin Han municipality, we managed to launch 60% of all these facilities closed, of course thanks to the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You heard, an investment has also been announced from 800 employees of Teklas company in the once furniture factory, today it will deal with auto parts production and employ 800 people. We also start a cable and rope power plant with 60 workers, a dairy worker who employs 50 workers there will employ up to 100 workers. To go back to the topic of the agenda, not to give up, and that is the failure of the Delishes combination, only from this distance, given what happened positively on that occasion is that "Nectar" from Backa Palanka bought one part of the combination, it is a concentrate factory and it employs about 100 workers in its plants. This year, at the recommendation of the government and prime minister, and this time I publicly thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the company owner himself said, decided to increase his processing capacity, so he installed another 50 tanks to increase the number of employees in the existing 100 for a certain time, employs another 150 seasons. It is interesting that these 150 seasonal workers still work today in this company to process fruits and vegetables, primarily fruits in the stages of semi-products or finished products of final production. Now, as we can see, this company is slowly predicating to take the positions that Delishes once had, but for such a thing, this company needs a raw material base. In order to have an orphanage, it takes agricultural land and we in Vladic's Han have 300 hectares at our disposal of agricultural land that hasn't been processed for 15 years. It is not processed for the simple reason that the maximum time limit for renting the agricultural land can be up to three years. Which the investor can and can invest in a three-year period, when it is due to deliver, when it is due to give up to a five-year-old full-time period, it highlights the lease and practically turns out that the other bidder who receives the same land on a public call should now collect the results and fruits of the work of the investor who has invested in planting and nursed the seedlings up to three years. So, I can't understand that someone is against investors like this who can offer such investment plans and that such an investor doesn't deserve and should not get agricultural land in the lease for up to 30 years, to employ more pickers, cutters, mechanization, to employ drivers on these mechanisms, to therefore increase its cooling capacity because it now has 6,000 tonnes, will increase the consumption of electricity, thus increasing the revenues to the EPS. It will also have to employ additional technologists in the process of processing and producing semi-products or finished products and, of course, employ at least 200-300 seasonal workers. Why would anyone be against the growth of agricultural production, why would any of the MPs be against increasing the number of employees, why would any of us be against increasing exports, as probably a large part of the production will end up in exports as well. Why should we in this way be against the additional revenues made by the state, against the additional revenues generated by local self-government, against the additional revenues generated by the company itself, which would likely invest in new capacities from additional revenues. This way we reduce the deficit, this way we reduce the public debt. On the contrary, we have areas in the territory of Serbia that are intensively growing into weeds and nuts, and all of these destinations are potential areas for investing investors, legal entities with such an investment plan. Just to say that the town of Leskovac has about 50,000 hectares of such land, Alexinac has 1200 hectares of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia, Shop 800, Nis about 1000. I say, all these are potential destinations for such investments that can invest in their agricultural capacities and that can invest in processing capacity. So I say that these are good destinations, whether for domestic or foreign investors, whether it's "Tenis" from Germany or investors from Arab Emirates, or a domestic investor such as "Nectar". All investors in this sense, in this context, are welcome. I just want to, I did repay, a few comments on the Law on the Protection of Land. Indeed, this law deserves attention, even less than the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, for a simple reason if we know that three of the most important natural resources for the survival of living world water, air and land and that the state of Serbia has the Law on Water and Air Protection. It was high time to pass the Land Protection Act, especially for the reason that the Republic of Serbia has about 1,200,000 hectares of the highest quality land of the type "blackness", has about 800 hectares of land of the type "farms", to have about a million hectares of land suitable for hill-mounted livestock production. A logical question arises – is there a richer country in the environment than the state of Serbia with this resource? Of course, there is no and therefore this natural resource should be protected, we should protect it and this has enabled this Law on the Protection of Land, for one simple reason, by establishing state and local monitoring at different points, positioned spatially, by establishing a network of measurement points and monitoring the state of land and where degradation and debauchery processes exist, taking steps to protect and preserve this land. These two laws, I end up, make good energy, on the one hand, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, paves the way for new investments, and the Law on the Protection of Land makes the land we use rightly for generations and generations to come to us. This is no doubt reform law. The Serbian Progressive Party and I will personally vote in favour of this law, because we want Serbia to go further into reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44201	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let the MP Aleksandar Peranovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44202	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group have quite extensively elaborated and presented both laws, and this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, as well as a new law on the protection of land. That's why I'm going to be brief and indicate only some of their basic segments. Of course, at the very beginning, I must say that the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is certainly the development of the economy in general, but especially the development of agriculture as very important strategic branches for economic development and for the economic development of our country. The development of agriculture and how important it is, because agriculture as an economic branch affects the rise of domestic gross social product, affects economic development and the economic development of our country, which is both the government and the Serbian Progressive Party. I also want to highlight some basic segments of the law relating to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, which is its first aspect, it is anti-corruption. This law contains anti-corruption elements. I'll list one element of anti-corruption. This element of anti-corruption concerns usurpation, i.e. the takeover of agricultural land without legal basis and, in that sense, for such natural and legal persons, fines are much higher and, of course, the possibility of stripping crops for the benefit of the local community is envisaged. Also, if the usurper is unknown, the law precisely states that in this case local self-government has the authority to remove crops, or fruits from the property. As regards transparency, clarity, openness and precision, it is already stated at the very beginning that this law had been in public debate for a long time, that all relevant entities were involved in its changes and additions, that most of the suggestions that the relevant entities and of course agricultural producers who were, apart from the state-owned agricultural land, were also involved in its changes and additions, in the focus of the interest of this law. Many of their objections are included in the amendments and additions to the laws and, of course, what concerns transparency, this is a special visibility, i.e. complete openness when it comes to the lease of agricultural land, but when it comes to the sale of agricultural land. What I must also say, and as far as transparency is concerned, it is that when it comes to the sale of agricultural land, a public invitation is published. A public call is issued by the unit of local self-government, a public call with the precise market price of concrete land, and according to the tax administration's assessment and according to the catastrian plot, is published on the local self-government advertising board, published on the local self-government portal, but is also published in the daily list, as well as in the official local self-government. In any case, it shows that there are no hidden intentions here. On the contrary, everything is clear, everything is transparent, the procedures are clear and accurate. What I must also point out is that it is an introduction into possession when it comes to the tenants and the term of introduction into possession, in fact, it looks at one coordination and the connection between the authorities at local level, but I must say that through the whole law it implements, since the subject of the law is state land in the property of the Republic of Serbia, one coordinated activity and coordinated connection of all levels of government, starts from local self-government, to republican institutions, ministries and government, because it is certainly necessary, given that it is public good in the general interest and ultimately, of the public good that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to, both those in Subotics, and those in Prizica, Uzica, King, etc. What I must tell the agricultural producers, first of all, small and medium-sized agricultural producers who are in the focus of this law to order, is that for the first time this government has put them in the focus of legal regulation and in the focus of the legal basis, so that small and medium-sized farmers will no longer be able to rent agricultural land or buy from tycoons and greeners, but rather that the state provides them with the opportunity to come to land in such a way. Yesterday, we also had the Cooperatives Act, which this government proposed to the National Assembly, which also in a clear and unequivocal way points to the possibility of connecting agricultural producers, precisely in order to best meet all their needs, relating to agricultural production, to the placement of agricultural products, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44203	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. Thank you for appreciating that even your colleagues he has reported have time to discuss. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic, and let the National MP Olivera Pesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44204	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with his associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia and agricultural producers who are monitoring today's transfer, is in front of us, I would say at the very beginning, one of the roof laws in the area of agriculture, i.e. the addition of the Agricultural Land Act and something I can immediately say is commendable. I would say that the government is in some of its analyses to reach this law to conclude that only about 30% of agricultural land is issued in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the loss in the case of the Republic of Serbia is about 100m euros. These are the reasons for passing such a law, and it must be acknowledged that it should stand in the way of all the boastful things when agriculture is concerned. I come from a farming area in the Mačvan County, from Sapca I always say that, because I am delegated by agricultural producers and citizens of Serbia to hear their voice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia even though my basic profession is not directly related to agriculture. The objectives of this law are the arrival of new investments. New investments will only come if we have a regulated system and created conditions for every new agricultural producer and every hectare of agricultural land that can be done in the best possible way. Furthermore, improved productivity and efficiency, improving the lease procedures, enabling equal and equal representation of agricultural land users, improving policy, using and managing, improving monitoring of use, increasing interest and numbers, this is very important. Because we had a situation in previous years where in certain municipalities or we could say at the level of the entire Republic there were three, four tenants who came to auction, they picked up the land all the others when the biddings were at issue and some worse things were happening. I am convinced that these changes will no longer be and that they will stand in the way of all these tycoons and boastful shops when it comes to agricultural land. What's the most important? This law will improve the agricultural production of small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, or natural persons. We had a situation where one of the tenants took some land, I speak from a personal example, out of its midst. Ten years ago, when there was a great drought in the Republic of Serbia, where it did not have an adequate, or good generation, the tenant did not pay the rent, it can no longer happen. By law like this, we will create conditions, first of all, for an equal bid, we will have the chance and the opportunity for everyone to participate in this and make the income after that. Now I'd like you to make one parallel between this law and the law of yesterday, which we spoke about the Cooperative Act that will be closely connected, and if we respect them, we can get to a real system and order in agriculture. Why does it matter? The important thing is that we need to be both correct and competitive on the market. That's the essence of the story. That we have a quality product and we have enough products. In fact, the merger is something that needs to happen in Serbia, less agricultural producers, the landowners to join in one bigger one and that is how we can offer our product. In the country of Serbia previous years, there has been a syphilic production, regardless of whether we are talking about warfare, fruit growing and vegetables. Here, we have since last year, or this fall, not only do we know how many hectares are planted under raspberries. I would really be happy that all agricultural producers, and even in some segments and I think about it, can make a fine income from making all agricultural producers do it. But I can only earn one way, if the law is respected, all the rules and if we do it in those ways, according to the rules that stand in this law. One more thing, another law that is on the agenda today is the protection of agricultural land, as a physician extremely important and important, but also for all other factors of our society. We had a situation where agricultural land was not treated properly and often developed. We talked here about farming cooperatives, we talked about forests, where forests were often paved with nylon, plastic bottles and all other waste, parallel and agricultural land and forests to make it all polluted. I think the passing of such a law and respect when the system is arranged, when the system is created, we will create conditions. Number one -- healthy environment, number two -- enough fruit from the field, number three -- everyone will be pleased. I believe our agricultural producers will be satisfied with these laws, and everyone will be able to have an equal and equal impact in these agricultural games. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44205	Thank you. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44206	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. In front of MPs today, there are two extremely important laws in the field of agriculture – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land and Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land. Today, in my presentation, I will focus on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. The Republic of Serbia owns about 830 hectares of agricultural land. Of which, only about 240 thousand hectares are processed, and the rest of the land is not processed, or exemplified. This is one of the basic reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. The proposed amendments to the Agricultural Land Act will allow for better management of state-owned agricultural land. The possibility will be created to improve agriculture through the growth of investments in agricultural land in state property. Long-term leases will be regulated and more rational use of agricultural land will be allowed. Amendments and additions to this law will give investors the opportunity for the first time to lease land for a period of 30 years. Investors planning to invest in deforestation and irrigation systems in agricultural facilities in multi-annual seedlings. I believe that the extension of the lease period from 20 to 30 years is an economically justified solution because it gives investors, in this case, security to invest in multi-annual plantings. Amendments and additions to the law prescribe who has the right to purchase agricultural land. The right to purchase agricultural land can be acquired by any natural person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and who owns a maximum of 30 hectares of agricultural land in private property in order to accumulate his property, improve his production and become more competitive on the market. Also, a natural person can buy up to 20 hectares of agricultural land in state property. Also prescribed are the conditions that are agricultural land that can be sold. It is far from the state border, which is not foreseen by the detailed regulation plan, which is not subject to state and strategic objectives in agriculture, which do not belong to protected agricultural goods and which are not within the safety zone. The amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land will affect the development of agriculture in all units of local self-government, as well as the development of the agriculture of the town of Leskovec from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high home. The proposed amendments to the Agricultural Land Act are of paramount importance for the town of Leskovac, given that the town of Leskovac has been defined as the strategic branch of the development of agriculture. The number of registered agricultural holdings in Leskovac is about 12 thousand, in particular 11,748, and in the entire Jablanic district is 21,437. The average agricultural holding has 1.98 hectares of land and the situation is the same as at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia where the agricultural land has small and highly depreciated areas. More than 95% of the total number of land in Leskovac has less than five hectares. Of the total area of agricultural land owned by the state, more than one-third of the territory of the town of Leskovac is not distinguished. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act will allow farmers to increase their capacities in this way. These changes and additions also raised the issue of giving free use of agricultural land which has not been the subject of the lease of the last three agro-economic years and has not been the subject of public competition at the starting price of zero dinars, can be given to the use of natural and legal persons in active status for a period of five years. Since there are about 800 hectares of agricultural land in Leskovac that are not numbered. I believe that these changes and additions will allow farmers to decide to borrow, or get free of charge on the use of agricultural land in state property. It is also possible to extend the use of the land up to 25 years, provided that the agricultural inspector determines that the land is processed and, of course, after five years an adequate lease is paid. What's being achieved this way? Free use of agricultural land increases the farm land area, farmers will have financial benefits, decrease the number of usurpations, and thus both judicial costs and court disputes. Also, fines for the unlawful use of state land are being introduced, as the current Agricultural Land Law has not been covered, so there were no criminal measures for the uptake of land. Also, what is important for associations that, especially in the territory of the town of Leskovec and at the level of all Serbia, that associations will be able to apply as investors and cooperatives, as legal entities, have the right to lease land for 30 years on, of course, the investment plan. Another proposed addition refers to the introduction of the obligation to carry out the field book, with the resulting control of the fruitoreds and this supplement is of exceptional importance for the warfare, vegetable and fruit production of all agricultural producers and is also equally important for the proper use and restoration of agricultural land and the preservation of this valuable resource. Finally, but not least, the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land will reduce corruption, as the proposed changes and additions simply leave no room for privileged ones, who are getting auctioned, what was the practice of previous years. In the voting day, I will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44207	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, with associates, the application of the existing Agricultural Land Act, saw the need to introduce some new solutions, which would allow, above all, better management, or exploitation of agricultural land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land is a very complex and complex law with several objectives, of which the most important increase in investments in agriculture, the possibility of buying state agricultural land, the possibility of giving degraded and unused land into leases, without compensation, as well as tightening sanctions for state agricultural land usurpers with the aim of returning land from the gray zone to legal flows. We could have heard a lot of things at today's debate, so I'm only going to stick to those members of the law that I consider to be the most important thing for our agricultural production. Article 72a, 72b, 72v, 72g. draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land for the first time in Serbia's history gives the possibility to buy small farmers who own up to 30 hectares. With this law, they can buy an area of up to 20 hectares with a possibility of payment of up to five years. This change and supplement is aimed, above all, at increasing the ownership of agricultural producers, creating a basis for increasing the economic and profitability of agricultural production. Article 64a. The bill suggests that up to 30% of total land on local self-government territory can be given to large investors. Based on the investment plan, with the agreement of the Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, and after the decision of the local self-government. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is, above all, to increase investments in agriculture which are almost negligible at the moment, which should have a better use of agricultural land, as well as greater employment, i.e. efficiency and productive agricultural production. Article 61a. Article 5 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, provides for the possibility for tenants to rent state agricultural land which has not been issued for at least the last three agro-economic years by public tender at the starting price of 0 dinars, i.e. without paying a fee for a period of five years, with the possibility of extending the lease to 25 years, with the payment of a fee after five years of free use. Large areas of state agricultural land, especially in central Serbia, whose users were former social agricultural enterprises, after their collapse in the twenties last century remained unprocessed for more than a few years, from a long period of years, resulting in the degradation of the land, which was characterized by abandoned agricultural land in the sense that it grew in forest population and bushy growth. This is particularly characteristic of the former social enterprises that were engaged in fruit and vineyard production, and the example works on the territory of the town of Leskovec from which I come, the two former social enterprises "Navip" Plantage Belgrade and "Porečje" Vučje, users are about 1,500 ha of state agricultural land, which is completely abandoned and in order to bring about the purpose, it is necessary to carry out the deforestation of old orchards and vineyards. This is an extremely expensive process, it is estimated that the hectares cost between 150 thousand and 200 thousand dinars, i.e. this contraction and detention of agricultural land's purpose can only be carried out by large and serious investors, without paying a fee for a period of five years. The town of Leskovac normally runs a very active agricultural policy and could be assured of this by the MPs, members of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, who held a session of the Committee on Agriculture outside the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in October of the month, as well as the State Secretary, who last week, Mr Zeljko Radosevic, who visited the town of Leskovac last week, so this active policy is being implemented, and the mayor of the town of Leskovac, Mr Goran Cvetanovic, is conducting through three very important institutions in our city, and this is the City Administration for Business and Agriculture, the Agency for Local and Economic Development, which is one of the best in this country. So, every year, the town of Leskovac actively brings in a programme of protection, planning and use of state land, and every year the process of issuing state agricultural land is being carried out, renting and so far around 1,600 hectares of farmland has been issued. In the context of this auctioning ad, namely, there is a surface area of about 700 hectares that every year in an ad for publication, and is not issued. It is a land that, due to its long-standing agriculture, Leskovac, a former company of Leskovac Agriculture, which, due to its long-standing non-treatment, has grown seriously in the forest population, bushy growing, corny plants and largely downgraded erosion. For this land through the issue, there are no interested tenants, the only way to put it into office, is to use this member of the law, this land offers interested tenants at 5 years without compensation. It can be concluded from this that only on the territory of the town of Leskovec, of about 2,200 state agricultural land, at this point is it impossible to issue or only possible with the application of Article 61(5). Draft Act amending and supplementing the agricultural land law. The aim of this article is, above all, that agricultural land, as an economic resource, is to bring about its primary purpose, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the possibility of potential investors, reaching more serious agricultural areas and continuing to deal with agricultural production. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as a graduate agricultural engineer and a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Assembly Committee, I will support this law in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44209	Irena Aleksic, and get Nevenka Milosevic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44210	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, I will look back at the law today, which has been less said, and this is the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Land. Something that's very important. It is precisely because there is now no law in the Republic of Serbia dealing with the protection of land as a natural resource, and I think it was very necessary to pass one of these laws for a number of reasons. Of course, compliance with the regulation on the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, but of course that is not a priority reason. The real and basic reason why one of these laws should have been passed is that we preserve the quality of our land, because that's what's basic and because that's what's most important, because we'll all agree on one thing, that without healthy land there is no healthy life. This is what we owe ourselves and what we owe our country, and above all this is what we owe our generations, because we owe them a healthy and quality land. That there is a need to protect the land is more than evident, and therefore there is a need to pass one of these laws, but there is a great need for this issue to be regulated systemically, and that is exactly what this law does. It systematically settles a very important issue regarding the protection of the quality of land. Such a concise law gives a comprehensive, comprehensive, and covers all segments of the protection of land. Whether it's about protecting land from pollution, so whether it's pollution chemically, or waste water, or in some other way, whether it's from fire hazards, from unplanned urbanization, means any form of land protection. Also, when the damage has already occurred, or when the land has already been seriously damaged, this law has been planning to do so, meaning that there is something called the recovery of the same land. Of course, what I would especially commend in this case is that this law also has a preventive character, especially when considering how expensive this recovery is, it really turns out that it is much better to prevent it than to treat it. So I would especially commend and highlight this part of the law that has this very preemptive character. Of course, this bill, that will result in a series of sublegal acts that will certainly enable a better practical application of this law, which is very important. Of course there is, and surveillance is also envisaged to do exactly the practical application of this law, which is extremely important. Because, of course, until there's one adequate surveillance, there's always the possibility that something should not be applied the way it should, and then it's really too high for us to pass laws if we don't make sure that these laws are checked out, whether they're practically applied as prescribed and how they should be. One more thing I'd like to praise about this law, which is his transparency. I think it's something that is very necessary, especially when we live in a single age when information is available and now information needs to be available. When it comes to this law, it is. So, information will be available to people who want to know what quality of their land is in, because in the end they have a lot of right to do it, because they live on that land, they eat fruit from that land, so they have a lot of right to do it. So, indeed, all praises related to this law. When it comes to the second law, I'm going to be much shorter because there's been a lot of words about him today. It is, of course, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. An extremely important issue is being settled, which is agricultural land owned by the state. What do you do with it? How do you use it in the best possible way? What is most important and above all should be pointed out, how to put it in favour of the citizens, or how to put it in favour of specific agriculture and farmers, rather than for the benefit of rich individuals, such as, unfortunately, so far, it has been the case. I think it's some backbone of this law, something that matters most. I think this law has just managed to solve the essence of things, to introduce a single order. I hope it's really going to be right, I'm sure it's actually going to be properly applied. It was really high time to give this really quality agricultural land, to give the possibility to whom – small and medium-sized agricultural producers, who are just the most important ones, to finally develop this agriculture that we so constantly talk about is Serbia's best development opportunity and it is. This is exactly the right way to meet, and this law does exactly what it does, to meet people who, for a change, actually live on that agriculture, and not as it has been the case for individuals who have really become enormously rich. With this law, and it makes me very happy, it comes out to meet an ordinary man, an ordinary farmer. It's no coincidence that yesterday we had the Cooperatives Act, and now there's an opportunity for all these small and medium-sized agricultural producers to be joined. Yesterday, there was enough to say about the practical benefits of all this. So, if they're smart enough, they're organized enough, and I believe they are, I hope that this given opportunity will really be used in the best possible way. That's why I think, because it gives a chance just to an ordinary man, an ordinary farmer, it gives him a chance to live off his work, to live off agriculture and, why not, to get rich off the same. That is why it is necessary to support these laws because they mean a new beginning and mean that something is finally changing in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44211	Thank you. Nevenka Milosevic has a word. Get Milija Miletic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44212	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister of Associates, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected agricultural producers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following our debate today, first of all, I would like to show great satisfaction that we had a great opportunity yesterday and tonight to discuss an important law, the Law on Cooperatives. I am pleased that the debate was mostly affirmative because the great interest of agricultural producers has just been directed at agricultural cooperatives. It is this law that has been set up by economic laws, but we all know that it has and how directly it relates to agriculture. I will continue to discuss two important laws that we are discussing today, and it is very important that we have members of the ministry here who are and how important for the further progress and development of the Republic of Serbia. As for the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land, the main objective, I would say, is that certain problems that have been overcome so far in the application of the existing law, primarily to better manage the state land of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exactly what the data we have now said and heard that the total state land in the Republic of Serbia is about 830,000 hectares, but 580,000 hectares are not used in the right way. The goal is to improve this, to overcome this bad practice, but to prevent corruption. One of the basic requirements and desire is to help the Serbian peasant right now. I think that's the main goal of helping small and medium-sized farmers. We've had bad practice, we've had many missed opportunities, we've heard some today, but only some would still go back, but most go forward, bring good and quality laws that are in the best interest of our agricultural producers. But what I'd particularly point to and base on, that's exactly investment, because serious analysis in agriculture has shown that agricultural investments are at a very low level. That is what we must overcome, and that is exactly what we will do with these amendments and the addition of the agricultural land law. This will also be achieved in this way when we talk about investment, of course, and improving productivity, greater employment in the agriculture sector, but also a greater opportunity to finance the budget, because the huge losses were precisely in this sphere of funding in the budget, but of course to increase the export capacity of our agricultural products. With that in mind, I have to point out that this year we've had a huge profit in the raspberry export budget. That's what I'm saying because I come from Ivanjica, which is the world's largest region in the production of raspberries, and that's good, but it's not good that this raspberries mostly goes unprocessed, and that's why we all have to work together to encourage the development of precisely processing capacities. I would also like to point out that the strategic issue for investment in my municipality, in Ivanjica, is precisely the route of the highway that will pass through Ivanjica and that we will also be sure to bring many investors. In this way we will also open up Golia, open both the Cave and many investments not only in agriculture, but also in tourism and many other areas. Besides, this law brings many other good things. One of them can buy agricultural land for any person who owns up to 30 hectares of land. Monetary sanctions are also introduced, in fact, provisions against usurpation, which have never existed before and has not been applied. I would stress this opportunity that the issue of restitution, which is somehow related to agricultural land, is not the issue of this law. Maybe it's important for the citizens. is connected to agricultural land, but it is regulated by some other laws. We saw in today's public debate that this issue is a sensitive issue and that it's politicized, but no matter what, I have an attitude like most of them that this is a good law that we will definitely support, and of course, we can improve it with more quality and good amendments. As far as the second Land Protection Act is concerned, he was slightly subordinated to this law, I would say, but he is also extremely important, the environmental protection sector will have many, I'm sure, good laws, because he has many accumulated and inherited problems in the sphere of environmental protection. When we talk about protecting land, we all know that land is a natural resource and it's an unrenewable natural resource and it's directly related to our health, which is our greatest resource. This is a comprehensive, comprehensive law, I don't want to repeat myself, my colleague Alexic was just talking about it. Finally, let me conclude, together with the SNS MPs, I will be very pleased to support both of these proposed laws in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44213	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44214	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Agriculture, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Otherwise, here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the SNS list. Today I will speak as my fellow predecessors of the Law on Land that is in state property. We were already talking about this law for several months at a number of meetings, at a presentation of the law that was under public debate, where there were a series of associations that participated in the drafting of this law. So I think that this law is really done in a transparent way, where anyone who wanted to be involved in adding certain things that matter to the issue of state land could have done so. We've had a lot of our meetings together and at our Committee on Agriculture, which I'm a member of. I will say for this law that it is much better than the previous law, that this law allows those regions, such as the region where I come from, Southeastern Serbia, to be able to land that has not been issued so far, and the state's land, to be given the opportunity to issue this land. In particular, let's say that I have an example of a dozen of the municipalities that I pulled out. It is the town of Nis, Svrljig, Doljevac, Meroshina, Gajin Han, Aleksinac, Razanj, Leskovac, Sokobanja, Bolec, Književec, Prokuplje. These are municipalities, i.e. cities that have a total of, say, the town of Nis has 3,166 ha land of state character, and 76 ha was issued, Svrljig has 2,019, and 167 ha was issued, Doljevac has 1,512 ha, of which 42 ha were issued. In these municipalities, it remained an opportunity to issue nearly 20,000 ha. It's only ten municipalities and the city of Nis, where this law is possible to solve it in the best way. That's why I'm going to support this law and we have a lot of good things, which gives this law a chance. I say this specifically for southeastern Serbia, precisely because of this land that has not been issued, because now this law gives the opportunity to give priority to livestock farming. We all know that without the development of livestock, there is no development of real agriculture, because if we want to process the country, that the country is giving birth, we have to use permanent manure for at least a fourth year, and we want to fertilize the land to make the country stronger, to give birth and to have an interest tomorrow. By increasing the number of cattle' throats, this law gives that possibility. We have people who, for example, have a larger number of cattle throats and a lack of land. Now they have the opportunity to rent land for each of the following throats, with the weight in those throats being up to 500 kg. So it could be 7.8 sheep, 7.8 pigs, one cow. That could be one hectare of land. This means that this is a good way to increase livestock and thus ensure tomorrow, as they say, productive action. We always speak here in the Assembly, and my colleague Marijan Risticevic, who also represents the Peasant Party here in the Assembly, says that the previous period by 2012, has been said to be better introduced than produced. I think now we're going to give the possibility that all the land that has not been used so far, which is, as it is said, parked, now we're going to give the opportunity if no one wants to take it, to lease it at that market price as prescribed back three years ago. So there's a possibility that, as they say, zero dinars and that in the next five years, the country will be put into office. By putting the country into office, it will be possible to increase both production and all that is very important. I'm always talking about livestock, with the possibility being given here for all those who want to deal with fruit growing, oatmeal, vegetable life, there's also opportunities to work here. What the remark says is that 30% of this country that is being issued on the territory of local self-government, that 30% must be betrayed to investors, I think we need that if investors come, I would invite all investors to come to the municipality of Srlig, to visit together this land that has not been issued so far, that together with these people we will help us as local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that country tomorrow can also provide a larger number of cattle, that we can provide both quality cheese and quality milk and quality vegetative lamb, shrewl bellowage, i.e. a Viagra, and that more of these products can live on more of our farmers tomorrow. When I talk about Srlig, it means for all of Southeast Serbia. There we need this law to ensure that investors come, to betray the country, and on the other hand, we need to think, and that is very important, and some things, specifically, local self-government. There are many local self-governments that have not been issued in the previous period, have even called for competitions to be issued by a state country, but have been saving it for some of their own, and none of them have had time. Now this law of local self-government has the obligation to ask questions to betray the country, to know exactly which parcel is being issued and of these funds tomorrow local self-government has both the first and second rounds of obligations to issue it. At the very least, I say again, even though no one accepts it, then we have that opportunity to buy it for zero dinars. Investments are very important, investments in livestock, investments in biomass, that we produce both biodiesel and all that tomorrow, and that will require stronger and more serious investors. I say again, we have needs, maybe with this law, some amendments, we'll still contribute to making this law better. I am with Mr. Risticevic, and together we have written some amendments that will contribute to making this law even better. Invited all of our agricultural producers to work, to want to improve along with them and to make agricultural production easier tomorrow, and this law will provide for it. What else is very important to say? In the previous period, we have a 1992 law, it's the Law on the issue of mornings and pastures. Then large areas were issued and were returned to villages, or local communities. These local communities, I'm talking about this part of Southeastern Serbia right now, let's say, that part where I live, we have 7,000 ha where several local communities have the opportunity to feed their own cattle. With this 1992 law, there's nothing to do but build a pond. I would like to invite you, dear minister, together with your government colleagues, and I will discuss this with our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, to get in the process and to change this law, so that this Article 9 can be changed, that tomorrow and in such places it can be invested, that investors come to invest and that they are building and facilities there, and that there is a production of quality, healthy food through livestock production. Once again, as a representative of the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS list, I support this bill. Yesterday we had the Law on Co-operation, where we were given the opportunity for our cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, to be even more active, to be able to participate in buying, to take the country, to buy the country often and to own it all up to our citizens of Serbia, citizens of Srlig, Nis, Boljevac, Knjižvec, Tutina and all municipalities and in Serbia. Once again, as an MP, I support a set of these laws concerning agriculture and I welcome all fellow Members to support and to improve this law with amendments, saying once again that this is how I dressed up as a Serbian folk costume, because I want our citizens, who watch our television, to know that we should not be ashamed of what we have. Nature gave us everything. Agriculture is our great chance and therefore we must all work together to improve living conditions for our agricultural producers and for our villages. I thank you once again, and I invite you, Your Honor, to come along with our Prime Minister in Srlig, to visit together this land that can be betrayed and to provide investors. Thank you. I say again, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44215	Thank you, MP. The People's Messenger Vladan Milosevic has the word, and let Ljiljana Malusic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44216	I would like to begin by commending this law that we have been waiting for for a long time. I would commend him, first of all, for having had the opportunity to give him an opinion and a large number of associations of farmers and experts from our country. I think it's very well and well done. I believe this law introduces order in the issuance of state agricultural land into lease. I'll explain it. So far, the municipalities have been fuscheiling the issue of land, so they looked at these better plots to betray, the rest were not put into the program, and this land that was less quality was not even given into the law. These laws will not allow municipalities to do so, and they will have to write all the land and put it into law. Also, this law stipulates that land that has not been leased in the past three years can now be leased, given to the use of legal and physical persons for a period of five years, which will in particular have an impact on municipalities located south of Sava and Danube, and this is why? In my municipality, the Vladimirs, 702 hectares of state agricultural land, are issued only 200 hectares, why? Because this rest of the land isn't quality. It's acidic land, hard to process, offerings are much smaller, and investments are much higher in order to reach these yields. The offerings may be twice as small as in Vojvodina, and the costs are twice as high and people haven't had the opportunity to pay the rent, em double the cost of production, and then where are they? This law will allow them to finely farm the land and they will all be satisfied, the larger the production. Also, these parcels aren't in large complexes like in Vojvodina. They're plots mostly from three to five acres, and it's even more expensive to produce. It's also a good thing that the number of hectares binds to the number of throats. This is how we encourage livestock production. We all know that livestock production in Serbia has been at the lowest in the last 50 or maybe 100 years. I think this is how this production is stimulated, and it seems to me that it's leaving the initiative to small owners. For example, with me in the municipality, the average property is three acres and 35 acres. These people deal mostly with cattle and they're very valuable, they do a lot of work, they invest a lot. I think this is one little incentive for them to invest even more in production. As for the sale of land, criteria have been clearly established and who can buy that land, and as for the sale of land to foreigners, people, we did not sign it, and international agreements have to be respected and I don't understand people who are now criticising it, and only a few years ago they made such an agreement and now they are criticising us for just respecting international agreements. I don't understand what the problem is. It was an agreement with a delayed fact. Someone must have collected the laurels at the time, you know, we signed the SAA, and now you're getting along as well as you can. One more thing, I've never heard of farmers south of Sava and Danube rebelling against this law. Why didn't they? Because the law is good for them, good for farmers in central Serbia, in western Serbia, in eastern Serbia. You've heard how much of this land is being betrayed yourself. It's not a problem in the Vladimirs municipality, it's a problem in all municipalities south of Sava and Danube. It's only in the Duke's jag for agricultural land. We all know how much of this agricultural land has been used in an unauthorized way. People used land... In particular, in Vladimirs, 134 hectares of the most fertile country. People have used seven or eight years. The dinar one didn't pay the Vladimirs municipality. They dared so much more, they leased the land, they took money from people, and now they've filed criminal charges against these people. I wouldn't owe much, because there are other people who would say something after me, but I would just compliment the Department of State and Agricultural Land who is doing a fantastic job. They're young people, professional people. It's an honor to them, with Maria Tomic and all her company. Well done. I've never seen a more self-sacrificed service in the state administration. Well done. Of course, I will vote for this law with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44217	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word, and let the MP Vlado Babic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44218	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, guests from the Ministry, gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. I just listened to my esteemed colleague from Srlig, and my heart was full. Thank you, Milly, for your desire and your beauty of those folk costumes, it's just a matter of diversity. If there wasn't a village, the village was a base, so there wouldn't be us here in Belgrade. You're great. What do you say after you? I can only say from Belgrade -- well done for this law, because if someone who deals in agriculture and who has land says it's good, I can only nominate, right? It is good that you have conducted public debates in the cities of Serbia, because there has been a voice of cattlemen, warlords, vegetables, farmers at all, and I will certainly vote in favour of this bill. What I would point out is that this law will make a lot of investments, which is very important, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be filled, and it is especially important for small and medium-sized households to develop. So, there will be employment, a mass of citizens will be able to get jobs, and especially in the country, they have no jobs anyway. What's very important, the budgeting is inevitable. We're a country that's come to bankruptcy. Thanks to this government, from a year and a half ago, we come out of it at a big door. The adoption of the proposed law will regulate the issue of comprehensive land protection, in order to permanently establish its functions, prevent distortions and change in land quality, which is very important, means ecology, repair of damaged land in places of abandoned industrial zones and other issues. It will be signed to take preventive rehabilitation measures to ensure its ecological, technical and industrial and socio-economic functions. This will end the ecological functions of land that relate to the irreplaceability of land participation in the production of life supplies, biomass, and other functions that land has. Using the experience of European countries applying national regulations and remarks by the European Commission that none of the existing laws has integrated access to land, the proposal for this law is designed to contain all segments of protection from all sectoral policies, planning, preventive measures, management and use, protection of pollution and degradation, recovery and decultivation. It's all divinely told by Mrs. Minister, well done, and for full exposure today. The aim of this law is to establish, I have no interest, it just came out of me, you know, to set up a legal framework for the conservation of land as a natural resource, to prescribe preventive protection measures, to prevent land quality distortions, to resuscitate damaged land and to take measures to ensure its ecological, technical and industrial and socioeconomic functions. This will create conditions for the security of ecological function of land in the production of biomass, life supplies of renewable energy and raw materials, the ability of land to be a buffer exchanger of atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere, and the role of land in this sense that the biological habitat and the genetic reserve. In Serbia, there are 830,000 hectares of land in state property from which only 260,000 hectares are leased. Imagine how much money we lose. The annual land income that is leased is 51m euros, and the damage of not issuing the rest of the country's land more than 100m euros. This law will change that. State-owned land is used by individuals outside the law, which is inadmissible. Of course, that's gonna sanction, I'm up for it, fines have to be high. But we have one problem, which is that use mostly goes on the NN face. The amendments to the law proposed that land be leased for 30 years, domestic legal persons and citizens and that long-term lease increase the security of tenants in investing in agricultural production. The law respects all specificities, but expectations of all our citizens, and with the aim of enabling investment in agricultural production with an increase in productivity and employment and, of course, income growth. Serbia has a total of five million hectares of agricultural land, of which 3.5 million orans, gardens, vineyards, and the rest of the meadows and pastures. He doesn't know if I have any more time, since there's another sentence. Of course, it is very important to know that agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Serbia, which is used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes. The Republic of Serbia has and manages agricultural land through the ministry. Agricultural land in state property is given to use without paying compensation by a public call issued by the local self-government unit's competent authority, which is very important. If the agricultural land in the state property has not been issued for at least the last three agro-economic years and has not been subject to public competition, at the initial price of zero dinars, agricultural land can be given for use for agricultural production by natural and legal persons, which are entered in the Register of Agricultural Lands and is in active status for a period of up to five years. The decision to grant agricultural land use shall be taken by the competent authority of the local self-government unit with the consent of the Ministry. Thank you for your attention. I could do another job for an hour, but I want my dear colleagues to have time to say something. Thank you for your attention. Of course the SNS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44219	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44220	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, is today on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Agricultural Land Act, and the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(1) and points 9 and 12. The reasons for the adoption of this proposal are, above all, contained in the need to address the problems and shortcomings of the 2008 Agricultural Land Act, which would allow for better management of agricultural land, in the public or state property of the Republic of Serbia, by introducing new solutions and by investing in agriculture. This proposal also defines the concept of agricultural land as good of general interest, which is available and managed by the Republic of Serbia through competent ministries, because so far it has not been defined what is meant under agricultural land. The proposals for this new law would primarily regulate the possibility of long-term leases to ensure the needs of independent tenants, i.e. investors based on investment, so that the amendments of Article 62 extend the lease period from 20 to 30 years. As regards the first round of leases, the starting price of land cannot be lower than the double average price of land lease in the area where it is located, i.e. in the second round, the price would be 70% of the lease price, but the amendment of Article 64 of the existing law makes it clear who has the right to rent and the right to rent. The leaser of land does not have to be made exclusively through advertising and public call and the tenant cannot issue the land in sublet. These amendments and amendments to the laws also regulate the issue of long-term leases with investment in infrastructure development, above all, in irrigation systems, disposal systems, seedlings that are multiannual, logical centres etc. The introduction into possession reduces the possibility of usurpation of agricultural land in state property, thus reducing the number of court proceedings as well as normal costs. I would also like to say a few words about city building land used for agricultural purposes, which are the legal provisions that have been in force so far. According to Article 3. The 2006, 2008 and 2009 agricultural land law, which is defined as building land until its intended purpose is also used for agricultural production. By 2014, the town of Sombor had issued physical and legal persons for agricultural production of cadastrian plots owned by the Republic of Serbia, which are carried out in livability lists as city building land, and according to cultures were fields, gardens, orchards, vineyards, meadows, meadows, pastures, etc. and which has not been built and has actually been used for agricultural production until the time of construction. Thus, natural persons and legal persons concluded a contract on the lease of agricultural land in state property with the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. According to Article 3 of the contract on the lease of state agricultural land, the beneficiary of this land, i.e. the tenant, was obliged to pay all the costs and charges resulting from the realisation of this contract, i.e. during the period of use of this land. Therefore, the payer for the disposal fee is the owner of, or the beneficiary of, agricultural, forest and construction land, and that is the consensual provision of Article 170. The Water Act 2010 and 2012. The basis for the collection of disposal fees for agricultural land and forest land is the amount of cadastrian income, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10-16 of the Regulation on water compensation for 2014, and the basis for the disposal fee for construction land is the average cadastrian income for the cadastrian municipality in which the land is located and at the level of the 20-fold amount of the agricultural land disposal fee from Articles 10-12 of the Water Compensation Regulation for 2014 and 2015, which was in line with the provisions of the Articles 16-18 of the Regulation on water compensation for 2013 and 2014. From all of this, it follows that the tenants to whom the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection had leased the cadastrian parcels located in the building region, and in fact used as agricultural land until the time of construction, were obliged to pay compensation for irrigation at a rate of 20 times the amount of land depletion fee for the average cadastrian income for the cadastrian municipality in which the land is located. As all of this looks on the ground and in reality we can conclude from the following example, let's say, farmer of the N.N. from Sombor, he concluded a contract that the Ministry of Agriculture concluded on 24 March 2014 that the total area issued in the lease of 11,1956 hectares was 2,947,11 euros, which was calculated by the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment of 341,465,80 dinars. Decision of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration of Sombor, 10.3.2015, bound by N.N. is in charge of the disposal fee for 2014 for construction land of 11,2456 hectares of 339,414,85 dinars, resulting in the obligation to pay 330,795,74 dinars on the basis of a contract concluded with the Ministry of Agriculture on the area of 11,1956 hectares. The method of calculating the land disposal fee used for agricultural production up to the time of construction must not be based solely on the copy of the list of immovableities and on the means of use of that land can be established by the registers of the Republic of agricultural inspection or the municipal Commission for the implementation of the public procedure for the lease of agricultural land in the state property, in particular, we bear in mind that the subject of land owned by the Republic of Serbia has been leased as agricultural land. It also states that the lease agreement on agricultural land in the state property which the tenants concluded with the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment because it states that the Republic of Serbia through the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment provides land for leases as agricultural land, and for the same land, the Republic of Serbia, through the Ministry of Finance, accounts for a tax on disposal as in building land, which we believe should be conditioned with a factual situation on the ground and a way of using this land. Unfortunately, these are the tails that have left the former authorities to be dealt with now. This new law also specify the sale of agricultural land in state property to natural persons, domestic citizens. The sale of this land opens up the possibility of agricultural production of small and medium-sized farmers, given the possibility of buying this country to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not have more than 30 hectares of agricultural land in private property. However, the rules that, the criteria under which this agricultural land can be sold are, above all, far from the state border which is quite normal, that it is not in the zone of security and that it does not belong to protected agricultural goods, then, which is not subject to state and strategic objectives in agriculture etc. By the fact that a natural person can buy up to 20 hectares of agricultural land in state property. The introduction of new members of the law, including Articles 2 and 12 and 13 which define the introduction of the concept of the book of the field, which so far has not been, is a document on the planning and monitoring of daily activities and the book of fertility, which is extremely significant for both field and fruit production. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land provides for free use of agricultural land which has been the subject of leases for at least the last three years, and thus the use which has remained undisclosed after the lease in the local self-government unit for a period of up to five years with the possibility of extending this period to 25 years. In Election Day, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44221	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been sent by the people, Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44222	How much time is left, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44223	You have little time so I'd like to ask you, and you have more registered speakers so I'd ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44224	I'll make sure I'm as short as possible. The fact is that agricultural land is a serious resource of RS. The fact is, we've lost a lot of resources over the past 10 to 15 years. I mean a number of businesses, the economy of Serbia, and also a very big concern was agriculture when it comes to combined, but when it comes to the entire agricultural sector, so it's very good that the government, which the ministry recognized the potential of state agricultural land for two reasons. Let's be honest, on the one hand, these are fiscal revenues that are very much needed by the state budget to go to this with as little taxes as possible, in order to avoid layoffs in the public sector, we need new tax revenues, and we already have one set of laws to discuss in detail probably tomorrow. But this law will also help make the budget more full and that all the problems we have through this reform process in the fiscal sector are used with as little layoffs and as little sacrifice as possible for Serbian citizens. So, on the one hand, fiscal income, and on the other hand, we have one serious development opportunity through a large number of investments that we can make when it comes to agricultural land. Here, I'd say two problems arise in today's discussion. One is the problem when it comes to renting agricultural land for 30 years and that 30% of the state-owned agricultural land should be stressed. I think that some colleagues are exaggerating and exaggerating, and I would say, if it isn't too hard to say, that they are scaring the citizens of Serbia. You know, it's not easy to get 30 percent of the land in one municipality today, given for some serious investment. The question is how many municipalities can be realized. It'll take a while. It's a serious process that'll probably take years. On the other hand, this law implies much better use and control of agricultural land. So, there will be a much larger amount of agricultural land offered to farmers today in Serbia and there is no fear and fear that within a short period of time after the adoption of this law, those farmers who have so far purchased land will be left without being able to rent it again and without some means of life, as is said. The other thing is buying land. I think that farmers who are engaged in military production must be clearly and we must say that the interest of the Serbian state is that to a much greater extent we develop livestock farming, to develop vegetables, to develop fruit growing, to achieve much higher income per hectare of the country, and through the possibility of buying land, they will have to provide themselves with the land they need for wartime production. The possibility given to them is very good for me, and I believe that farmers involved in military production will take advantage of this opportunity and increase their parcels. On the other hand, it should be made clear that only in the previous year, 20,000 entrepreneurs closed down their business, and these people probably invested tens of thousands of euros in their jobs, failed. It is illogical for someone to start their own agricultural business on the state land, that on the basis of the country's own country, it counts that in the coming decades it will only be able to achieve this right to the state land. He must also have his own country and on the basis of developing his agricultural business with the state, that if the country succeeds in some lease to come to it, it is good, it will increase its income, but cannot be the basis for some business plan and for some more serious one in longer-term production. That's it. I don't want to exaggerate, to owe. It's just that the law is good. There's a lot of institutes that will help control the country's traffic, make as many areas of state as possible available to our farmers, and I believe that all of this is in the context of the Investment Act. I would remind you that we have passed the Investment Law and that probably a good part of the investment will go into processing production primarily in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44225	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44226	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Land Protection Act works well written, however, within the framework of the law, the SNP has one solution. We believe it is more than necessary that every company whose investment crosses 20,000 cattle on one site is obliged to own a waste treatment plant. I would like to remind you that the establishment of the plant affects increased electricity consumption, hot water, as well as increasing the imports of fertilisers, and all of this together favours the economies of local self-government, on the one hand. On the other hand, the solution offered, linked to the announcements that Tenis is planning an investment of three million pigs per tov. In that case, what happens to the waste, how would it be deposited and where? Because, according to their three-million-dollar-load planning, we're going to face 36,000-foot-cubic waste. I don't need to tell you how harmful this is for land and especially for the environment. For these reasons, I believe that the amendment is extremely necessary and it is realistic that you accept it. The Agricultural Land Act through Article 11 clearly allows for the sale of agricultural land with foreigners, the SNP opposes it and asks the Government to follow an example of an EU member of Hungary that protected its natural resources through the Constitution, in particular, as is land here. There are other examples, of course, Poland, Croatia, Slovakia, many countries, even after joining the EU, which are richer than us, have not agreed to sell their country to foreigners. Each land is inalienable state territory, and agricultural land is a natural good, even natural wealth more valuable than anything else. The claim that the SAA is impossible to break, which I heard here today, because they signed 28 members individually, is not true. He's recently what's called. The state of Kosovo, as a terrorist formation signed the SAA with the EU, without a Member State's statement, and the European Commission ratified the agreement, so I must stress that the SAA is not our holy letter, the Constitution is a holy letter and therefore we need to treat ourselves. The SNP's view that, before the legislation on agricultural land is passed, we must approach a more serious agricultural reform, in which all relevant agricultural factors would participate. Within the framework of the law itself, we have offered several solutions that we believe would be practical. We ask that land lease rights do not have persons who have not fulfilled all tax obligations towards their country and that only after they have fulfilled all their obligations can they seek their rights. It is unpopular to favour legal persons who do not respect the legal system of our country, so we believe that such persons should be sanctioned rather than given them some opportunities. We claim that Article 10 should not be changed, because the current definition of the distribution of revenues from the issue of the state country is completely adequate. According to the interpretation of the amended member, I do not see any obligation of the Republic to repay certain funds to local self-government. It's not in the law, in our opinion and in our interpretation, I don't think it's just on promise basis, it's stable enough. We believe that the right to lease for a period of 30 years should not be left only for legal persons with an investment plan and that Article 7 should define the content and methodology of the investment plan as well as who and how it controls the fulfilment and implementation of the investment plan which is the basic condition for the lease. We ask that on land given to the investor and leased, on the basis of the number of cattle' throats, only cultures are intended as components for livestock. The issue is how the new law will reflect on a further depopulation of Serbian villages, since the proposed land that has not been leased for the last three years is to be used without compensation. The question is, what is the position of the commission on the assignment and agreement with investors, where it opens up again, in our opinion, a space for corruption. The new agricultural land law should highlight the particular importance of a fertile country, such as border and natural wealth or natural goods of general social importance over which no one can have unlimited property. To finish, agricultural land is a matter of national dignity and political responsibility. I hope that's how we all treat him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44227	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44228	Just for a little while, 'cause I've talked a lot today on all these issues, but I can't keep my mouth shut, again. We really don't foresee the sale of land to foreigners by this bill, and I urge you to show where it says it now, to show the citizens, and I'm showing it today, and once again, the only sale is mentioned in Article 11, and there is exactly what it takes to fill a natural person in order to buy a piece of state agricultural land. You say the SAA deal can be broken up. I want to say that I only mention this agreement when it is mentioned by some in the context of their concern what we do to go to the event, September 1, 2017, and then I tell them – this law is not about it, so I tell them – that's what we inherited, that's what we're going to deal with, what we're going to fight with. So, what they did, I just have to answer it, otherwise I wouldn't mention it. Secondly, you say the distribution of funds, do they have any municipalities from the lease of state agricultural land? You probably didn't pay enough attention to the law, i.e. the previous law and these amendments, because it's a clear rule, and today I'm the same in the opening statement, and then in the debate, so, as the lease funds are divided, 30, 30, 30, by 40%, if the land is in the province area. Or 60 to 40 if in central Serbia. What does that mean? Thirty percent of the province's budget, 30% of the republic's budget and 40% of the municipality, if it's in Vojvodina. And I say 60% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and 40% of the local self-government budget, if it's in central Serbia. As far as pig farms are concerned, as far as farms that could be built on state agricultural land are concerned, each of these farms will have to obtain a permit. You know, about an integrated permit that talks enough about giving attention and that we're looking for evidence to prevent environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44229	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Petrich. Please, just for a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44230	I'll be brief, so I don't hold back, but this has been a few days since we've had marathon sessions. You just repeated in article 11. What I'm saying. So it's sold to a physical person, it can be a foreigner, it's not banned from selling to a foreigner. So you just confirmed what I said. As for the SAA, perhaps you didn't mention it yourself today, I can't follow everything, but some colleagues have mentioned it, so in that context I said so. Regardless of the period when it was signed, if I'm not mistaken, you were in the coalition, specifically the party you belong to and the person who signed it personally, you were in the coalition. But we're opening up a political issue that I want to avoid, I'm just saying that the SAA can break up. So, only if there's a will set out on both sides, because this SAA applies to our country. So 28 members, there's not much to ask, we're the ones who run things. So we can say no to the EU at some point about those things that are bad for us. That's my opinion, and I think the government should think that way. Again, I didn't get a commitment from the Republic to recover funds from local self-government. If that's what I predicted, I apologize, but I don't think I've seen anywhere in any member that there's a possibility, that there's a duty of the Republic to repay certain funds, because it all ends up in the Republic Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44231	Thank you. Replica Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44232	As for the funds that should belong and belonging to local self-governments, the tenants clearly state on the accounts the number of the party, the jury account of local self-government and that is strictly and precisely defined and there are no problems. You say - there's no sign of foreign faces. And here, in Article 11, I urge you to read again. Under one - agricultural land in state property, a natural person can acquire if he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and then if he has registered agricultural land and in active status for at least three years, then, if he is a resident of the village, or a municipality where the land in question is located, again for at least three years. These are some of the key, but there are many more, many of those items that each person has to fill in to buy land. On that, I beg you, let's see what it's like in the surrounding countries. Someone mentioned Hungary today, and I think it's a really great example of many issues when it comes to agricultural problems. Well, this is exactly how Hungary implements a program to sell agricultural land to small farmers. Please, please, through the "Earth of Peasants" programme, there is now a second or third public call this year, and they also consider that three years of residence in the village of the municipality, where the country is located, is fully protected from the purchase of land by foreign citizens. Please, check it out, so we'll be in the next few days, when it comes to amendments, so let's see who's right. I don't know what else you've mentioned, but I'm very happy to answer, I say, we'll continue on Thursday or Saturday.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44233	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44234	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Bečić, Minister, Secretary of State, Mr Radosevic, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, this debate on the law in principle, in particular on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, has been detailed through one exhibition, where we had only a political debate for moments, and in the last part here, which is also commended by colleagues from other political parties, a good, constructive debate, which everyone had the right to make their arguments and opinions about the law. And I, as a People's MP, who has received the trust of the citizens who voted me, use my right to say my opinion, which is certainly not for you, as someone whom we, as MPs, have chosen, is not a reason for you to answer me in one color, which is not an academic debate at all. I didn't say a single word, but when I asked for a replica, I didn't get one. But we're not going to talk about it. I want to talk about the law with argument. So we start in order. No one argues that such a law should be passed and we here in the Assembly have a task and obligation to the citizens of Serbia, who sent us to contribute as much as possible to the adoption of a better law. I took it seriously, seriously read the whole law, studied well, participated in all the discussions and expressed my objections that were not only my own, but the opinion of experts in the fields of economy, agriculture, agro-economy, etc. And I specifically asked for the lawyer's opinion, because I'm not a lawyer by vodka to get an explanation. Here in law you have, so I'll only list what I think, and that's a suggestion, and it's an MP's task to draw your attention to something that's wrong. It must not be seen as an insult, because if it is seen as an insult, it is not an academic debate, but rather something that we have had the opportunity to see very ugly. It's about the next one. So I certainly believe that you had the best intentions, as the previous governments had the best intention of passing laws that would benefit the citizens. However, you here and in Article 11 in Article 7v. and other members, you have three positions, but here I will read it, says this – when it comes to renting land, land in state property, a natural person can acquire a burden on legal work, under the conditions prescribed by this law, and at the end of the article you say – the government prescribes closer terms, way and process of sale, as well as the documentation delivered in the sales process. So, that's what the government will prescribe, we're not talking here about the conditions that you have stated for these ordinary producers, which are commendable that they can buy the country and I'm at the beginning of my presentation, as an authorised representative, noting that my debate will not apply to them, but will refer to that third of the country for which the discretionary right of the Ministry of Agriculture is given, to decide on the way, conditions, the price height, etc. Or, in Article 64, also ultimately, the minister prescribes closer in the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to cross-referencing, as well as the documentation to be provided with a request for the exercise of the right of uninterrupted lease. So that's what you wrote, not me, I read it. And since I've had the chance to get an education, I've read it well, and with what's written here, we say we're gonna sell something. How? Well, we'll see. I do not doubt the good intentions of you, as Minister, nor do I doubt any member of the Government you represent, however, if we had the opportunity to see, to get as a Committee on Agriculture, means this document is called – Opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption on the provisions of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Agricultural Land. I don't know if you got this document. I will only read to you what it says – the proposed solutions contain risks, corruption relating to the granting of wide discretionary powers to public authorities when making certain decisions, allowing the Government to prescribe the conditions, way and procedure for the exercise of the right of the championship and the criteria for determining. Governments should prescribe closer conditions, methods and procedures, etc., as well as the absence of deadlines for the conduct of public authorities in certain situations. The bill requires more detailed regulation, criteria and procedure for extension. And finally, since I, unfortunately, would talk for an hour, but I don't have that kind of time, so I'm going to read to you just at the end of what it says, the proposed solutions contain certain risks of corruption related to giving wide discretion to public authorities when making certain decisions to leave to the government to prescribe conditions, way and procedure for the exercise of rights. That's what we're worried about. I am obliged to tell my citizens when I leave, and I am pleased to say, all of us MPs will come into our midst and explain to our producers, to their great joy, to what we have brought. It's my duty to say it publicly. This is true. The director of the Fight Agency, Tatjana Babic, signed it. I'm not arbitrary, and you're telling me at one point even, that I'm not telling the truth about the SAA. I'm not going to argue with you, and I expect you to answer me academically for reasons why, by the years I have and by the academic training I have, I'm in front of you. A lot of years. Maybe you can see it. So I just want to tell you that one law like this must take into account what the Anti-Corruption Agency has given. So you have to specify precisely, and our amendments that we have submitted are in that direction, not in the direction of demeaning your personality, your names and actions, or anyone else. I want you to experience my discussions that way, because at first you acted as you did not, because the SAA is a framework agreement that every country has to sign if it wants to start negotiations, and you can't convince anyone that it's different. They can read that on the website. Don't say I wasn't telling the truth, I was telling the truth, I'm not lying, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44235	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44236	I really always try to be a constructive talker of MPs. I always try to explain what we did. I'm trying not to hurt anyone. Today wasn't my goal, nor was it to hurt you. I don't know why you're hurt and offended. You are now returning to the topic of the SAA agreement again, and you say – that was a condition for the start of negotiations. I didn't go into that story politically at the time, I just said that those who agreed at the time could be a little wiser, so to say, yes, we'll accept those rules, but that's a very sensitive rule. Give us a chance, as you have given other countries, to have transitional periods. That's the only part I reacted to. Someone told me - where was the Socialist Party then? The Socialist Party has always been a state-of-the-art party. I don't know, I'm sorry if you didn't have someone before, but I'm saying that again doesn't justify anyone if he could do something then and he didn't. And one more thing, I never mention the SAA myself again, and I know and I believe that before us there were people who certainly wanted to do well and did the best they knew, not everyone, but one number certainly did. But don't even ask that question to us who aren't responsible for it. You said today, I answered, you got hurt, I got in that part if I said something personal to you I apologize. You're continuing with me now. Is anyone in front of whom I don't know what we're being measured for?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44237	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44238	Is it after years of life? Is she interning after years? Do you have academic education? What do we measure ourselves by, and does that even matter to the Serbian MPs and to the public?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44239	Time. Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44240	You keep talking about the detail part. We will discuss this at the session in the context of the amendment debate. I am ready and now to tell you, and don't doubt that the work of this law has been done by expert experts, lawyers. Do not doubt that we will answer all of your questions, whether it is in accordance with the law, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, very detailed and comprehensively answered. I'm sorry it's running out of time or I'd do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44241	Thank you. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica anymore. This controversy doesn't lead to anything, and you can't, and I let you, and when I let you and Madam Minister speak directly to you, but you, as MPs, as members of the Government, cannot address the Rules of Procedure directly in the area. I must give my word to Mr. Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44242	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, since my esteemed colleague of the previous SDS spoke more about protection, I apologize for the agricultural land, I will focus on the Land Protection Act and today here, let me say, take the time to say what the facts are. No, we didn't. We didn't get along very often. Very often there have been different tones, but I guess the congregation is exactly where we face our opinions, perhaps sometimes in a slightly stronger way. But it seems to me that this law gives hope that there may really be a systemic concern for natural resources and environmental protection. This Law on the Protection of Land is relatively good and we will probably support it as a parliamentary group, and so will I as a representative of the U.S. For the first time, one natural resource is really treated as a treasure and a national treasure, and I am in these four years or three and a half years as an MP, several times talking about that natural resource being the most important status of a raw mineral, natural, or mineral wealth, and that in this way we must treat the environment in which we work and from whom we live. The Law on the Protection of Land resembles one EU law, has a beginning, environment and end. I often said that some previous laws did not have them. It contains basic provisions of preventive measures of protection, land protection, land quality monitoring, information access principle, land protection financing, supervision and criminal provisions. I hope that this law will really remove the most common causes, as you say, the application of outdated technology, land degradation and land pollution by mining, industry, traffic, agriculture, energy. In these four years, the U.S. has very often talked about all these aspects of pollution and soil and atmosphere and environment, the change in land's purpose and the lack of system monitoring of land quality, I am talking about the previous period, and I hope that this law will remove all this. Today, however, there have also been some foolish commendations. This is the law expected of a government of pro-European, this is the law that is expected and what should be normal. This isn't any space technology that we need to be here right now thrilled with this bill that, I repeat, is good, but it was really for a few moments and inappropriate commendations. And it's my turn to make a couple of bumps. In the story of amendments, we may discuss this in more detail, but they refer to deadlines for the adoption of plans and programmes. It's not good, I repeat, that such a solid law becomes a law with a delayed fact or with a delayed application of measures. To me as a "green MP" the criminal measures seem inconclusive and I think they should be more. That is exactly what a penalty is for someone who would dare to commit an offence or environmental pollution, and such cases are in Serbia and how much. It is good to make plans to protect land of annual protection programmes, monitoring programmes, tendencies, shifts and transfer of power to municipalities can be useful, but should avoid losing and disappearing money from dedicated fees. All these revenues and fees need to be shown in local budgets. But given the local budgets, there are no funds, at least those local budgets I've had my eye on. Unfortunately, the funds don't show up, and we're asking the question here how do they get paid? Do they transfer to local self-government and do local self-governments spend? Someone's got to take care of it. There are several different sets of fees. A fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land 50% of the republic, 50% of the place. Compensation for mineral raw materials 50:50. Contamination fee 60-40. Forest fee 70:30, 30 local self-government. In particular, they lead the fees that all end up in the republican budget, and they are divided 50-50, with them being invested in the water area from which they are harvested. Who is checking whether they are spent on purpose, and we in Serbia very often have problems with the systematic and dedicated use of these sources. At the end of my discussion, the only question is whether you know, I'm sorry if this is too direct, do we know what's going on in the last 40 years with the 40-mile-squarethiest surface layer of humus land in the cities of Lazarec, Obrenovac, Ub and Lajkovac, and where is this humus? Unfortunately, it's at 30, at 40, at 60 meters below today's surface.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44243	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44244	And let me put it this way, it seems like a constructive debate, and I can tell you that everything we're talking about has to do with green jobs, and I can show you this brochure that talks about green jobs and give you just two brief positive...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44245	Mr. Karic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44246	Just two sentences. Just two positive things. In Greece, in Austria you can see jobs can be green and please listen a little more carefully when green talk maybe future laws will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44247	Thank you. Here you are, MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, for this short time we have left, I will say only a few sentences that I would like to direct to the citizens of Serbia, and above all to the agricultural producers. Those who fear them today by this bill have brought Serbian agriculture into the situation it is in today's situation. So in 2001, the Democratic Party passed the Privatisation Act. According to Article 3 of that Act, agricultural land was excluded from the privatisation process because it was declared good of general interest. After that, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, led by Aleksandar Vlahovic, issued an official opinion that agricultural land used by agricultural combinations in social property could be the subject of privatisation and all problems in Serbian agriculture have been moving since 2001. As much as that escalated, here's what I'll do for you on one case only. The Democratic Party, which claims it has never been the government in Serbia and has done the following thing for nothing. So, based on this wrongly interpreted Privatisation Act, the following thing happened in 2003, so when the Democratic Party was in power, in the municipality of Odzak, a businessman bought a farm company called Ratkovo, among other things, and over 2,000 hectares of the most fertile agricultural land, that in 2009, at a time when the Prime Minister was Mirko Cvetkovic, before that, the executive director of the consulting firm CES Mekon, and the director of the Privatisation Agency, and the Deputy Minister for Business and Privatisation, and the Minister of Finance, and finally the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for the Democratic Party not guilty for anything. So, in 2009, this reselling businessman resells this agricultural company to the Grato Group of Osijek. The formal owner is Marko Pipunic, the real owner, ladies and gentlemen MPs and agricultural producers, Branimir Glavas, who was convicted as a war criminal in 2010 for crimes against Serbs in Osijek in 1991. Those who threaten the Serbian government today that they will, together with agricultural producers from Vojvodina, think of Bojan Pajtic, come before the Serbian Parliament and block the work of the Serbian Parliament, here's what they are and how they led the Serbian economy, including the Serbian economy, and how they allegedly fought to protect Serbia's economy from foreign investors, with whom Serbian citizens today fear. So, from 2000 to 2012, look at what the geniuses of the Democratic Party were doing. I'm talking about the external trade relationship between Serbia and Croatia. Croatia invested 658m euros in Serbia, Serbia invested 40m euros in Croatia at the time. In that period, 195 Croatian companies were operating in Serbia and only 12 Serbian companies in Croatia. Then you got a devastating balance. So today, the Atlantic Group, owned by Emil Tedevski, is famous Serbian agricultural brands such as Grand Coffee, Bonito Coffee, banana, figs, chocolate "Best Desires", chocolate "Switt", napolitanka "Fazon", "Prima sticks", "Ktark napolitanka", "Bakina secret", mineral water "Karajordje". Imagine what a nonsens. It is now owned by Croatian companies, those who threaten to bring tractors to the Serbian Parliament, because they allegedly protect a small agricultural producer from foreign investors. Further, "Agrokor", Ivica Todorovic, great friend of Miroslav Miskovic and Bojan Pajtic, you will see later and how, owned by Agrokor, famous Serbian agricultural brands, "Frikum Ice cream", "Fricum Frozen Program", "Diamant", "Diamant Margarin", margarine "Good Morning", "Diamant Mayonez", Multivita "Nivela", Ivan Ergović, Neksegroup, also Croatian investor, large friend DS, bought IGM Stražilovo in Sremski Karlovci, "Polet" IGK, "Polet" ceramics, Factory, i.e. Fabriku Giga in Novi Bece, "Jelen do", Gyps factory near Požega, "Nekse concrete" in Novi Sada, etc. During that time, "Crocija Insurance" bought "Milenium Insurance", "Dukat", Ivica Todorovic bought "Somboled", a pastor group, also a Croatian tycoon, bought Belgrade's "Gasop" and "Firesprem" and "M profile" by Ivan Ergovic bought the production of unmade textiles "Intex". Now those who did all this will protect a small farmer in Serbia. Here today, a question has been raised by the DS in various aggregate states – why has none of the SNS representatives visited the couples who allegedly strike in Vojvodina? Here, as vice president of the SNS parliamentary group, I say that's not true. The two were visited by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijan Risticevic. What did he find there? When it came to tractors, which are not tractors, as Borislav Stefanovic said the time of 200 euros, these are the most modern tractors that cost 100, 150, 200,000 euros. When he came to these people by the tractor and asked them – people, why do you strike, are these your tractors, which makes you unhappy? They said -- they're not our tractors, we're just working with people who have these tractors. And why are you here? Well, because we've been paid for burgers and we've been given 1,000 dinars of diaries. It's the truth about the strike in Vojvodina. Who's behind that strike? The Democratic Party and Bojan Pajtic. Why? Well, the election time has come, the time has come for the bills to be deposited to the citizens of Vojvodina and to the citizens of Serbia, and now let's catch up with how the alleged evil and corrupt government of Alexander Vukic wants our duke country to sell to foreigners. This is what Bojan Pajtic was doing in 2011, Madam Minister, the Vojvodina Development Fund and the Serbian Development Fund formed the so-called "Pajtic". "Tesla" savings bank in Zagreb in a magical way. The Vojvodina Development Fund is registered to own 75% of the bank's "Tesla" actions in Zagreb. The bank aimed, which has never been achieved, to help rebuild rural areas in Croatia from which Serbs were expelled in the 1995 Crime Action Storm. But what happened? Instead of helping Serbs who stayed in Croatia and helping Serbs return to their centuries-old hearth, what did Bojan Pajtic do? Through Tesla, the bank gave credit to Ivica Todorovic to buy companies in Serbia, and thus Ivica Todorovic, his company Agrokor, bought "Frikom", bought "Somboled", bought "Diamant", bought fields, etc. According to the data we have, which the DS also knows, Ivica Todorovic has given him 60m euros in secret DS accounts for the service done by Bojan Pajtic and DS for the 2012 elections and should be known by Serbian duchy peasants. So don't let those who have ruined Serbian agriculture, those who have taken your fields, those who brought you Tedeschi, Todorovic, Ergovic, Branimir Glavas, etc., don't let them be your ringleaders, don't let anyone know which way to cheat you to keep your chairs. So, the robbery of Serbian agriculture took place in 2001 and 2003, between 2008 and 2012. Not to mention that Mirko Cvetkovic is not guilty of anything. The man was the executive director of the consulting firm CES Mekon. People, here's the information, "CES Mekon" took part in providing so-called "CES Mekon". consulting services in the process of quick auction privatisation in the privatisation of "Telecoma Serbia", "Knjiz Milos", "Frikom", "Draj", "Somboled", Pira "Bellarevo", "Shabac", bought by Miroslav Bogicevic, see wonders, "Serbian", "Tradial", "Belgrade film", "Pančevo", "Danubius" Novi Sad, and how much money is washed for the DS account is only one piece of information. Under a contract to provide consulting services, concluded by one of the DS governments, 38 people from one side of the consulting company for 10 to 50 working days, and this is a big question whether they worked so hard, they charged on the basis of diaries, respected Serbian farmers, 1,125,000 euros. If Bojan Pajtic, Mirko Cvetkovic will defend you, he better not defend you and have nothing to defend you from. With this law, your property will be absolutely protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44249	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44250	You will be able to continue working, to improve your agricultural production, to stay in the country, to feed yourself and your family from agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44251	I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from place: Replica and Rules of Procedure. You have the right to a replica. You can't do each other. You can only do one thing or the other. You want to go to the Rules of Procedure or the replica? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44252	In the framework of the replica, I will only tell you that you had no right to give Mr Martinovic, who was registered in the e-parliament as supporting the government's proposal, a word after the MPs who were unspecified, because of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure forbids you to do such a thing. But here's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44253	Miss Jerkov, you're partly right. They asked MPs who had an obligation to call them early. Mr. Martinovic, who was in no hurry, left me at the end, but if you think it's my great sin, it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44254	This way we can all beg when it suits us to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44255	I've worked today and your MPs. Would you like me to list the MPs I replaced from your MP group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44256	I don't care. I don't think we've changed anyone, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44257	If you think I didn't, even Mr. Bozovic, not to say now who I am, not only at this session, but also at earlier sessions, but if you think it's a great sin, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44258	I don't insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44259	Did Mr. Martinovic speak five minutes sooner or later, I think it's totally irrelevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44260	I picked up the line. So, Mr. Martinovic thinks he knows what happens every time someone in this room accuses him of being a thief, that he was laundering money, that he was a criminal, that he was stealing, etc. He'll get a chance to make all these allegations, as before, explain in court. Every time he says he's a criminal like that, he'll have a chance to prove it in court. I think it's the fifth or sixth lawsuit for this MP for identical reasons. Any authority that has been accusing someone for four years of being a criminal or incapacitating him or doing it out of purely marketing needs and knows he's not telling the truth when he's saying it. Mr. Martinovic has to explain to us how it is a criminal Ivica Todorovic when investing in Serbia during the DS and foreign tycoon, Croatian tycoon, etc., and when buying all the retailes in the Republic of Serbia from "Roda", "Ideje", "Merkatora", etc., then is a desirable investor. Ivica Todorovic cannot sometimes be a Croatian tycoon and sometimes be a desirable investor. A little must be defined in which way. No one threatens to come to tractors before the government of the Republic of Serbia. Farmers and duke couple are the only category in this country that is forbidden to come to Belgrade to protest. What they're going to do is, since the minister who boasts about having a constructive dialogue with everyone here has failed to explain to them how good this bill is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44261	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44262	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not afraid of the charges of Bojan Pitiæ and DS. Your esteemed colleague, Gordana Komic, while she was vice president of the Assembly and while she had the opportunity to punish me in the period between 2008 and 2012, with her brother, one 3,500 euros, so I'm used to DS dragging my hand into my pocket. What's more important is that the DS has shown all the hypocrisy it normally has in unlimited quantities. When Ivica Todorovic, Emil Tedeski, Ivan Ergovic, Branimir Glavas bought the country through Vojvodina, it was European, it was in the spirit of good neighbourly relations, and now suddenly the problem of foreign investment in Serbian agriculture. I ask you – how did it not bother you in 2001, how did it not bother you in 2003, how did it not bother you in 2009? How come foreign investments in Serbian agriculture bother you in 2015, right in the year when you're not in power? Then it's a convenient opportunity for you to scare Serbian farmers that the Serbian government is supposed to kidnap the country and give it to a stranger, and it doesn't say it anywhere in the law. It is not true that Bojan Pajtic did not announce he would come with tractors outside the Serbian Parliament. I don't know if he knows or doesn't know how to drive a tractor, but today, for your information, you can check it out on the Internet, hold a meeting with the alleged 17, whether various associations of couples from Vojvodina and say that in two days' time he will come before the Serbian Parliament and block the work of the Serbian Parliament, imagine, this is the force, Bojan Pajtic has 5% of the votes, and urged the President of the Republic not to sign this law at all because, in his opinion, he is against it. Therefore, consult your president on what he does and what he does at work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44263	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44264	Thank you. When someone tries to be credible, so use a sentence – while you were Vice-President of the Assembly, I sit alive in the office of Vice-President of the Assembly and now, with the fact that additional credibility is supported by the ability to invent an entire coup, all other credibility has very lax ground. For 2,500 euros for which the MP, as a member of the SRS parliamentary group, was destroying inventory, preventing MP Tomislav Nikolic from speaking, preventing MPs from participating in Serbia from having their parliamentary rights, preventing the work of the National Assembly and trying to prevent, partially and successfully, the arrival of any foreign country representatives twice to turn to the National Assembly until this breach of order was such that, with my great regret, he had to be punished by disfellowshipping the session. If there is a moment I am not proud of or least proud of, then it is an exclusion from the session of members of the SRS parliamentary group, but it is in that theory – what measures, such and answers. Is it a folk MP who warns everyone else about what they have forgotten, and he does not remember what he's saying, considering it a policy, addressed the MP group Forward Serbia, there's nothing I can do about it. I'm sorry about the replica. I really didn't want this replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44265	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. No matter what you say, I am proud, you who have established a rule in the National Assembly and signed consent to my resolution, to that. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44266	In 2014, the company "Bačka" Sivac, which was sold to one of the business partners in the United Arab Emirates, received some of the Urgenships from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia 878m dinars as a credit for the purchase of its own actions and for sowing. The guarantee for the realisation of this loan is the Republic of Serbia, i.e. it can easily happen to us that, as yesterday in the case of "Serbiagas", one day you bring here the law to turn into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia the debt of your friends' companies that received the loan for the purchase of their own shares. So don't tell us about favouring foreign investors, because first it's not true. Second of all, even if it's true, why are you doing the same thing? Why are you doing this worse? And why are you here today offering legislation and calling on MPs to support together with you a law that we do not know about, without the criteria of defining the law, only on the basis of a business plan, will give 30% of the agricultural land to some legal persons, which we do not know about, who they are, or which commission they will give, or how they will give, or whether they are even investments? I'm asking you again, if it's about investment, why is there no criterion here to hire so many people per hectare, to invest so much and so much money?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44267	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44268	How do we even know that these are investments, when we don't know, even which commission will decide, let alone on what criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44269	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. ) Since on the lists of parliamentary groups... (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. ) You do not have the right to reply to Mr Martinovic, both Mrs Comic and Ms Jerkov have avoided mentioning your name and last name or SNS. So you don't have what basis, you only have on the basis of... (Alexander Martinović, from the city: It is mentioned to the party. They mentioned it? No, the SNS wasn't mentioned. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: The former party is mentioned, the SRS. I can't recognize you there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Are you going to be Mr. Martinovic or Mr. Risticevic? Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to see my colleague's business plan, not only Ivica Todorovic, but my fellow winemaker, who won at least 30 years for 60 euros a hectare, on Frust Gora, on the most exclusive part near the Danube, 52 acres in lease, in a way that he leased land in November 2007, and allegedly planted vineyards in the spring of 2007 and thus made spring since November. A variety of miracles could have happened back then. I don't know what Mr. Martinovic did in the last session, but I don't think he did anywhere near what I did today and I'm glad that when some other people were running power, when some other presidency didn't reflect on the budget and the pocket of the MP who came to me in a way that we weren't exchanging opinions, he tried to exchange fire, and I'm not here to exchange fire, but to exchange opinions. I want to say that farmers have no reason for any fear and only agricultural land sold will be able to sell to small farmers and to no one else. As far as warlords are concerned, they also have no reason to fear, they can even get land under more favourable conditions, buy some cattle, and use the right to deal with livestock in a more favourable way than so far and in such a way that we lose what we want to achieve by this law. We want to achieve that we did last year, and we passed by Karajordje, Serbia has embossed the land of plums, fields and exports of pigs, so last year we imported 348 thousand tolls and 18,000 tons of meat that change 360 new passenger ships, so a total of 700-800 thousand tolls we imported more into meat and live pigs than we exported. It's for an agrarian country like Serbia's shame. If we can't get people to grow cattle on their property, even if we can on that country's agricultural land, try to make it easier to turn part of the warlords under easier conditions into cattle farmers and make extra income. In that year we imported 700,000 pigs, this year we exported only 370 tons more beef than we imported. Those are the reasons for improving this law. I want them to deal with livestock, as I am as a warlord, to change my performance for the reason that we exported corn three and a half million tons, hundreds of thousands of tons of various products and soy beef flour, which gives a total balance of one million tons of meat we could produce by using or one billion pounds, which in a living scale is worth two billion dollars, processed not in the final phase, worth at least four billion. For the corn we exported, we got a total of $800 million, a difference of three billion, and two hundred million went to other farmers, other people's cattlemen, other people's slaughterhouses. With the help of that famous SAA that allowed liberalisation too soon and allowed the purchase of land, agriculture was simply wiped out, meat of suspicious quality was imported with the desire to turn Serbia into a cafeteria and instead of filling farms, downhills, slaughterhouses, we filled oncology and had increased health costs. These are the reasons why we want farmers with the right of the lease, and on the 30%, the government has assured me that the amendment will be adopted, has the right to more legal persons, adopts a new Cooperative Act so that new cooperatives can acquire land that has been squandered during the rule of the former regime, the state has a way to grant them the right of championships of those up to 30% so that they themselves as cooperatives can participate, use the IPA funds of the fund, and in such a way live cooperative, to deal with investments, to process, to employ themselves, to employ the village themselves, to make the village live, that the profits that are waste from agriculture, to the country, not yachts, Maldive etc. These are the reasons why we have approached changes and amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land. There were no other hidden intentions the government had. We think there's room for everything. We think it's worth it. I don't want to share fire with political insolents. I think we should come out of this unitedly, to vote for common solutions, to enlarge this law with amendments. Many of the opposition's solution, even the province's amendments, have been included in amendments that are acceptable in such a way as to make a better law so unique with our faith that we give ourselves the sense that the united finally put this country on our feet, that we all get better, that we all get united. So united that we will not be used against each other, if the opposite side, our political insolents want it, I remain for co-operation, and my dear farmers, if you believe that tomorrow those who robbed you will take you away, you are a terrible cheater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44271	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44272	I don't want to reopen the debate on the issues we've talked about today, but I just want to say at the very end of today's session, there's still something that's not true. Perhaps we could say again it's not nice to change the thesis, it's not nice to tell the truth, but there's gonna be an opportunity to talk about the amendments once again that it's not true that something is going to be untransparent, that it's not true that we're going to give the country because some of our friends are interested in this country, that it's not true that Al Rabapeb is the company that we once again gave something to, that it's a company that is part of the company that participates with its capital, the other part of us as a state of Serbia are participants and that I'm simply not developing this topic now, there's going to be an opportunity the day after the amendments or when they are, to give detailed answers to these questions. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate today. I think it's extremely good that in this number they've talked about and talked about the laws, because they've certainly helped us to show these laws to the public in the best possible way. I think that today we have received the support of the vast majority of MPs to work on that state agricultural land as well as the general interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is being used significantly more, significantly better, in the interest of agriculture, in the interests of our farmers and all citizens. The current situation is inadmissible. It is unacceptable to process only one small part, 30% of the land available, or officially leased. It is also unacceptable that the other part that we do not treat as officially leased, that the other small part is used in an illegal way, that individuals benefit from avoiding fees for years. It is unacceptable that the same ones always count on them to be those winners in the tender and that they will always just get to rent state land, based on their convictions and convictions to invest in their agricultural production. We're really determined. We've put a lot of work into it, a lot of effort. We've been very helpful by our farmers. They worked with us. They told us from the field what the situation was, and together with them, we were able to really look at extreme problems. We won't allow any more corruption. We won't allow local self-government to be unsupervised. We will not allow the authorities to be in contact with the powerful. We will not allow those small, medium-sized farmers to either not have the opportunity to participate in the competition or if they also participate in obtaining some land of dubious quality, or a lower quality of land, because it is the best that has already gone. So we're going to increase the area that's been processed. Anything that can be processed will be leased. What's poorer, we'll give the farmers free of charge. That's what we said today, zero dinars, the initial price, and we know that they can also from that lower-quality land when they invest certain assets, they make land from which many agricultural products can be produced. Secondly, it is true that we will offer land to rent, but because we have a lot already unprocessed and because we want to help the small farmer and Serbian agriculture again because we have to restore both the processing capacities and the dairy and the refrigerators and the fruit processing facilities into juices, etc., all that has been created for decades, for generations, which is gone, we need to slowly raise and no small farmers will be threatened. On the contrary, we want to help them by having a placement for our products, by being able to provide cooperation and cooperation. That our farmers are first of all, and our farmers are small, those who have 20, 30 hectares, and 97% of them are in Serbia, that they are telling us in the first place, and what we have offered, and that I see that they have come across approval. We offered them some of the state's wealth to buy, to strengthen. It means they're more economically ready. Someone was talking here today about how much it cost. It's true, it's expensive land, it's more expensive somewhere, it's cheaper but not all of our farmers are now ready to buy 20 acres where the highest price is. In Serbia, prices are moving in the big diapazon. Farmers are not all interested in 20 hectares, some will buy five acres, and some will buy seven, and in another year they will buy maybe another five or seven acres, regardless. I say, this is indeed the sincere intention of this government and this ministry to help a Serbian farmer. It is true that the initiative came from them. Also, when it comes to renting, someone says, we've now come up with a lease but that's not true, I've been showing data today, or documentation where we can clearly see who first initiated this law for 30 years, these are our cattlemen. You know that we all agree that there is no difference between us when talking about which branch of agriculture should be the most supported. Of course, they're all important to us. We care about both warfare and fruit production, but cattle farming is what is the generator of the development of the entire agriculture that has indeed been threatened in Serbia, and now we have managed to recover it a little bit. We simply cannot question what we did in the previous period. I mean, if someone didn't get it wrong, we have a small share of those larger landowners, about 2%, 2.3% are big possessions, those who have more than 30 acres. Some have 100 acres, some 150 acres, etc. They're big for our terms, but I say, say, in the Netherlands, they're not big. And, if someone doesn't get it wrong, we don't give up on them, we also need them, they're important to us, but they're the ones who can certainly be the first to apply for European funds. They're the ones who can participate in the championship rights contests and they're all important and they're all important. I just want to thank you all once again that I realized today that you understood what the government wants and what we want through this law. And, so it doesn't stay that I answered everyone, and I didn't respond to the Greens, and I want to thank them for this second law that somehow stayed in the shadow of this first one, paying attention. Simply, it means your praise, in terms of the ministry's readiness and intention to take care of the environment equally well and quality. Environmental protection, ecology, is important and we have worked in this area and in this segment. This law is one in a series of laws we've prepared, some we've defended. I thank you, and these green jobs, these are those jobs that interest our sector. I must commend myself with the results achieved in the area of climate change, we have indeed received all the praises, both from the Framework Convention and from the European Commission delegation, so that we work as simply as possible. Climate change, green economy, the fight to preserve the environment, it's all in some way, one continent and I thank you for your support and, of course, we expect all of you MPs to discuss the amendments. I've heard that there are a lot of amendments, and that's what makes me happy, because it's another opportunity for us to talk and to simply discuss all these doubts that have been heard today in this amendment debate and to remove, so that the amendments you've sent us will also be very carefully considered and in any case, all that is in the spirit of the law, which we consider to be constructive suggestions and remarks and we will accept. In doing so, as we have not done before, we will not make a difference in the future between the opposition amendment, position or party, not to say the Socialist Party or the SNS. Thanks again to everyone and simply, I'll see you very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-22-0.u44273	Thank you, Madam Minister. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search. I'm asking you to wait a little longer, we have another point. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 72 and 73 of the agenda. We move to item 74 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Please, MP groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for the word. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposal's representative, MP Natasa Vukkovic, president of the DS Parliamentary Group, want a word? (No) Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since we do not have a list of speakers, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. I thank the People's Messengers for their participation in today's session. Continuing tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., in particular. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 115 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that Members Borislav Kovacevic and Dragan Sutanovac are today prevented from attending. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 54th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to Taxes Laws NOT used, COUNTRY AND VEHICLE OF GOODS. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes,) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
