ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I shall present in short lines what is the essence of the proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. In fact, MP Vladimir Orlic submitted a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The Law on Higher Education, and in this proposal, Mr Orlic pointed out that there is a uncertainty that arises in the application of that member of the law in the sense that this provision should be interpreted so that the same person in the same higher education institution can be appointed as a body of operation no more than twice or twice. The question was whether the changes were referred to as higher education institutions, i.e. a change in the name or last name of persons already elected for the organ of the higher education institution, which has enabled that person to be elected to that higher education institution more than twice, then whether the adoption of a new law, amendments and additions to the applicable law affect the calculation of the number of mandates for a person who has been elected twice for the authority of the higher education institution, since the application of the Law on Higher Education has shown that the same person in the same higher education institution is elected on three, and in some situations more than three times on the same function, i.e. at the post of the management body of the higher education institution. To make it clearer, when we say a management body, we mean college deans and university rectors. According to the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation in order to ensure the availability of the rector’s public function, i.e. the dean, i.e. the director of a higher education institution, the limitation of the number of mandates, the prevention of the abuse of that function, as well as the prevention of corruption, which is the purpose of the provision of Article 54(1) of the law should be understood so that the same person in a higher education institution can be appointed as a management body no later than twice during the working century, regardless of whether the name of the institution, name or last name of the person acting as a management body has been changed, as long as the law prescribes this restriction. In order to understand that provision of the Law on Higher Education, it should be borne in mind that the limitation of the number of mandates for dean colleges, i.e. the Rectors of the University, was introduced into the system of higher education of the Republic of Serbia by the 2002 Higher Education Act, and this limitation of the number of mandates was adopted in an appropriate manner also in the applicable Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005 with subsequent amendments and additions, as one permanent definition and legislator of the law, i.e. Government of the Republic of Serbia, and legislator, i.e. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the role of the management body in the system of higher education of the Republic of Serbia. The limitation of the number of mandates should ensure that the quality of work of a higher education institution is raised, to reduce the possibility of corruption and to provide greater opportunity for the availability of a public function by a management body, i.e. Dean of the university, or rector of the university. Article 107(1), point 3a. The law on higher education is prescribed as a violation of fines by a higher education institution if it chooses a management body against the provisions of this law, in particular, against the provisions of Article 54. Article 1 The law on higher education. On the basis of the proposal for the authentic interpretation of MP Vladimir Orlic, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has taken the next position – that the provision of Article 54(1) The law on higher education should be understood, i.e. that the person chosen as the management body of a higher education institution, under this law, can only be re-elected as a management body of the same higher education institution, i.e. the essence of this authentic interpretation, no more than twice in the course of the working century, whether the next or second term is consecutive, or between two mandates, as well as whether there has been a change in the name and last name of the person who has performed or still performs the function of the management authority or if the name of the higher education institution itself has been changed, or if the amendment and addition of the Higher Education Act does not relate to the total number of mandates of the establishment body within the meaning of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, and I end it, took the view that, in accordance with Article 54(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 54(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on higher education, there is no basis for the same person to be elected more than twice for the management body of a higher school institution. I repeat, it is the deans of the university, i.e. the directors of the university, or the higher schools of vocational studies, that is, the rectors of the university. Therefore, the essence of the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The law on higher education is that one person can be selected twice in the course of his working life to serve as a management body in a particular university, a higher school of vocational studies, or university. And I suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make this proposal an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1). The law on higher education accepts. I thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28460	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28461	Dear Mr Becic, colleagues and fellow MPs, here, for the second time in a relatively short time, we have a request from the MPs to interpret some of the provisions of the education law. For the first time, it was a membership in the National Educational Council where there was a dilemma, whether university professors could be proposed by associations, physicists, mathematicians, etc. There we made the right decision to interpret, although for this there was no need for a simple reason why the Ministry could have very easily solved it. Now we have something even more important to me, it is a situation where, as my esteemed colleague Atlagic can say – deans, rectors, school directors have become masters of life and death in this period. I would say that many people have abused the law and implemented at these functions, not just two mandates, as far as the law allows them, but used the opportunity to use every change in the law, every hole, possibly in the law to extend their rule on these high school conditions, at least for one more term of office, and we also have cases that are seen from this Committee's argument that some deans have been so reckless, that they have changed names, an example, or a Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac where the name of the university is changed, it is now the Faculty of Technical Sciences or something like that. So, for one more term of office or more college-led mandates, people haven't gone too far from changing college names. But that's part of the story. There are major problems, there are great dangers of corruption, candidates of questionable moral and professional qualities are located at the functions of deans, directors, high schools, rectors. But the other side of the medal, Mr. Martinovic, seemed to mention it, but it clearly states in the explanation that the Law on Higher Education, the law, I repeat, which is in force, Article 107(1) of the regulation that the third term of office is at any time with a break, without a break, with a change of law, a violation punishable by a higher school institution for a certain fine. In other words, we have a situation that the incompetent Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Minister Verbic does not do their job and then remains with the people of the university of higher schools that through us MPs, I also have certain requirements with several colleges in Nis and Belgrade, trying to correct what the ministry has not done. So, it's all clear here that reports on the selection of the ministry, the inspection service are being delivered, and eventually the minister can do it. They see that the law has been broken and sanctioned by those institutions. We'll soon have another request. I mean, lately, but it's connected to this, so as many mandates as possible at the head of the facility, even when people come before retirement, when they get a condition for retirement. So, let's say this year is 65 years old, by October 1st, but another term in the post would like to spend, they're being elected, here's May's the current month elected to colleges, vice presidents at universities. People who retire legally get a third, fourth, fifth term, which is inadmissible, but that's connected to this, so as many mandates as possible. Is it okay if someone who is entitled to an extension from the university of three years, whether it is suddenly given or given a year by year, is it okay if someone who, in the middle of his term, practically stops working because of his retirement to be elected to the office of dean, director or rector? Then that's what people do in their colleges, lobbying, blackmail, corruption, and in an illegal way, extend their university, university or high school work for another two years. So there's a lot of problems here in law enforcement. This is not the only thing and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the minister is absolutely doing nothing about it. This seems to me in some way like colleges, high schools, universities, more specifically individuals who have a problem with such a violation of the law are asking the Assembly for authentic interpretation because the bill promoter, the Ministry, of course, the Government adopted it, did not know what it wanted to achieve by that law. The legislative authority is required to interpret what the ministry was going to say. This is absolutely unacceptable, and if this practice continues, we will have the next request as soon as possible whether someone elected to the Dean of one of the colleges in Nis or Belgrade, and after this law meets the conditions for retirement this year or next can be found in that function, regardless of what these people who have been using and this last opportunity have been at those functions for two, three or more times at their universities or universities. I'm taking the opportunity to thank my colleague Orlic, who made a good proposal. We've been on the board and on the sidelines of these meetings several times and talked about deviations in the field of education. Especially in the area of higher education, and we agreed that this was one of the bigger problems. So I'm taking the opportunity to thank him for putting this proposal in a good way. Of course, citizens who are interested address the strongest foreigners in the ruling coalition, because it is likely to go beyond that. With all these criticisms at the expense of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and in particular Minister Verbic, on inactivity, on the run from solving problems, I note that our MP group Boris Tadic, SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, supports the bill and we will vote on this proposal in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28462	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS, MP of the people, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28463	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, a respected fellow MP, Orlic, a respected colleague of Martinovic, in any case today, we are discussing a very important issue that has been emerging for a long time in the practical application of the Law on Higher Education and the application of Article 54 of the Law. The importance of this issue, in any case, calls for the attention of all MPs of the people, so I would really ask that when we make a decision on this agenda point, the MPs take part and contribute to their quality discussions, and especially to the approach in solving this problem. I have to start with something that's absolutely undeniable. Given that, in answer to this question, the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave an opinion which in any case represents one of the stops for giving an authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The law on higher education, the SPS parliamentary group supports the opinion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which this authentic interpretation is based in some way. In order to form management and management structures of universities, universities, academics, higher schools, higher schools of vocational studies over a long period of time, there is a dilemma about how many times the body of the operation of these higher education institutions can choose the same function. In our opinion, in the SPS parliamentary group, a clear enough formulation of Article 54(1) of this law, the Law on Higher Education, is given in the law, and that the body of employment is elected for three years, with the possibility of another re-election. The term – re-election itself, should not cause doubt, because it is clear that even in the event that the same person is chosen for the second time, immediately after the end of the term of office where it has already been and where legitimately chosen, it may be re-elected, as well as in the event that there is a time discount between the previous election and the re-election, and even for many years. In any case, it is a matter of re-election, and that term should not cause any dilemma or doubt, but only one re-election. Therefore, I think that the legislator in that direction has standardized the Law on Higher Education, when it comes to this circumstance as it should. Also, doubt and dilemma should not cause that other circumstance, that change calls higher education institutions, regardless of which higher education institution it is, may be a reason to choose more than twice. Absolutely cannot, absolutely legally inadmissible, or legally unacceptable, given that the fact that the change in the name of higher education institutions does not mean and the change in its legal subjectivity. It does not mean changing the structure, does not mean changing the organisation, changing the structure of the body and bodies of the higher education institution, so that this change of the name of the higher education institution could be used only in terms of abuses in terms of the choice of management bodies or management and management rights in the higher education institution. Also, there should be no doubt as to the personal data of a person who is elected to the position of the authority of the higher education institution, as it is more than logical that the same person is involved in the change of names and last names. Has that face changed its status? Did it go from out-of-marriage to marriage? Has he changed his status in any other way regarding his identity when it comes to personal data? Absolutely doesn't mean anything because it's only about the same person, who can't be chosen on that basis more than twice. Of course, only the legislator can norm and systemize how it will come to be possible, which is certainly not the case now, to establish the choice of the managing authority and more than twice. However, these dilemmas, in our opinion in the SPS parliamentary group, were absolutely unnecessary, but they still existed and not only existed, but came out of the borders of these dilemmas, by accessing different interpretations of Article 54(1) for various reasons. The law on higher education, so it happened that the same person was elected and significantly more than one re-election, as prescribed by the Law that we are discussing today. In this respect, interpretations were very broad and were accompanied by circumstances and situations, which were followed by higher education institutions, but also by circumstances and status of persons who applied to the positions of the managing authorities in those institutions. Thus, more than one re-election was used by various facts and circumstances, as I have already mentioned - a change called higher education institutions, then a change in the names and last names of persons who compete or change in the Law that regulates the matter of higher education. Therefore, we in the SPS parliamentary group insist on a legislative process in which laws are passed that are, above all, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, respecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, and then the rights and freedoms established, of course, by international declarations and conventions, and that these laws must contain fully clear unequivocal norms in order to avoid different interpretations in practice. Allegedly, this and this interpretation of Article 54(1). The law on higher education should in no way affect the autonomy of universities, colleges, academys, higher schools or higher schools of vocational studies. We in the SPS parliamentary group respect the autonomy of universities and higher education institutions, as a universal principle and the principle on which the formation of higher education institutions in the world rests. Respect and affirmation of this principle and the principles of autonomy exist, regardless of the various forms of autonomy of higher education institutions in the world. Comparative analysis of the autonomy of universities, colleges, academias, everywhere in the world concludes that this autonomy is not in the same way and is therefore not in the same way and legally designed. In some countries autonomy applies only to educational, i.e. study programmes, but not to management rights that occur with the mandatory participation of states. In some countries, the full financial operations of higher education institutions have been removed from the autonomous functioning of these institutions and given into the hands of the state apparatus. Of course, all of these differences are present from continent to continent, from state to state and from the way high school institutions are arranged, by putting education on the principles and principles on which education should rest, but what is important for us as Parliament and for us as MPs, is that we do not in any way show unseriousness in public, we do not give any messages that are consistent with this principle and what is most important, it is the very same interpretation that retains the autonomy of universities and other higher education institutions. Therefore, the interpretation of Article 54(1) also takes place. The Law on Higher Education must be seen in the light of the protection of higher education institutions against violations of other laws, above all, the Anti-Corruption Act, when it comes to conflict of interest, as well as the occurrences of corruptive action, then, as a result of making the wider scope available to the public function of the rector, dean, president, director, etc. Given that this particular interpretation gives a perfectly clear normative scope or normative form, which implies the way in which the managing authority chooses, and thus defining the management rights, we are making one shift in that sense which is precisely this authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The law on higher education is something binding for all higher education institutions in Serbia. Therefore, from here, from this House, from this higher home, a call should be made literally to all higher education institutions in Serbia for their normative acts, in particular their statutes, to comply with this authentic interpretation, so that never again those ways that, most rarely speaking, are on the edge of the law, the selection of the authorities of management and management of higher education institutions, which are undoubtedly controversial, have happened before a single person not three times, not four times, but many more than that was appointed to the place of governing and managing bodies. I, as a People's Messenger, come from Uzic. In Užica there is the Faculty of Teachers, as well as the Higher Business School of Professional Studies, so, two higher education institutions. I am proud to point out that none of these institutions, nor the university, nor the high school, have ever had this kind of choice of their governing and management bodies that we are discussing today, or has it never happened that the same person was elected more than twice as a director, or dean. I am therefore convinced that this will be the course of other higher education institutions, and I express, like all citizens of Užica and all of Western Serbia, especially the Zlatibor County, the belief that after a long, long time and Užice will become a university city, that Užice will receive such a higher education institution that seeks support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will seek the support of the Ministry of Education, because not only have all the conditions met, but there are no doubt all the reasons for the establishment of such a higher education institution, starting with the fact that Užice was one of the major university centres by number of students from 1977 to 1987, when the separation of the departmental, engineering and economic college in which students from Ivanjic to Kolašin studied in Montenegro, to Foca in Republika Srpska, i.e. Bosnian and Herzegovina, when it was over 1,000 years old in the city of the town of Uzdice in the city of the town of Užica in the city of Zagreb. We must not forget that two years ago, the Prime Minister... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please, just come back to the topic a little bit. Of course I'm on the subject. That just then our Prime Minister, our President Ivica Dacic, has set a cornerstone for such a university and what we want, we want to do exactly what we are promoting today and what we point out to be at the newly founded universities, that we have for rectors, deans, directors and presidents the highest quality amongst the most qualified, that they are elected by those who, by law, are, therefore, their colleagues from higher education institutions, but that they never happen, mildly speaking, of the abuses that have happened so far, and we in the SPS parliamentary group are confident that after this authentic interpretation is passed, it will never happen again. I thank and point out that the SPS Group will undoubtedly support this authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The Law on Higher Education, with yet another outstanding gratitude from fellow Orlic and all those who have participated and contributed to the creation, foundation and commitment of such authentic interpretation for all higher education institutions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28464	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28465	Thank you. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Martinovic, as a proponent of this act, or as chairman of the Committee who proposes this to us according to the Rules of Procedure, this is one of those topics where we are being imposed on the dilemmas that we had and when we talked about earlier authentic interpretations of the laws that we have passed, above all I mean the authentic interpretation of the Law on the basis of the education and education systems, when we discussed who are the persons who can propose professional associations in the National Educational Council, or whether they can be professors of the University or whether they must be the only people who are actually employed in primary and secondary education, i.e. teachers in the sense of that word. Every time we talk about authentic interpretation of the law, we impose this dilemma on us whether or not we should decide at all, because these are some things that seem understandable to us here, they seem clear and simply sometimes we don't think there's a need to make authentic interpretations, because when the law looks at it as it really does in its basic form, it seems to be very clear. In accordance with Article 54(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on higher education states that the university's managing body is the head of the university of dean, the Academy of Professional Studies president, high school and high school professional studies director. The body of operations is chosen from the order of teachers of a higher education institution who are in full-time working relationship, and are chosen indefinitely. The body of operations is elected for three years, with the possibility of a re-election. When someone reads the basic provision of basic law like this, we simply ask ourselves why there is even a need for us to bring authentic interpretation of the law and isn't this absolutely clear in itself and where there is even room for someone to interpret this clear provision in a different way? However, reality shows us that this is the case, just as we are with Mr. Martinovic, who can simply be a proponent of such authentic interpretation of the law, discussed whether it was necessary to adopt the authentic interpretation of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, because sometimes it shows that what seems absolutely clear to us does not mean that it is clear to someone else and really some of the provisions of the law stand so that their different interpretation is possible. In our opinion, this isn't one of those provisions of the law, but we can't deny someone the right to do something because we think we're different. The reality obviously disproves us in this, and apparently there are deans who try in different ways and manage to bypass this provision of the law. I think that colleagues from the Education Committee, and especially those colleagues who are in the task force that we have formed, which is being led by Professor Atlagic, who deals exclusively with these performances and complaints that we receive, can testify to how many complaints we receive about the work of different deans. I don't think I'm going to be the only one, I don't even think I'm the first to quote a colleague of Atlagic, who says the Deans have really become masters of life and death in our colleges. Although this seems to be one area governed by a very precise law, it is obvious that in practice there are different interpretations and it is obvious that the only way we can prevent it is to adopt authentic interpretation of the law, just as we did with the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Of course that's not enough, as it turns out when we passed the last authentic interpretation of the law, given that here, I think, there's also a conscious intention to bypass the law in the event of a system of education, I don't think she's aware of the intention. It will be necessary, in addition to that official notice, that the Assembly adopted such and such authentic interpretation, and that means now that, too, to carry out further talks, further consultations because we simply cannot be the Assembly that ignores reality. Just as we cannot be a Assembly that does not accept that there are associations of historians or associations of Serbian chemists who believe that the teacher is also a person employed by a higher education institution, so we cannot even be a Assembly that ignores that some decanters feel that they have the right to run multiple times and be elected to the position of the dean. Of course that's one thing, I'd say, a very lucrative place. A fellow academician Stojadinovic spoke about what are all the possibilities for who the dean is at a university. It is certainly clear that, in addition to having very great formal power, they also have a large amount of informal power, informal powers, and that some of them unfortunately abuse their powers. It's in these complaints, which we get from university professors, that we can see a large number of complaints about the dean's behavior, which, by their influence, try to determine which of the university professors will advance in their careers, who won't, how different programs will be financed in college. It's no secret that these people have their favorites who can do absolutely whatever they want in colleges. Sometimes they get involved in grading students, getting involved in publishing scientific papers, getting involved in all the things they shouldn't. Secondly, these are persons who require extremely high management skills. Certainly not all university professors are inclined to do so, and some would like to be in the places where they decide on such things. This certainly is one field in which at least this authentic interpretation can bring some kind of improvement. One of the perhaps best examples of why we need this authentic interpretation is an example of a dean, a university university in Novi Sad who, for example, went even to the point where he changed the statutes of the university in such a way that he could never be replaced. He took away all the collective organs of all the powers, left himself the only possibility that he could initiate, initiate and implement at the end of his shift, of course without any intention of doing anything like that. It's one of the things that got into the media, caused a lot of media attention. The illegal, therefore, change in the statutes of the university is what the dean tried to do. Afterwards, the dean came into public interest by ousting the best scientist of the University of Novosad from his university. It is Professor Ivana Kovacic, who is one of the most recognized scientists in Europe. She was prevented because of the self-will of the dean, not only to advance in college, but to work at that university at all. Later on, the dean turned out to have even been invalidated from his degree in the Faculty of Engineering that he received in basic studies. The solution was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", that his diploma was advertised from, I apologize only... So, by solving the Faculty of Technical Sciences, on 19 September 2014, an invalid diploma was announced on the completion of basic academic studies at the study programme "Energy and process techniques, thermoenergy machinery", number 012-B-8/M since 18 May 2008, the number from the records, etc. So, it's the dean who's been cancelled from the university where he's a dean. But to make things more interesting, just to talk about the great powers the Deans have and which is why it is necessary in this way to limit their number of mandates, if we cannot limit the other matter, that dean has been declared by the DRI. In fact, it has been established that some of the obviously employees of the university can be in great favor of the deans, that one professor from that university, of 261 working days, spent 222 working days on official trips and that for these purposes he had taken daily notes of 2,136,000 dinars, that 37 million dean of the university had spent on the use of official vehicles, that 843 employees at that university had received a fee of 17 000 dinars, as a jubilee prize, although all the employees of that university had received these awards, that the university had not returned to the budget of 4,810,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28466	Miss Jerkov, same as Mr Jovanovic, are you sure you're on the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28467	I'm pretty sure I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28468	I don't think so. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28469	Mr. Becic, this is about us trying to limit the number of mandates for the deans who abuse the provision of the law they interpret in the way they want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28470	You think it's a theme if you're counting bar bills and everything?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28471	I'm not counting the bar bills, I'm talking about the self-will of the deans who think even the law can interpret what they want, and I'm suggesting why you don't want me to continue this series of abuses of the dean that I'm talking about. I think it's a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28472	Please, for the seriousness of the debate, get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28473	I think the debate is very serious. If you don't think so, then we have quite a problem. The problem is, I'll say, since you don't want to, in that same dean speaking at the SNS rally, which he chose after all these abuses this majority in the Serbian Parliament... Now I come into direct contact with the subject, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28474	You want to dissuade this debate in this way. In order for not every next debater to speak as you do, please return to the subject, otherwise I'm going to have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28475	Here's a direct link. Let's just say, one of the deans who just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28476	There's a lot of DS Deans, if you'd bid now on who's Dean DS, who's the SPS. Please, so some MPs don't list all the abuses of Dean DS to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28477	Please, first of all, don't talk to me, take your word for it if you want to tell me something.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28478	Please, if you don't get back on the subject, I won't let you speak and disprove this important debate for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28479	I'm asking you to take your word for it, if there's anything you'd like to tell me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28480	Thank you. I don't want to replicate with you like this. Mr. Markovic, don't throw it away. Mr. Markovic, I'll give you a warning. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I want to continue. I want my microphone turned on. Do you want to continue, Miss Jerkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28481	I really don't understand your intervention. I think it's coming out of the borders that the Rules of Procedure allows you to do. If you'd like...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28482	You're doing it right now, Miss Jerkov. Please, if you want to talk about authentic interpretation, talk. If you don't want to, if you want to politically...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28483	It's about the next one. What about the deans who have already broken this rule so they can be elected twice? These are people who, in amazing ways, have been told by some speakers, found the opportunity to bypass the law, whether by changing their personal name, believing that it would become other persons, whether by changing the names of higher education institutions in which the deans are, believing that it would become another higher education facility. Some of these people were elected by this congregation majority to the National Educational Council. Of course, I'm talking about the same man I talked about earlier, so I think that when they're no longer in the places where they find their prey, even if they're loyal to the ones they should be loyal to. This authentic interpretation comes really at a time when the choice of dean is being made in many universities. My question to a proposing representative who chats with his colleagues instead of listening to what the MPs are saying, is – why did this not come before us when we know that Mr. Orlic submitted a proposal to this authentic interpretation quite a few months ago, and did this proposal of authentic interpretation once again mysteriously come to the government until it became a little late for his adoption, as I was saying when I adopted the earlier proposals for authentic interpretation of the law? I believe these documents have nothing to look for in the government of the Republic of Serbia. May is the month in which the deans are elected in many colleges. Then comes the rector's election, and some of the colleges and Belgrade University and the University of Novosad have already chosen new deans. What if one of these people was just in this group that, according to authentic interpretation, was no longer to be chosen and why didn't this come before? If you'd let me finish my presentation the way I started it, instead of taking it out with me in a way that the Rules of Procedure won't allow, I'd have the opportunity to say that I consider this proposal to be an authentic interpretation of the law unfortunately being brought out of personal interest again, directed at individual cases, not taking a lot of care of how it's going to work globally. Do we really need to interpret the words – the body of the business is chosen for three years, with the possibility of a re-election. That would really lead us in some direction that I'm not sure this assembly should work. That would mean that every time someone interprets a different law, according to this they can really interpret it any way they want, the Assembly should bring authentic interpretation of the law. I think I'm saying, other than what needs to be brought, we need to talk to these people, because I'm quite certain that unlike the previous case, the misunderstanding here does not stem from the lack of understanding of the law, but exclusively from the bad intentions of those who want to get around it and I don't think the problem is going to be quite solved, because I'm really convinced that it wasn't any random misunderstanding of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28484	Thank you. Replication of the exhibition, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28485	Sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28486	Just say the basics of the replica, because you think you have the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28487	Because the Serbian Progressive Party is mentioned, as in one extremely negative context. So I am now speaking as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, but as deputy president of the parliamentary group. What Miss Jerkov tried to wrap in a hundred crusts so she didn't know that hairs don't know what it was about, here's what I'm going to say in plain Serbian. The dean of the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad is being targeted. Isn't that right, Miss Jerkov? The man's mortal sin is that you imagine it dared speak at the Serbian Progressive Party rally. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: As dean. Like a dean.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28488	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28489	Mr. Veselinović, what are you laughing at, please tell me the President of the District Government, who is it? Bojan Pajtic. Was the man chosen the other day as an extraordinary law school professor in Novi Sad? Did anyone say one word against that? Is the man president of the Democratic Party? So where are you going to get more cumulation of abuse of functions in one man and no one has said a word against that fact? A man is targeted here, because as professor of the university, as dean of the Faculty of Technical Sciences spoke at a rally by the Serbian Progressive Party. It's on that death list of the Democratic Party, probably under number one. I'd like to remind you, from the DS, from the SDS of what you call yourself, you remember a few years ago, I, out of respect for this lady who is a bard of Serbian acting, will not tell her her name, when at the DS rally she divided Serbian citizens into first-class citizens and second-class citizens and addressed her supporters...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28490	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28491	Wait a minute, Mr. Becic. She spoke to DS supporters, she says – you dear citizens of the front row, and everyone else who doesn't vote for DS, you're some money, you're nobody, you don't understand anything, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28492	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28493	Mr. Becic, let me finish. This is a harsh abuse of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a SNS theme, it's not a Rade Doroslovsky theme. The theme is authentic interpretation. Miss Jerkov is wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28494	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. You can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28495	Just two sentences. As for the time when the proposal for authentic interpretation was delivered, Mr. Orlic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28496	Mr. Martinovic, you do not allow me to lead the Assembly. You can't talk for three minutes. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Miss Jerkov talked for 25 minutes. She didn't talk for 25 minutes, she talked for 13 minutes and talked for three minutes and 40 seconds. So she hasn't spoken in 20 minutes. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can pick up as much as you want by the Rules of Procedure. First, Mr Vladimir Pavicevic has the word by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28497	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I speak, Mr. Martinovic speaks here. For such behaviour, Mr. Becic, Jovan Markovic just received a warning from you. Please apply...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28498	First, he didn't get Mr. Markovic's notice. Don't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28499	Then the threat. I'm not done with the Rules of Procedure. So Article 103 was injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Becic. You hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure for who knows which time, Mr. Becic. By allowing Mr. Martinovic to allow the duration of the replica instead of limiting it to two minutes, he extends to almost three minutes, Mr. Becic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: he should have shot me at you. When it happens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28500	Don't throw it to Mr. Martinovic, please. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: he should have shot me at you. Shoot me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28501	Here goes Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic, I'll talk about authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28502	Mr. Martinovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28503	That's right, Mr. Becic. Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28504	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28505	Thank you, Mr. Becic. What I was about to say, so you took away my word because I've timed out, I respect that, Miss Jerkov has brought forth a series of false things, and yet again, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives allegedly seems to be working slowly, how the National Assembly is working slowly, etc. As chairman of the board, I'd like to say that's not true. On 12 February 2015, Mr Vladimir Orlic submitted a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I submitted this proposal to the Government (Goran Bogdanovic, from the post: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28506	Don't throw it to Mr. Veselinovic. Don't throw it to Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28507	Let them get free, Mr. Becic. They've burned down this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28508	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28509	So, as President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives in the Rules of Procedure, this is what Miss Jerkov missed to say, as did the last time we adopted an authentic interpretation, I was obliged to submit a proposal for authentic interpretation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an opinion. The government gave its opinion on 6 April. Today is May 20th, which the deadlines have been broken and what many months have passed since Vladimir Orlic, as a National MP, submitted a proposal for authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education? So it responded literally spotlessly. If someone thinks the Assembly should deal only with giving authentic interpretations of different laws, it is your right, but the Assembly has other obligations as well. The congregation is doing other jobs, but faster than this, it just couldn't. So, on April 12th, the man submitted a proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28510	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28511	... Here it is on May 15th today we are discussing a proposal for authentic interpretation of higher education, nothing is absolutely controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28512	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, a replica. Here you go. Replication to Mr Martinovic's presentation, as the DS was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28513	It is truly strange, Mr. Bečić, that Mr. Martinovic has been given the opportunity for one replica of the first two minutes and 47 seconds, then two minutes and nine seconds. I think it was an opportunity to warn him. He's not even listed by a member of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28514	Miss Jerkov, you're entitled to a replica, don't spend it in the middle of me. Replicate to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28515	... In the context of my time you have given me the right to reply, I would like to point out that I believe that Mr Martinovic has violated the Rules of Procedure, because he has neither listed a member of the Rules of Procedure to whom he calls nor explained what the injury consists. But let it be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28516	We'll see if it's a stenogram. I know he's invited to article 107, but we'll assure you with a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28517	... Although he formally referred to article 107, apparently it was a replica, it doesn't matter. As part of my right to reply, I only want to say one thing – it is not the sin of Mr. Doroslovakia for speaking at the SNS rally. Mr. Doroslovaki's sin was that he spent 300 million dinars of the Faculty of Technical Sciences that determined the DRI... (Alexander Martinovic from town: Who says so? DS? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28518	Please, Mr. Martinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28519	... This assembly has appointed and chosen the National Educational Council. It is the only problem with Mr. Doroslovakia that it is a man who spent 300 million dinars in the words of DRI, who haunts professors at his university, who has changed the law of the Statute so that it cannot be removed and then elected by the SNS as a member of the National Educational Council, and that is for the man who has been cancelled from the Faculty of Machines in Novi Sad, on whom the solution has been issued in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The only problem with Doroslovakia is that and that will always be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28520	Mr. Martinovic, you are a representative of the promoter and you have unlimited time and can report at any time. Here you go. (Ninoslav Girić from the place: to warn him. Very funny, Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28521	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So, Rade Doroslovsky's guilty because that's what DS thinks. He's an imaginary embezzler who embezzled a lot of money. He imagines I changed the statute of the Faculty of Technical Sciences. If one man can change the statute himself, I beg you, Miss Jerkov, give me one single proof that a man, his name was Rade Doroslovsky or I don't know how, can change the statutes of a higher school institution. That's one thing. Second of all, please don't talk to the DS about embezzlement in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So what happened to you in the Resorial Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, so how much money did anyone know in whose pockets during the time that secretary was Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Petrovic, who was Bojan Pajtic's right hand? Right? How much money has gone from the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development? How much money has gone from some high-tech development fund? The huge money went to companies controlled by DS, where were your people the directors or owners? When money was supposed to come back, I've been here a hundred times already boring myself, then instead of money, you were returning syphons, water hoses, schools and entertainment sites to buy toothbrushes, etc. Is that high-tech, water syphon, hose, toothbrush at the beginning of the 21st century? What are you talking about? (Alexandera Jerkov from the site: Time. ) What is also very important, and what Miss Jerkov failed to say, supervision of the work of higher education institutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28522	I'm sorry, Mr. Martinovic, just a notice to Miss Jerkov, because she's very nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28523	Mrs. Jerkov's time has passed, but no one has informed her about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28524	Mr. Martinovic is a representative of the promoter and has unlimited time. To keep you informed. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28525	Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28526	Don't throw Miss Jerkov away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28527	The Democratic Party's time has long passed, only it seems that no one has informed them of it. The supervision of the work of higher education institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is carried out by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia does not, according to the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and if all this is true what Miss Jerkov, who has just left the hall says, then the question is, wait, what have people in the province's administration been doing, why haven't they checked how colleges operate where the founding rights are being exercised by the AP Vojvodina? What is the responsibility of Minister Verbic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? In nothing, but here by replacing the thesis, sowing lies and untruths and once an eruption of hatred against SNS is trying to baptize what's on the subject of the agenda. The topic of the agenda is whether one man can be elected more than twice for the university dean, or university rector, period. The board said i.e. suggested that he couldn't, and we suggest that the National Assembly accept this authentic interpretation. This is about Radet Doroslovakia, some embezzlements, a rally where man spoke, etc. How many intellectuals and quasi of self-proclaimed experts spoke at DS and said openly – who doesn't vote for DS, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, these are people who shouldn't live in Serbia, they don't bathe regularly, they're stupid, they're not finished schools etc? Shall we talk about it? Do you want me to pull out a dozen lies and nonsense that the DS has been sowing in Serbia since 2000 and all those who have dared to say a single word against the DS? As for the warning you gave me, there is no problem, Mr. Becic, but at the time Mrs. Gordana Komic was chaired by the National Assembly, a single critical word of the opposition could not be heard here. I'm being punished as a member of the People's Parliament, roughly now harshly... (Ninoslav Stojadinovic from the post: Which parties? )......................................................................................................... As an SRS MP, Mr Stojadinovic, I don't know where you were then, you were in the SPO, where you were, I was fined about 3,500 euros. After two seconds of turning on my microphone, I've been getting warnings. I received a warning because I allegedly advertised part of the Rules of Procedure that Gordana Comic cannot be harmed in the opinion. To gain the right to a replica, as is now given to MPs of the opposition and I have no objection, I could dream, Zoran Babic could dream of getting the right to a replica when DS led the National Assembly sessions. So no one here is threatened by the MPs of the former regime. They're the ones who ruined between the other and the higher education system in RS, so now we from the SNS and that part of the system have to rise again and they're the last ones to talk about any embezzlement and malfeasance. They can write volumes and books about how to rob the state, how to rob an autonomous province, how to rob municipalities and cities. If they've been doctored on anything, and if they can hold someone's courses -- rob, steal, destroy, destroy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28528	Thank you, Mr. Martinovich. Head of the SNS parliamentary group. Based on your call, please? (Zoran Babic from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28529	You only warned Mr. Martinovic because he is an authorised representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28530	Mr. Babico, you weren't in the O.R. He received a warning because he spoke for more than three minutes on a replica he received over two minutes and did not want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28531	Then you had to mention some colleagues and colleagues in this room because they talked all the time off the topic of the agenda. And it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. But, well, I don't want to talk about emotions. What I want to talk about is that in one system, one state, if there are double arches and double standards, then there is neither state nor society. Something that applies to the Serbian Progressive Party seems not to apply to the Democratic Party. And I am sorry that the empty hall and empty lines of the Democratic Party make it impossible for dialogue to be conducted, or that dialogue does not suit them. If they're already talking about what the DRI established, would you like to talk about Radoslav Milojčić, the senior official of the Democratic Party, the president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, called Kena, Kenac, or something like that? Such a man, a senior official of DS, according to the DRI, has, based on an investigation that has been conducted, entrusted the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, not once, Mr Becic, not twice, with three budgets of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. There is no street lighting in the Smederjevska Palanca due to the debt for spent electricity. He ruined that city, public enterprises don't work, nothing works, he's under investigation all the time. Do we want to talk about it? Did DS pull him because he's doing criminal activities in a beautiful city in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28532	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28533	Did she withdraw DS Dragan Sutanovac after a criminal report initiated by the Anti-Corruption Agency? So, on the basis of the statement, and on the basis of someone speaking at the SNS rally, he needs to get his head off, and someone who has deeply stuck his fingers and hands in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia directed by the DS, and that rule should be respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28534	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The same DS has owed the municipality's budget of Vrbas a billion and 500 million. The auditor's determined, but what do we do? The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28535	Now you've kind of provoked me to advertise the Rules of Procedure on what you've just said, but I'm still going to advertise Rules of Procedure on Rule 106. The Rules of Procedure and try to influence this debate to return to normal course and discuss the subject of the agenda. Namely, for Mr. Babic, who has now entered the O.R. shouting, according to article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which states: “The speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, ” that I do not read any further and that I do not disagree on styles.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28536	Mr. Veselinović... (Janko Vesenović, from the post: Please allow me to finish. I can't let you because you're not talking, in a way, the truth. Mr. Babic, for the sake of the public, is entitled to a two-minute replica. He can say whatever he wants in the replica, and he doesn't have to talk about the subject. Mr. Veseinovic, Mr. Babic has been granted the right to a replica on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. He can replicate, in this case he's replicated Miss Jerkov and he could say why he thinks he has the right to replication and explain what he thinks, as a representative of the SNS. You just said he was supposed to talk about the subject. Don't say that now either. Secondly, I asked Miss Jerkov not to let the debate go in this direction, to return to the topic. Miss Jerkov didn't want it, and that's why the debate is now going this way. Now I'm taking a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Thank you, Mr. Granny. The same DS has owed the municipality's budget of Vrbas a billion and 500 million. The auditor's determined, but what do we do? The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be back on the subject. We have an authentic interpretation of a member of the Higher Education Act that says the Dean can only be two mandates. I think it's a good solution and the SDP will accept this solution with satisfaction. Why? The Dean of the Higher School is only the first among the equal. His primary task is to organize teaching and scientific work. The dean is not, as some now realize and accept that education is just a profit, that money should be brought in, the dean is a man who has to take care first of all of the fact how to organise a teaching-science process at the university, or a higher education institution he runs. Since we have the highest-quality people in colleges and higher education, I think this will give us the opportunity to have more mobility, to have more people who can express their abilities. That's why this is a good interpretation, and I think the academic public will fully support this interpretation. I'd like to say a few more things. In this congregation, when it comes to higher education, banalizing is often done. In fact, he often wants to put in some words, false and semi-truths, that our higher education is in a very difficult situation, that it is completely politicized and that there is no science, and that diplomas are only sold. That's not true. Those who work at state colleges know very well that people who work at higher education institutions are decent people, scientists who know their jobs, who have reached their diplomas in a way that is the best quality, which is the best. Our higher education in European terms has been at a very high level in the past. We all know that when we went to international conferences, when we were talking to our colleagues. They said exactly that we were really well-educated. There is often talk of a higher education institution called the Faculty of Political Sciences. It's about a facility where it works very much, I mean three-four thousand employees, I don't know the exact number, but I know many, and a very large number of students. It's about one of the best-quality colleges, which is a series of colleges that are really very high-quality students. No one here will say that the university produces, or gives the best IT, to create scientific parks, that we have 2,500 people working on IT, whose exports of software are bigger than the exports of raspberries to Serbia. Let's go to an institution where thousands of people, very high-quality scientists, who know their jobs, let's say that we need such colleges, such institutions we need. We're supposed to be putting money in there. We talk about knowledge, the quality of knowledge, and instead of doing so, we banalise everything, and often all MPs, and positions and opposition, when they talk about higher education, often use words that are not really worth talking to. I speak for all those people who work at colleges, who I know and who I've worked with, who are really very high-quality and who know their jobs. I started with the Faculty of Engineering. It's a whole series of colleges, a whole series of people who work from construction, architecture, to information, engineering, electrical engineering and related occupations. Instead of encouraging it to be our university tomorrow and something that will be the pride of this country, we banalize things, we make false and half-truths. I'll say right away, there were words here about Dean Radet Doroslovakia. I'm not his lawyer, I'm a friend, but I know his scientific success very well, and I know what he did in his life. He completed mathematics, master's degree, doctorate and is very competent and has a very large scientific and professional degree in mathematics. This same man also graduated from the Faculty of Machines very regular and all of this being said, it's only one half-truth where there was one mistake and that man, very competently here I declare, finished the Faculty of Machines. But I'm talking about this piece called the Natural-Mathematics Faculty, which has indeed been extremely completed with great scientific and professional dignity. There was talk here about what was going on. I don't want to get into that stuff. There were speeches about some scientist who...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28540	Please, Mr. Mijatovic, don't be like Miss Jerkov, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28541	I'll be back on the subject very soon, just to finish, since it was about college, and I'm not interested in individuals. I'm interested in the facility, and this facility at the University of Novi Sad is really a very high school. If it's a man's fault, and I'm not going to name him, just because he's a fan or a member of a political party, we can't talk about it here in the assembly. We can only say that at party meetings when we speak politically. This is the Supreme Legislative House, and here we are obliged and obliged to speak the truth and only the truth, not the half-truth, and not to muddle people, not to muddle institutions and entire areas. It's our duty, and that's why the people were us, and that's why we're sitting here. That is why we must affirm everything that is good, whether it belonged to one political option or another political option. It should be affirmed that it brings quality to Serbia, which promotes Serbia in Europe, which is precisely high education and as part of that higher education is the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad. So I ask you, on behalf of all the employees of that university, my colleagues and friends, that we do not speak false and half-truths about institutions or individuals, especially because we do not have the specific data that has been provided here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28542	I thank you, Mr. Miatovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28543	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SNS, I certainly express my support for the proposal to bring authentic interpretation to Article 54(1). The higher education law we're talking about today. I would like to thank my colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs and for the efficient processing of this initiative, but also for more than a high-quality proposal. This is what I join once again, and this time I take the opportunity to do it personally as a signator of the initiative to implement this procedure. So, I thank my colleague from the committee responsible for the fact that the initiative was really processed in a quality way and in time. In that sense, I have to be surprised because today there have been some questions by someone in this room, it doesn't matter who, whether something is done fast or not. So if the one who initiated this procedure had absolutely nothing to do with the dynamics achieved, I don't see what anyone else would complain about on his behalf. But, well, about that then, on the subject of what we heard today. Once again, it is a proposal to adopt authentic interpretations in order to determine black on white whether the authority of the higher education institution has the right to a total of two mandates, as it stands in the law, in Article 54(1), or perhaps otherwise, for which no understanding in practice could be found to the end. What we think we heard from the very beginning in the context of this proposal, but once again – it is thought that in practice it happened, not a small number of times, that the authorities of the higher education institutions are elected in the third, fourth, and even in a number of mandates. The reasons for this and the excuses that were heard were really different, so I'm going to use the term very imaginative. The most common case was that they called in their candidacy to change the law. So, when at least one letter is changed, any part of the law that prescribes this matter, it's said -- yeah, the new law, so we reset the number of mandates and count it over and over again, all over again. Another case most often encountered in practice is the interpretation that the law says – twice the mandate can be tied, or susscessively, so if a break is made, then it can again, which of course does not stand in the law and of course is not the intensity with which this solution is written. There were various other examples from the sphere of what can even be called comical. I think my colleague Jovanovic used the words – legal pregnancies are at stake. To change the name of a higher school institution, so to speak – these are now the mandates of the body of operation at a completely different institution, or change the personal name of a man who is in a position to run for third, fourth or any other time. Certainly, I agree, neither of them means that by changing the name of the new institution, nor the new person. However, this has been done in practice. Prove that's the case. The evidence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is all around us. I will refer to a newspaper inscription from February this year, about precisely from the time this initiative arrived at the National Assembly, where we are talking about this problem, about various cases that meet in practice and where the words of a dean college belonging to Belgrade University are listed as a quote: "No, we think that the one who understands the law is so literally that it is two mandates in total. No, we don't think the Ministry is right when it suggests that it has to be understood, we think it's different. “ Where you can better prove that we have a practical problem, black and white. People claim there's room for creative interpretation and some alternative understanding. Speaking of which, I would refer to the words of the distinguished colleagues who discussed this issue today and certainly thank all those who have expressed their support for the proposal to bring this authentic interpretation in the way proposed by the committee in charge. However, I must make one correction on my part, to intervene, just to prevent us from wronging anyone. I'm specifically referring to the possibility that we might be wrong about the Ministry. So there's no sin of the Ministry in this case. Anything that can be called sin falls solely upon the burden of one who, because of his own interest, has resorted to creative interpretation. The ministry pointed to this problem a month before this newspaper article I was just talking about. In January of the month, the Ministry sent a letter to higher education institutions and said – people, please pay attention, our practice is not good, in the Law is different. Just in response to such an appeal, a memo from the Ministry, we received these words that I mentioned earlier. In addition to them, I quote, says the dean of a university, a serious university at Belgrade University: "No minister is a legal person to interpret the law, it is known who interprets it, I guess this is what the Legislative Committee does at the Assembly and can't suggest to us how we understand it." When someone who's a college dean says this, what's the logical reaction? All right, well, let's let the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who has the authority to give them the authentic interpretation to take away all possible misunderstandings. That's what we, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, are doing right now. So, once again, the problems that are present in practice. So we don't explain what the Ministry wanted or didn't want him to say. We're in law enforcement. This support I present to the proposal, in front of the SNS, is only the sole consequence of the principled attitude, to protect the law, to protect the principle of rule of law, what should be important to all of us. At the risk of using too many hard words, being sacred, if we want to have a seriously arranged system and what it deserves to be called state, to protect the principle, to protect the law and to protect the rule of law. When we talk about it, there's certainly an interest in solving all the problems in practice on one side, so you've already seen how creative interpretations have been in an opportunity to find, what I think Pascal once described as a metaphor - on the other side of the Pyrenees which is common, it's totally unacceptable here. So it's in an orderly system that it can't and it's more than clear. I think we all understand each other about that. Where we run into misunderstandings, that seems to be the problem we're going to have to fight probably for a long time in this room. God knows how long it's gonna be until we can figure it out once, hopefully, the way it's right, and that's to do it again on these issues -- what? It's a cheap day policy, belittled by political insinuators, on issues like this again. Why, for God's sake, for God's sake? So, we can discuss one thing, which is more than clear, that we discuss all day and there is no problem at all, until the word in the O.R. comes to a representative of a certain parliamentary group. Does that tell you anything? Are we making any conclusions? Why do we have such a practice constantly? What on earth happened again today? So it's suggested here, be careful now, that this is a proposal that's being made out of some of the personal interests, that this is a proposal that's directed towards certain individual cases, that there's not too much reason to bring this kind of interpretation at all, etc. In doing so, the one who utters such words is the only one, but beware, the only one in the room today, who has personalized this issue. So while we're dealing with the protection of principles and laws, the only one who brings this down to the level of some personal accounting, that is, the apostrophe of a particular person, is the one who's going to blame us for dealing with individual cases, nots complete. Not to have anything to do with whether this man or that man was involved in a rally or speaking, pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the next fact. We are being burdened here today, with an attempt at a completely personal disqualification, which is an absolutely inappropriate approach, that we are engaged, let me say, in an inappropriate approach because, completely off the table, once in a matter of another case in this National Assembly, imagine, most MPs voted for a particular person. Now I have to remind myself, if they want us to discuss this today or ever, dear colleagues to find a stenogram or to look at the video and to say for themselves whether I, speaking in front of the SNS, said literally: "I do not call for a vote for that person, whatever it is called, or for the other one that was a counter-proposal. I call on the MPs to vote as they themselves think it's right. “ So is it fair, is it correct, is it human to place a burden on us that absolutely does not stand? And does this have anything to do with being correct and honest by those who are obviously only important to get out as best as possible? Maybe this is a question I'm asking myself more now. I don't expect to get proper hearing and understanding from the other side. Furthermore, whether someone has chosen the SNS or the National Assembly, it is already a question of understanding the concept of how this place works. I agree with my esteemed colleague, Mijatovic, that we are chronically suffering from some banalization and stories that are not at all for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but are primarily for party gatherings. I'm afraid we won't be able to make a qualitative step in relation to what was called bad practice in Serbia's political life, as long as there are those who absolutely don't understand that this kind of approach, the chronic need to be accounted for, isn't doing any good, that we won't be a more orderly society, or a more stable system, or we won't be better people. On the contrary, as we constantly have the need to deal with each other, we argue, we transfer something to each other, just to show that, behold, some political power is not good, whether it's a matter of whether it's a question or not. So if we're going to deal with the protection of rights, if we're going to deal with the protection of the law, which is, I remind you, once again, the main interest of us who support the proposal to bring this authentic interpretation and who we've also initiated to find this on the agenda today, we can only act in one way, to treat the law as it deserves, to really treat it as what makes the spirit and mind of a discreet man and the measure of justice and injustice, as Ciceron said. I call on those who probably because of the burden that brings them their own political practice not to refer to the laws as sacred, but to interpret them themselves and apply them creatively to particular interests, whether strictly personal or political, own or party to which they belong, so that we still correct perception, to make a serious relationship, and that, when issues like this are on the agenda today, we reach agreement, to bring this to the end as it is appropriate and ultimately to vote, that it is actually only logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28544	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Stojadinovic, you answered. On what grounds? (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: I would just like a few sentences. I didn't get it. You can't do that, sir, you're the vice president, you know very well the Rules of Procedure, that you don't have a chance, if you don't think anyone understands you. (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: I know the Rules of Procedure, but later it will come... I listened very carefully to Mr. Orlic. He won't let me have anyone's right after that exposure. (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: Good. I appreciate you listening very carefully. Probably when it comes to the ministry... ) The word is, according to reports on the search for acts from the 2nd item of the agenda, MP Marko Atlagic. Let the MP of the people be prepared Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28545	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a matter of higher education. It's a topic about university rectors, college deans and high school directors. Higher education in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen is the order of sectors that have experienced the biggest disturbances in the transition, so the entire educational-experienced system of one European prestigious level has submerged, unfortunately in the last 10 years in the greatest crisis in the entire history of this strategic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, knowledge, education and education of all citizens are the assumptions of democracy, they strengthen it, and ignorance favors dictatorships. That is why many governments in Europe, as well as the whole world, in their programmes give education and education a significant place in selecting individual governments of individual countries. Our Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, gave a significant place to raise and educate in the exhibition he submitted to us to the MPs on 27 April, in the year 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, he has dedicated our Prime Minister four sides of the text in his exposé to this important and strategic action, more than some former prime ministers have devoted to the entire exposés. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 10 years, that is, the former regime of the entire education system has brought into a very difficult situation that characterizes the etatization of the education and education system, the politicization of that same system, the red tape we're talking about today, the dean and rectors, the antipedagogisation that is extremely important, because we have violence and in families, these days we've had so much more, because we've brought up the education system, the commercialization, the sociology, quasi-reforming, the testomania, the inefficient entire system, and, ladies and gentlemen, the bad textbooks in which crime and corruption flourishes. The depth of the depravity of the educational and education system that has brought us, to say the former regime, is looking for mobile and professional teams, both at the Ministry of Education, especially at the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, as well as at colleges, especially at the Departments for Pedagogy, because they are in charge of a basic vision of the education system, which is exactly what our Ministry is doing these days. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, if we don't go this way, there are new wanderings waiting for us, new fallouts, waste of time and chances and new losses on the exam, but this time without correction. As a result, educational workers, deans, rectors, and even school directors, to go to high school, need to be more present in the media, they are today a machequerade and humiliated position in the media, and media ham and celebrations of various ignorants are committing violence over the theatre. The media are deformed, they deformed their function in the cultural and pedagogical field. Our children's and students' health is at the bottom of the media's priorities, and violence and hooliganism are at a higher level. Likewise, the choice of dean and rectors and directors of vocational schools, high schools should be legally changed. Ladies and gentlemen, as MPs, we need to talk about this today, so there would be no interpretation of article 54. The law on higher education. The state's greater influence on the choice of dean must be ensured than has been the case so far. That's what we should do, because some college deans and rectors are often corrupt, really corrupt. This also proves that individuals wanted to pass the third term of office, resulting in the adoption of Article 54’s Law on Higher Education. Even the Senates of individual universities recently made decisions, which seemed shocking amongst not just university professors, but a broad social public. However, I must say that it is not true what my predecessors said from the opposition benches, namely the Ministry of Education, led by Mr Verbic at the height of his mission, so before this interpretation was issued before the elections, he issued an interpretation just as we will today and tomorrow at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we have seen the experiences of the past 10 years of what has happened, I will try to do so with examples and show. If some deans were corrupt, and individuals were corrupt, I would even dare say in the former ministries of education, it also shows the fact that they opened by law, which means past accreditation, believe it or not, these are inspection reports, 100 so-called. I'm a senior student. I'm a senior student. Here, that's why we're talking about two, three, four terms. All former ministers of education, all four educational inspectors, had to, and did not bear responsibility, because of these 104 departments, and for this reason today in this National Assembly, we need to talk about two, three, or four, five mandates. The same deans allowed individual professors to perform at the same time two professions full-time and retired, which was unrecorded in the history of education and teaching ideas, by my estimate about 400, 500 of them. I have such a similar example in my hand, where one institute director was to be elected who was at the same time performing a full-time job in another neighbouring republic. Exactly, Mr. Verbic did not give him consent and he prevented this choice. I could find you a lot of examples of these in the last ten years. There are teachers who were teaching, and the deans allowed them to, rectors, four, five, six, seven and ten colleges, and one on 24, I have papers on 24 colleges. The same one that was conducting 18 cases in the neighbouring country at the Faculty of Political Sciences in two countries. There you go, ladies and gentlemen, which is why this law is important. There was a dean who was a dean for 20 years although all the laws, as counterpart Martinovic said since 2002, and even those before 2002 were limited mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28546	Mr. Atlagic, please don't talk about individual cases. Please, get back to the subject. With all due respect, the same goes for you as for previous speakers. Please come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28547	With all due respect, please, may I say. If you'll allow me to explain, if I don't, I'll interrupt. Mr. Vice President, this is about choosing the dean and rectors, and these are individuals, and it's not a waste to talk about individual cases if it's about the deans and the deformities that are going on. We're just passing an interpretation of the law because of the deformities that are in practice. If you don't think I should, I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28548	Mr. Atlagic, we don't have a choice of individual candidates here and don't talk about individual cases. You can give an example, but don't mention the individual dean cases, because then this doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28549	I was saying that there is one, I'm not individual and I'm not going to talk about names, but I will, that's exactly what the professors of the university and the citizens of Serbia are looking for, and that's what this Assembly is about, and it's on the agenda. So I'm talking about showing up and I wasn't talking about names. So, this authority, let me say and this ministry didn't give one such permission since it was in the neighbouring state. This is an example, and that is why we are just passing an interpretation of this law so that there can be no more than two mandates. As for the dean's term of office and article 54. The Law on Higher Education, there is a matter of gentlemen Members of Parliament, very clear, but the mandate of the Dean and the Rector or the Director of Higher Schools takes three years with the possibility of a reelection and a point. However, even previous laws, I must say, as Mr. Professor pointed out. Martinovic, since 2002, they have codified this matter, but this is important, but it has not respected the law that has been the general characteristics of the last 10 years and that is why Mr. Vice President we have to talk about, because that is why we bring it here. Of course, that they were doing this with knowledge, probably of the former authorities, because it cannot happen that a third term without the Ministry's knowledge is being carried out, because it is an inspection by previous ministers, was an inspection of the previous and principled, which, this minister, Verbic, replaced him to the satisfaction of all educational workers in this country, as well as the citizens of Serbia. According to some, as Dr. Orlic said, and the names of the university or just a letter in the name, so as not to remain dean. That's why we're saying it today. Some names have changed. Just these days, thanks to our minister, we once made it impossible to be a dean for over 20 years, with a choice that ended in one university. So they existed what I said, and the MPs in this House today repeated the masters of the life and death of their professors and students because they did what they wanted. No promotion of professors to more knowledge could have been promoted regardless of the references, without the authority of certain deans, not all, there are honorable and honest ones, but some of us have received these days in the Committee on Education, certain complaints that have in some way shocked us, because it is about the tragedies of certain educators, professors, and their families. Some were putting a promotion on the agenda waiting for three years and four, etc., precisely because they had a third and fourth term, etc. Some professors have lost their jobs, and there are cases like this today, so the interpretation of article 54. The law on higher education and restriction, Mr. Vice President, today's term of office is being watched by all university professors, believe me, because they're very interested in seeing how we're going to make the decision. It's not true what the previous speakers were saying from the opposition benches, our Ministry did extremely well and became to tell the district or the letter where it warned before the election that I couldn't do what I was talking about. Now, you see, this interpretation of the 54th in my opinion has three functions, firstly – raising the quality of the work of higher education institutions, which means that if the two mandates are dean, then they will probably be better advocated for better quality. Second -- reducing the possibility of corruption, it's a systemically one law where at least we can systematically operate. Third – Ensuring greater availability opportunities for dean, rector and high school directors. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call on you to vote, to give strong support to this interpretation of the law, especially from opposition benches, but I am sorry that you are gone but four, it proves how much you truly hold to this higher education, because at least in that way you will, even if you try to reduce the responsibility of previous ministers in the last 10 years, and those of your government, the former regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28550	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of Hopeda Petrovic Medical School from Zemun who are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Nebojsa Petrovic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28551	Thank you. The Honorable chairperson and respected fellow Members of Parliament, so when some segment of society or some area of social life encounters a problem that does not have enough internal power to solve it, the moment is of course to include the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to assist either in the form of a legal solution or, as in this case, by giving authentic interpretation to Article 54. The law on higher education. It is particularly important to respond quickly and adequately to a problem or requirement relating to higher education, because it is a place where we have concentration and knowledge and experience, but of course to youth and each in a long period of violation or abuse of certain rights and laws leaves far-reaching consequences for the whole society. I am sure that this authentic interpretation of the Serbian Parliament puts an end to and prevents further abuse of university autonomy. Fighting for the autonomy of universities and other higher education institutions in relation to their own state, i.e. its administration, I believe that we have come dangerously close, in practice, to a single autocratic governance within higher education. Not only do some colleagues forget where they come from, where they come from, and where they will be kept in those places for as long as they have to return, they often get into the role of employers and behave much more inappropriately than they do in private companies. This is due to the fact that at some universities today, in some universities, high schools, we have a campaign to choose from to the leading places, much stronger than it is in political life. This leads to one being created, I can say the bad atmosphere in collectives, that there is division among colleagues, and of course it can also be reflected in the success of the process itself in the higher education facility. It is very important to me, in the context of this interpretation and the position that I think may not be clearly drawn here, which is that in the overall collection and the possibility to remain or function as dean, director or another leading post within higher education, two choices are counted. So, there is no addition of years, although the law says that the mandate lasts for three years, two elections are solely accounted for. As long as the first or second choices last, that is, that they may be interrupted even earlier than the full duration of that election period, it is considered that someone has been elected. That's something I think we should also draw. In the end, I want to express one of my own personal attitudes. As far as higher education institutions are concerned, I consider one term of office to be sufficient. I believe that our higher education institutions in their composition have enough educational and capable teachers who can successfully perform these functions and that for three years it is quite enough for someone to show up and return naturally to their basic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28552	I was saying that there is one, I'm not individual and I'm not going to talk about names, but I will, that's exactly what the professors of the university and the citizens of Serbia are looking for, and that's what this Assembly is about, and it's on the agenda. So I'm talking about showing up and I wasn't talking about names. So, this authority, let me say and this ministry didn't give one such permission since it was in the neighbouring state. This is an example, and that is why we are just passing an interpretation of this law so that there can be no more than two mandates. As for the dean's term of office and article 54. The Law on Higher Education, there is a matter of gentlemen Members of Parliament, very clear, but the mandate of the Dean and the Rector or the Director of Higher Schools takes three years with the possibility of a reelection and a point. However, even previous laws, I must say, as Mr. Professor pointed out. Martinovic, since 2002, they have codified this matter, but this is important, but it has not respected the law that has been the general characteristics of the last 10 years and that is why Mr. Vice President we have to talk about, because that is why we bring it here. Of course, that they were doing this with knowledge, probably of the former authorities, because it cannot happen that a third term without the Ministry's knowledge is being carried out, because it is an inspection by previous ministers, was an inspection of the previous and principled, which, this minister, Verbic, replaced him to the satisfaction of all educational workers in this country, as well as the citizens of Serbia. According to some, as Dr. Orlic said, and the names of the university or just a letter in the name, so as not to remain dean. That's why we're saying it today. Some names have changed. Just these days, thanks to our minister, we once made it impossible to be a dean for over 20 years, with a choice that ended in one university. So they existed what I said, and the MPs in this House today repeated the masters of the life and death of their professors and students because they did what they wanted. No promotion of professors to more knowledge could have been promoted regardless of the references, without the authority of certain deans, not all, there are honorable and honest ones, but some of us have received these days in the Committee on Education, certain complaints that have in some way shocked us, because it is about the tragedies of certain educators, professors, and their families. Some were putting a promotion on the agenda waiting for three years and four, etc., precisely because they had a third and fourth term, etc. Some professors have lost their jobs, and there are cases like this today, so the interpretation of article 54. The law on higher education and restriction, Mr. Vice President, today's term of office is being watched by all university professors, believe me, because they're very interested in seeing how we're going to make the decision. It's not true what the previous speakers were saying from the opposition benches, our Ministry did extremely well and became to tell the district or the letter where it warned before the election that I couldn't do what I was talking about. Now, you see, this interpretation of the 54th in my opinion has three functions, firstly – raising the quality of the work of higher education institutions, which means that if the two mandates are dean, then they will probably be better advocated for better quality. Second -- reducing the possibility of corruption, it's a systemically one law where at least we can systematically operate. Third – Ensuring greater availability opportunities for dean, rector and high school directors. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call on you to vote, to give strong support to this interpretation of the law, especially from opposition benches, but I am sorry that you are gone but four, it proves how much you truly hold to this higher education, because at least in that way you will, even if you try to reduce the responsibility of previous ministers in the last 10 years, and those of your government, the former regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28553	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28554	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly, I am glad to be back on the agenda, which is - the authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. This authentic interpretation, we heard, was also given by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, fellow MP Mr. Martinovic, but we heard the precise argumentation and bringer of this law, the esteemed fellow MP Vladimir Orlic. The reason for this interpretation is that there were certain doubts in the application of this member of the law in practice. I'm sure from tomorrow we'll have an unequivocally clear application of this law and this member of the Higher Education Act. There won't be any more doubt. And the interpretation refers, as we have heard many times, to the selection of the organs of employment in higher education institutions to the selection of rectors and deans. The number of mandates was also limited in the previous University Law in 2002, but the legislator also transposed the provision as a permanent definition into the applicable Higher Education Act. The purpose of all this is to improve the quality of work in higher education institutions, to prevent all possible abuses and corruption we know to exist in our higher education. Therefore, it is clear that the dean and the rector are elected in two terms and are clearly elected regardless of whether these mandates are connected or have been paused in those mandates. Of course, it does not affect a change in the name of a higher education institution, or a change in the name and last name of a person, and all of this has happened so far in practice. I must point out that in the Law on Higher Education, there is a member of 107 who regulates the violation of this member of the law, which also provides for criminal provisions and fines. So, it's simple, what's going on isn't according to the law. I would take this opportunity to express my position, which is not currently on the agenda, but my desire and understanding is that this opinion is also passed on to the legislative framework at other levels of the education system, which are primary and secondary schools, that there is a limit of mandate in both primary and secondary schools. So this is another contribution to our way of respecting the law, to being equal to everyone. Of course, I will support the interpretation that we received from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and in Voting Day I will vote in favour, of course, with all my colleagues, the MPs of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28555	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28556	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are, here, on the trail of who already knows which amendments to the Law on Higher Education, and what the People's Recital means – what the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct, so that finally and by passing such a law as it is, whose basis was the introduction of the Bologna Process with the aim of autonomy and democratisation of the arrangement of higher education institutions, we put a stone around our necks, first because it is even in the EU agenda, that we must do so in such a way that we should join, it should not be respected. I guess at the time of the adoption, I don't know how, we didn't all vote for it then, or part of those who voted, having a sense of inferiority that maybe something wasn't autonomous enough in some time, gave it that kind of autonomy in which many deans, perhaps a lot of rectors, breaking a conscious law, past inspection control, which had to exist even then, took on a third term. Now, taking the third term, there's a criminal provision. I don't know if anyone has paid any fine for it, whatever it is they're responsible for, but I do know that many people who have done it continue to move forward, go not in the fourth term, go to rectorial calls, go to higher calls, etc. They will not be negatively connoted in biography, but on the contrary they will prove that they have enriched their CV, even if some institutions have united, one of the legal clauses that is being disabled here or potential that it is not valid to do so, is to unite two, three colleges into one, then you are a third dean. I am saying this because at the time of the term of office of Minister of the former, Minister Jovanovic, it seems to me, that I mentioned this third term in what I do not know about the basis of the renaming of a university in the collection of colleges, and some of these colleges were occupied by deans or university heads, who were previously in specialist offices, from there came to doctorate, to publish a large number of papers, etc. Why do I say that? Because in many places the Deans, as someone said, are gods, are people of great influence. They influence the career, influence the choice of bodies they cooperate with, say, the chief's departments, and then when they choose the chief's departments, they simply race, especially in those environments that feel they have not complicated enough student activities, student methodology and student rights to learn something, to master something and to have an efficient transition. Generally speaking, this kind of Bologna mechanism has not given us any better transit, although we have to admit it whether or not we wanted to, every year at the edge of the risk if we do not agree to go to a sublimed number of points, we do not execute an agenda with 60 ESP points, but with 48. So it's not effective. Mrs. Turajlic could have even at the time when she made the company, started the story, compared how many would have passed the exam if the less objects had been recognised. That wasn't possible, we turned the objects into points. To go back again, why is the dean important here? Because the dean, who can do it seriously, who can do it nicely, so provide himself with the opportunity to be chosen by putting himself in sublegal acts that the dean will be able to choose one who, for example, has an additional condition, let's say, a condition for mentoring. The conditions for mentorship create a second body independent, but not all colleges have put that condition in Belgrade. And so, mic by mic, then it allows someone else to get to the magazine more easily and faster, to publish, to come to the project with their internal connections, and then the story of depoliticization falls completely into the water. They find internal channels or worse than if it were the Ministry or the Government for Rectors, they're setting up an interesting lobby whose base is the people that politics used to help, they sit there. Now, they don't know how to get off that spot. Then, of course, in their inaugurations, in their promotions, they say that they are very proud that they, that they are good candidates, have rich CVs and that they will do everything to oppose political authority, the authority of the state, etc. Then comes the registration period and the minister has to beg the dean and the rector – please don't raise the cost of tuition, please justly schedule quotas when you grant doctoral scholarships and it's all so in the absence of real state control and that kind of autonomy and behavior, as if the dean is in private college. And there are restrictions from the boss. He doesn't have a boss here. He's everything to himself. It has above it a council, or Senate, that, if it successfully distributes power, can make decisions whatever it wants. Therefore, inequality and inconsistency in many curricula and programmes, in many evaluation criteria etc., will impair some students that if they do not come out within, say, the first to pass exams, in the latter they will have to get two lower grades and there is no god. Where was that, which Constitutional Court would support that? It was never, when he would come out and what his grade would be. It is in some colleges today, and we keep saying it. I, simply from the position of power, speak to this minister, that on behalf of what he will do in the amendments to the law, think about that variant. There's no need to have a complex of state arbitration. If the state is the owner, if the state is responsible, if the state finances, Serbian citizens finance colleges, they are doing an estimate of how many children should be enrolled, how much these children will cost. Well, architecture can't be cheaper in Padua than in Belgrade, etc., not to give other examples. Why are we doing this and is it just one of the steps that needs to be changed, and the point of change is that we have to ask the landlord, the owner what he thinks about it and ask the citizens themselves who invest in it? Today, students aren't what they used to be. They used to be able to do just one test period to get everybody together, get in to the dean and leave. The students today don't know what it was like to study once, what was the way of study, what it meant to pass the exam. Passing the exam was a normal thing. We're now blanco to transfer into the collection of 12 points who will, and then they're all looking, when they've already signed up, to be on the budget. We tie our own hands, continue to act irregularly, and the passing, the passing, the cobayage, the main motive, is not achieved. Secondly, the effectiveness of learning has not been achieved, the items are parcelled. How was that done? It's not a radio dean, it's just to say, but a good, nice, unintentional suggestion, and so I say to the scientific and teaching council, the suggestion of the department, the application and the subject, makes a variety of modes, creates and tests, creates different types of colloquium, different degrees of frequency, stabs it, and you get a chance for the student to go to the oral exam, knows about the ten, can't get it because of some so-called. Pre-examination obligations, and I remember Vuksanovic speaking in front of the cameras -- if the student fulfils 70% of the pre-examination obligations, he also passed the test. I begged him to come out and tell us, if you said to the camera, that we understood what he meant by that. What does it mean not to take the exam, not to take some medical items orally? It's a nonsens, then you do it all. Not only would some medical schools in Serbia go to the test phenomenon. They're taking over some of the Americanization models that Bologna himself is, which have kept lower state universities, lower rank. Those who kept to themselves would never accept it. I don't see why Serbia doesn't have the pride to hold on to itself, to its education system, to the way it's shown as effective, because everyone who's gone and something today is talking about Bologna or wondering about this kind of law... I'm talking to Bologna to make it simple. You all know what I mean. A four-page declaration, nothing more, and there's no academic mobility, no student mobility. You can't have a student from one college to another today, if you move to another college... He can at 60 points, he can't at 62, avoid passing one, two, or three exams. I gave some ministers comparative curricula and programs to see that it was possible and what he was talking about today, he talked about a few years ago when we last amended the law in another capacity. We've led to the fact that a nurse can enroll in her doctorate. What's that? Did we really get hyperinflation out of it now? There's a problem with the subject. No longer can mentors come up with topics of what children can do. Another problem, you get the subject, then he has to do some research, but it still has to be a little basic medicine. He goes to a laboratory for which Djelic also bought equipment, in his own time, and he gives a great deal of money from the EU loan and then some college gets, then the rest of Serbia, so that it's not everywhere, they run there to enroll the doctorates, and there's a cash register waiting for them, there it has to be paid. What kind of inspection is he gonna see? It can't all be if the dean's work was more transparent, if inspections and ministries were more involved, and if you didn't give someone two or three mandates, let's say, in an attempt, to perform that function. They simply create such strong connections of systemic support that you are powerless and if you intervene, then the state interferes, etc. etc., as if it were all their own personal question and as if at any private college, even the head of that university, he would and could do so, the owner, not to speak dean or vice president of a private university. With us, thanks to our having and breaking the law, which was clearly interpreted, the simple secretary of the university knew that someone couldn't go the third time. What, he didn't know how to interpret it legally? He knew, rather than care, if anyone lifts his head, he might have a little political support and no one will touch him, he'll cover it up, if he raises his head, who is that professor who raised his head, he'll send him an inspection, etc. etc. So, I may have gone further in my intention to present to the ministry when it works, not to go into changes to the law every year, to do the law right once, and to put things in place, to strengthen institutions that we have failed to strengthen, to bring back the community of colleges, which will unshape our curricula and programmes, and not to make a conference of universities that individual universities are not interested in excessively, do not enter into the details of the programme, do so. The autonomy of the university and you don't know now who ended up where, what he skipped, what he learned in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, in Nis, and only external academic mobility, it's that man doesn't believe what it's all about and how it's all going to be accumulated afterwards. The worst damage will be to our students who, unfortunately today, are learning foreign languages and are ready to go out because they do not see the perspective so much here, which, of course, internal circles, people who are privileged to allow employment, no longer politically, should no longer go to university on a political basis. He was once acquired. Lobistic groups were created and who knows more what form, which variants of political influence, are held in unity, primarily united. First of all, they have interesting reasons. So I think this is one of the important interpretations. This isn't an amendment to the law, it's just an authentic interpretation. What should we do when we change the law, we'll see, we'll probably welcome that change of law and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28557	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28558	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, the higher values are a fundamentally controversial category, the higher values of civilization are estimated to be or are not. It's a matter of people coming after them to assess whether it's like that or not, but in any case, they're controversial. Higher values or higher officials, whatever categories they are, are a particularly controversial category. Some very skilled people in positions have come up with various ways to become so that they can remain eternal. Many staff committees, many bodies of decision-making at universities, universities, firms, schools, wherever there is management at some level have devised various ways to become and remain eternal. The majority of functions of rectors, deans, directors, any executive is something that is incompatible with the fluids of civilization and something that is a retrograde phenomenon. Therefore, this initiative, which has been submitted on the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education, which would legally limit the different ways, the type of these achievements and the appointments of various committees that will support their staying and survival at these high functions, is a good thing, because the law will regulate, or be prevented from using the privilege of the majority over two mandates. The majority executive, especially the university or university higher education institutions, I think is the most devastating among all the senior directors or politicians, because higher education institutions are the ones that need to be dragged forward and that need to promote the knowledge, culture and progress of a society. It is so much more important that we try to make a decision at this time, which is to hang in the domain of the rectors and deans in this legal way. I think this was a great way to keep the staff in the former regime or in the former regimes, by designing a story that would make a senior director, or a majority dean or a majority rector, so that they did two, three or four mandates on a variety of events that my colleagues had said before, that I wasn't repeating myself. It is particularly important that those who run higher education institutions in the sphere of various sciences, and especially I think that this is important in the field of medical science, because medicine is something that life, or health means and that is terribly fast going forward. It's not good for some people who get stuck in the position of the rector or the dean of the medical school, and other colleges, of course, to stay there long, because they get swept up in their chair, a little out of science, a little off from what science brings, and then they're slowly lagging behind in it. I'll give you an example, in the 1980s, there was a story about cytogenetics and it was then popularly referred to as "the child from the test tube". Everyone then voiced against that paper in medicine, and a newspaper in genetics. It is even declared blasphemy or something that will bring misfortune to mankind. We are now witnessing that a large number of people, a high percentage of pregnancy, is caused by an out-of-body fertilization, and it has practically become something that has been routinely introduced into practice. Now it's an actual struggle of old personnel, let's say, against genetic engineering at various levels, especially in agriculture. I'm afraid it's something that serves them to preserve acquired positions and to preserve some of their knowledge and titles they've received without getting involved enough in the modern flows of genetic engineering and genetic modification. Well, from that point on, they defend their point of view even more strongly and some new attitudes and new tendencies in genetics and in the development of science. With this, I think it is very good that all personnel in scientific institutions, and particularly biotechnology, medically moving significantly faster than technical and social advances, change more often to be one, two mandates as proposed, because this is the basic element of progress and what is called progress in the civilization achievements and the progress of a society in all areas of action and being. So I think it's very important to make all the officials, all the directors, all the rectors, all the deans of the variable categories, that they don't stay and become multipliers at any of their assigned functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28559	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Let MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, I think it is very important that we always approach with special seriousness the debates concerning the issues of education, and in this case the issues of higher education, in particular the authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. My seriousness in relation to this area and on this subject I, I think, also showed by acting together with MP Zoran Zivkovic when we prepared with consultations with the people of our party, a program of transformation of the system of higher education, which I recommend to read to all Members of Parliament and to all citizens of our Republic. We now have one case of authentic interpretation of one attitude and one member of the Law on Higher Education. In an authentic interpretation, gentlemen, the National Assembly seeks to further explain the position or content of a member of a certain law. We have a specific case here that, MP Mr. Orlic, suggested that an authentic interpretation of one attitude be brought, and that authentic interpretation concerns, here, the content of this attitude. He says – the body of the university's operation is the rector, the university dean, the Academy of Professional Studies president and the High School of Professional Studies Director. Then we have one sentence, he says – the body of the business is chosen for three years with the possibility of a re-election. For me, for example, it contains this attitude, this member, and this is defined clearly. But I can understand that there are some people who, even in their practical actions, behave precisely with the positions involved in this provision, so it is not clear to them whether they can only be chosen twice and that it is necessary for the National Assembly to bring authentic interpretations. But be careful, gentlemen, that reminds me a little bit, here, let me give you an example here. For example, this is clear to me and now this whole situation seems to me like, for example, that now most of us here are absolutely clear that today is Wednesday and now we need to see what Wednesday is. Now, I think most of you know, Wednesday is the third day of the week, first after Tuesday, for example, or second after Monday, third after the week. Now imagine, for example, that there is someone, for example, Professor Atlagic was discussing, so he could mention Professor. The Atlagic who says, "Well, I don't really count, I don't count the days of the week, I count the days of the Sabbath." And Mr. Atlagic comes and says – well, for me Wednesday is not the third day of the week and I pray now authentic interpretation. I agree, and in such cases the National Assembly should bring authentic interpretation. Then when something seems absolutely clear to us, and we see that there are some examples that suggest that someone doesn't even understand what is absolutely clear, that the National Assembly should bring authentic interpretation to explain it. But, gentlemen, I believe that, in addition to taking an authentic interpretation of something that is clear, both Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic, but also Mr. Posukurica and Mr. Atlagic, we should be here, when we talk about education, and especially about higher education to deal with and something urgent. What is the urgent respect, gentlemen, and we're talking about the Higher Education Act? The urgent question is respecting the principles of academic honesty in our higher education system. I, dear Mr. Becic, have my doubts as to how Mr. Orlic, for example, did not think of it, when he proposed to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provisions of this article of the Law on Higher Education, that one of the previous members of the same law lacked a principle I have wanted for seven or eight months, which I suggest here, that we urgently discuss, because we are getting rebuked by international institutions, international organisations not to respond to serious violations of the principles of academic integrity. Here, I ask Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Poscuric and Mr. Atlagic, all the SNS professors. How come they don't react to something urgent, and they react urgently to something that I think is clear, as clearly respected gentlemen, that today is Wednesday and that Wednesday is the third day of the week, first after Tuesday, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28561	Thank you. Although you tried to mention several MPs, I don't think that's possible at this point. Word by MP Dr Vladimir Orlic, authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group You mean your goal has been achieved. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: There is a replica.]] Here you go, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28562	Yes, there's a replica, but for me. Will be for the others we'll see. I answer the direct question, Mr. Chairman. So the question -- why isn't it responding to something that's considered urgent? It's about some honesty again, isn't it? So the answer to the white is nothing urgent just because any respected colleague thinks it's urgent. It's not enough in itself to qualify as an emergency. That proposal, I mean ladies and gentlemen, I was already speaking in this room, the last time we were here in the company of the Minister of Education. I think I made it very clear then that as far as I'm concerned, this proposal that I'm really not going to waste my time today, or ever, when it's not on the agenda, is a completely missed story, and that's why I can't support it by voting, when we're talking about putting it on the agenda. It stays that way until the proposal is better, and in which it can be better, I will gladly explain beyond the session where something completely different is discussed, to whoever suggests it. Why are we responding at a time when there is a request for authentic interpretation of the law, specifically under Article 54(1)? Because it's our duty and we take this duty in the SNS very seriously, to react on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28563	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Pavicevic, regardless of what you have reported for the replica, the presentation of Mr. Orlic does not allow you to be able to give you a replica. We'll see if it'll be in Mr. Poscurica's exposure. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28564	I guess not. I'm not provoking replicas. To answer the question why we don't think academic honesty is something that's controversial. I don't think that's a question, that's something to be respected. But I'm absolutely sure that those who wronged themselves and did the third term and if there was a code of academic integrity, they would have broken it. The only way to control it is if it's chosen by the minister, by the government, by someone specific, so the biography comes, twice chosen, the third time automatically cannot. What he's going to write is that he's receiving a code of academic honesty and they're not going to drag him through third, he's changing his last name, or the name of the university, I wasn't sure. That's how it was. So in principle, I did not prefer such a solution but went to a very specific and clear solution regarding both ownership relations and decision-making rights and measures. You can't do anything to the dean anymore, he's chosen by the council of the university, what you can do to him. You can ask him all you want, he raises his tuition, he can change the conditions of study, and when students strike, when they raise their voice where there are few points, they all go to the minister. They don't go to the dean. He's saying so much that it's changed. The students used to be powerful. I don't call on those times and the way they acted, they ran at the Dean's door, blocked the institutions. I don't call or think that's right. It's not normal in the world either. Some dean have resigned, had no courage to fight. Today, students are being patterned, just shaking and looking at the clock when they start teaching, teaching, because they give students more points than they do orally. So, the system's not good. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28565	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Unfortunately, Mr. Pavicevic, even in the presentation of Mr. Pokurica, has no opportunity for your replica. Mr. Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28566	Here, Mr. Chairman, I have no intention of challenging what you say, a replica, but simply because of the citizens of Serbia and the educators who are watching us. I've already quoted from the dictionary, I've got five dictionaries here, which means congratulations, so morally clean. All of us who have finished colleges, and I believe Mr. Docent, at least as far as social sciences are concerned, have learned pedagogy. One of the teaching units when we were listening was the teacher's personality. When it comes to the personality of teachers or teachers, the central place stands - morally clean. Hence, there is not even a reason to pass a law on moral cleanliness. So, one of the characteristics of teachers, we learned this in pedagogy, and I believe that even a doctor, a respected doctor, is at the Faculty of Political Sciences, that even today they listen to students of political sciences and one of the basic characteristics is still standing – a morally clean teacher. That's understood. With that more, since we discussed it while Mr. Minister was here, which has no statutes of the university, at least I hope, and examined a twenty, where he does not stand next to the rest that this moral value of teachers. It's a matter of morality, a matter of personality, and I know there are also those of which the respected doctor speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28567	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. (Vladimir Pavicevic from the post: I am the only docent,) Unfortunately, Mr Pavicevic's word "docent" or "docent" is not enough for your replica. You're not the only doctor in the assembly, and I don't know if Mr. Atlagic was thinking of you. Thank you. The word has been made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, and let the MP Borislav Stefanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28568	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate in most parts has been really academic, and I have to say that some parts have been very interesting to me, even some parts of MPs that don't belong to the opposition. I listened with attention to Mr. Pokuric, who almost told us all about our higher education. I probably don't look, Mr. Chairman, to someone who listens to hip-hop, but I'll try to explain through hip-hop what Mr. Posukurica was talking about. I listened these days, i.e. I heard a random song from Marcel "Laz", which speaks of a medical student who in ways other than legal came to a degree in medical school, hired himself in ways other than legal to be a doctor and not at any place, but as a surgeon...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28569	Mr. Veselinović, just one request, since you started saying so that the public wouldn't think you were talking about Mr. Poscurica, please just make it clear. Since he's a doctor, I don't think it's just to talk about him and then I can't let him insult the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28570	No, no, actually, I want to commend Mr. Poscurica's discussion and his discussion was an inspiration to me to say this. So, I'm talking about a song and it's an anti-sub under what Mr. Poscurica was talking about -- what students should be, and that's to be students who, after college, should be ready to do their job in a good way. You interrupted me in this part of the... So absolutely not. So that doctor became a surgeon. Unfortunately, he was the only one on shift and he had a patient come in with a problem with his appendix and he died. Unfortunately, there is no politicisation here, unfortunately, our higher education is sick, and it can happen to us not only in the field of medicine, but also in the fields of law, economy and in all other areas unless we take care of what Mr. Poscurica was talking about, which is the quality of education, the quality of teaching and scientific staff and the uniformity of principles. Mr. Pokurica spoke of the fact that extracurricular activities are sometimes more important than students' knowledge. The fact is that you can pass the exam through the presence of seminar papers and colloquium, and that the student who was perfectly aware of the exam received the midterm no greater than a week, although he may have known about the score of ten. So, this has everything to do with this authentic interpretation because I realized that from the reasons put forward by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, I myself am a member of this Committee and I support this proposal, whether it is necessary for some area to be defined which is not clear enough, I will say something about it, and to break up with this practice at higher education institutions, that colleges become feuds, high schools become feuds, academics and arts become feuds and that thus the quality of education collapses. So, this wish of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, or the Proposer, that such authentic interpretation be adopted, is quite justified to me, and perhaps in this particular case, it will achieve a purpose. What I absolutely agree with Mr Pavicevic and his colleagues, even his colleagues, Neđa Jovanovic, who spoke about the provision of the law, was not unclear at all. So that provision was not unclear at all, and if we had a quality state, if we had quality work in the ministries and the application of the law to this ambiguity wouldn't have happened. Here's what's in the authentic interpretation and what's being explained. So why is it believed that a person cannot be elected more than twice to the post of dean, rector, director of a higher education institution and says – where the total number of mandates they can have in that institution are not affected by changes in the name and last name of that person. So in this authentic interpretation, which has more to do with genetics than education, we say that one person who changes his name and last name is still the same face. Does this mean that we will, in a similar way, change the laws relating to the election of the President of the Republic, and we will say, that a person cannot be elected for the President of the Republic if there is a change in the name and last name of that person? So, absolutely comparable, absolutely comparable, same law, incoherent organ. It could happen that someone would try to change their last name or by getting married, like adding a last name, someone competing for a third term, competing under quotes, being president of the Republic, because he changed his last name. So I think that this is what is rightly called prenormation, therefore, that this authentic interpretation that becomes an integral part of the law is a prenormation, I'm not saying - not justifiable and will solve this particular case, but I believe that the application of the law, first of all, is the duty of those for which they are brought and that so far the law has been applied consistently, could not have been elected to three terms because it changed his personal name and last name or because the institution changed his name for that same reason. So I don't dispute that this is kind of a halted practice that one person is elected Dean in four, five terms, but if we move on to this system of norms then we'll have serious problems. Many will seek authentic interpretations for something that is clear, so it is clear that something is black or clear that something is white. In that sense, I suggest that this authentic interpretation, either I suggest or suggest, be a suggestion to all of us, I say once again, in one very serious debate that we have had, to change something urgently in higher education, because without quality education and higher education, we will have no quality justice, no quality health care, no good engineers, etc. So unless we change something urgently, if we don't know and have the same rules in colleges, and if we don't adapt to the situation in our higher education, that one teacher doesn't happen, everyone here who works in colleges knows, they apply Bologna directly, the other one applies it indirectly, so in one section for the student's grade, it's just a score, and in the second section of the other professor, there's a set of all points, lectures, colloquium, etc. So, of course, we'll support this authentic interpretation, we'll vote for it. However, I agree and agree, as someone has said, that is, by Valtazar Bogisic, well-known Montenegrin or Serbian, however you will, the lawyer – what the coat of arms does not correct, that simply by this authentic interpretation we will not correct the bad situation in our education, or poor state in the country, for which, of course, the current government is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28571	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. You don't want to? Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want to be told by the president, or by representatives of the parliamentary groups or by someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen, as we usually do, a brief recapitulation of today's debate and also a thank-you to all colleagues who took part in today's debate and highlighted support for the proposal to adopt authentic interpretation in the way it was proposed, and to give thanks to colleagues from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, because, regardless of where the initiative came from, the proposal has been defined in the form in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is before us. I believe, with the agreement reached, that there are reasons why we should adopt this authentic interpretation, with the agreement reached on the fact that it is useful. A few more answers to a few of the questions that came up today. We will certainly not eventually spread this debate beyond what is the topic on the agenda. This will solve some of the problems that are specifically related to the issues of these mandates of the managing authority. The truth is, it won't solve the issue of basic principles of education, nor, I suppose, there's anything to be solved, but I would take the opportunity to remind everyone that the answer to that question is already in place, contained in Article 55 of the Law. So, if there is a need for us to ever discuss ethics again, I call on distinguished colleagues to consult the contents of that member. There it is already beautiful and detailedly explained who deals with these issues in higher education and how I believe that what will be much clearer. Furthermore, if this represents a kind of over-normation with the support of the proposal at the same time, I will skip to the conclusion that we agree and support each other. However, I must remind you that if we had quality work in the state and the ministry was doing its job, we wouldn't have to discuss this one more time, we're not standing. In case anyone missed the debate in the past, the ministry did react on its own, the ministry did set this up as a topic and it happened on time, it happened in January of this year, it happened in a formal, official way. What is our indication that it was necessary to react in the way we do today, that is, to respond to the National Assembly? Calling on directly involved actors to make opinions, views, memos of the ministry to them not legally binding. You know, if such attitudes come from an institution like Law School, there's a need to adequately define response and reaction. So that's the answer to all the questions why we're doing this today. Are we changing the laws for the President of the Republic? Of course, for these reasons, we won't, nor are we changing the law at all today. Once again, we are engaged in authentic interpretation. An interesting question and I simply couldn't resist the association, you know, this issue of the President of the Republic and these multiple mandates has one thing to do with the other, because in a country that, from time to time, faces some absurdity here and there, that the authorities of higher education may have seen a bad example in some attempts to be president of the Republic in the number of mandates that it doesn't have, and that may have contributed to misunderstanding on this issue. I think my colleagues understand what I'm talking about and I thank them for their kind of metaphor, she was great. So, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, everything that's wrong with higher education, it's certainly a process, we're all working on common forces, and I think it's an initiative to sort out and achieve a level of quality that we're all going to be satisfied with, in fact, and dictated by the SNS. Among other things, and the initiative for this authentic interpretation and solving of this problem is the SNS initiative and I am confident, ladies and gentlemen, to be adopted by the National Assembly. The SNS will certainly participate in that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-20-0.u28573	Thank you. I'm concluding a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation. After the search has been carried out, the National Assembly will, in the day of the vote, decide on a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1). The law on higher education. The session will be held tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word. Here you go.
