ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30891	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of the People's Parliaments' presence, I find that the meeting is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 111 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic and Ljiljana Kosoric. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I invite you to attend today's session by Culture and Information Minister Ivan Tasovac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information Sasa Mirkovic, Head of Department of Culture and Information at the Ministry of Culture and Information Snezana Pečenčić and Group Manager at the Ministry of Culture and Information Dejan Stojanović. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30892	As Mr Pavicevic and I are in the principle debate, there is no excuse to extend the deadline for implementing this law. There's no reason to convince us that moving the deadline in a few months will change anything in this area. The justification that some irresponsible people in the media are guilty, irresponsible people in local self-government, above all, cannot stand, because the Serbian government as an executive body is competent to enforce laws and cannot transfer its responsibility to someone else. If someone obstructs law enforcement, there must be sanctions for it, and these people should have been warned, and then sharply alerted, and then warned for the last time, and finally, the government should have taken the situation into its own hands. We have a clear situation that the state, the local self-government, the province of Vojvodina should come out of the media and there is no doubt about it or disagreement, but it is obvious that this government is unable to implement such a project. It's very simple. By obstructing the work, or by obstructing the application of the law by the Government itself, we get a society that cannot possibly be called the rule of law society, we cannot be called organized society, we cannot be called a state that can guarantee its citizens the law passed by this Assembly, even when these laws are good and that is something that cannot get our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30893	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic and you want the same amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Minister Tasovac, we have also announced in principle debate here that it is contained in this bill, gentlemen, in a clash with one of the basic principles of our Constitution, which is the principle of rule of law which is defined by Article 3 of our Constitution. Minister Tasovac today, gentlemen, suggests that we choose between the rule of law as one of the basic principles and his wishes and the government's desire to extend the deadline for media privatisation. Minister Tasovac, once again I ask you to reconsider. Well, we can't allow ourselves here, we can't do it as MPs, to choose between one of the greatest principles of any modern constitutive democracy, and that's the principle of rule of law and the idea of extending the deadline for some media that has proved that those who lead them haven't done a thing. Dear gentlemen, on August 2nd, we've all ordered here that one job must be done on July 1st. The job has not been done, and today we need to say that what Minister Tasovac had to be done by July 1st, which was not, gentlemen, done by July 1st, must now be done by October 31st, without any question of responsibility being asked for what had to be done and what had not been done. Minister Tasovac, who will now trust us more now that what had to be done by July 1st and what was not done must be done now. Minister Tasovac, you wrote here that you do not understand how this bill violates the rule of law. Here, I'm telling you now how to break. Who's going to believe us when we say he has to, so it doesn't happen, that he's really going to have to by October 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30895	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30896	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected guests, respected citizens, we have submitted the amendment to Mrs Vesna Marjanovic and I personally for the simple reason that we have noted that under suspicious circumstances there is a privatisation of certain media in Serbia. Study B is the most obvious example when it comes to the capital, but some MPs have also expressed concern about local media across the Republic of Serbia. The amendment which we have submitted is that continuity in the production of media content under Article 2 of this Article for electronic media implies the obligation to maintain the share of programming time in accordance with the programme scheme which was in force within 24 months before the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. the obligation to maintain the share of information, educational, scientific, cultural and artistic, children's, entertainment, sports and other software content that is of importance to the public interest. We also suggest that when it comes to print media, the Privatisation Agency would also provide an insight into the former RRA, the current REM, with a report on the purchase contracts. Also, when it comes to printed media, the press council would be the one to be informed about whether the purchase agreement is respected and whether this thing, which would become an integral part of the law, is being respected entirely. We suggested this for the simple reason why and when the debate was in principle we talked about how much today, for example. Some media abuse, knowing that they will be privatized. Already today Studio B has an editorial policy that not only lowers its price, but leads to the fact that the contents of public interest and importance and cultural and educational and even informative education are not carried out in accordance with the Information Act. I think it's very important that you respect this matter or adopt this amendment. I think he can only contribute to better communication between local self-government, us as MPs, you as a minister and these local media that are already slowly going to the era or will privateize and belong to some tycoons or they will be completely shut down, as the MPs of the national minorities put it. So what's terribly important is that you don't allow any malfeasance. We have, also in line with this amendment and several questions that are being asked to us today, as MPs. Here, I'll use it to appoint you, on behalf of the citizens, as the minister, who proposes these amendments and additions to the law. For example, why are cross-border channels, FoxLife, on cable TV, overrun when it comes to original content and unauthorized commercials by domestic companies? This is, for example, an amendment that will prevent, among other things, this thing. These channels are located outside the legal tax system and operating completely in the gray zone, Mr. Minister. The annual tens of millions of euros this way are paid by domestic companies when it comes to advertising space for something that this advertising space cannot be, and by Article 100(2). The information law. Not only is the law broken, and not only is the law not applied, but we have a situation here to punish 500 thousand dinars, prescribed by the RRA, and today REM, absolutely not. We now have a case that someone is renting advertising space on channels where it is not possible under the Law and thus bypassing the tax administration, the country's tax system and dozens and dozens of millions of euros are thus completely omitted from Serbia's legal order. This is convenient for those companies, politicians and tycoons who have this much money to advertise themselves or their contents in this way. It is not under the law and it is a matter that is absolutely not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you to consider that this amendment, when it comes to printed media and when it comes to electronic media, will be adopted, because it will contribute to the respect of the law and any possible abuse will be reduced to the least possible extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30897	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30898	When we passed the Law, that deadline was scheduled for 12 months. Your proposal could be confusing, since you know there are summer and winter schemes, and here it's very clearly defined, so it's 12 months. The question you asked is not about any changes to this law and does not apply to the media that should be privatized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30899	The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30900	Thank you, Madam President, Mr. Minister, and I would only ask that I use the time of my authorised representative, if possible. Also, on this amendment, I would like to ask a few questions, because from the reasons given by the Government, or the Ministry, I did not understand that there are strong enough arguments to reject this amendment. The point, if I understand correctly, among other things, of these changes, and that is the only change I support and that I think is good, is that Article 1 strengthens the obligations of the buyer, compared to the previous text of the law, and it is said that the buyer of the media, therefore, is defined exactly by the customer, as the one that is needed, which is obliged to provide continuity in the programming scheme, or in the content of the program for the next five years. I understand this well. It is not essential, I hope, that these laws only privatise the media and that they go to the age and get the highest possible price, because the media are not only goods, but are also public good, something that will benefit the citizens and in the coming period, regardless of who will be the owner, even though the owners will be private. I ask the question – if we have set a deadline of 12 months, did some media, who knew that privatisation would follow, because it was clear when these laws were passed last year, already adjusted the programming scheme by reducing participation in the amount of information, educational, cultural programme, so that they prepared themselves well for privatisation, and whoever bought the media now no longer has to take care of the participation of these most vital programs for citizens in their programming scheme after becoming owners? Among other things, I am asking this question because, in the past period, on the Committee on Culture, we have had discussions when we talked and when the RRA submitted a report that there is no law so precise that it is the percentage of the participation of an informative, educational, cultural programme and that it is the subject of an arbitration. The purpose of this amendment was to extend the deadline to achieve the highest possible percentage of the programme's participation. I have to admit that I don't understand the explanation it says – in practice it will create problems. I would ask Mr. Minister to explain to us exactly how in practice this will create problems, and why is there some big difference, in a practical sense, between defining what the programming scheme is in one year or over the past two years, or 24 months? Also, I'd like to ask a question in the part where we predicted that when it comes to privatising printed media to consult the press council. I can understand that, of course, it's not a state body, that they are not authorized to exercise public authority so far, but it just shows that that law was being prepared in a broader public debate, that there was time and opportunity for the press council to be involved in this process. I think it's a shame, because for the electronic media, we have an Agency that's authorized and able to monitor it, but for the printed media, we don't. An evaluation of media content in the printed media will be given by a judicial expert. I think that's not enough, and I think it's a shame that we didn't think about it, or that there was a longer debate we could have done it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30901	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30902	The very programming scheme, as you know, controls REM, and as far as the press council is concerned, I must commend the extremely inclusive part of their participation in the whole adoption of this law. What you have suggested is not intended for their statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30903	The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30904	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, co-workers and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, and in Article 2 and 3 where I have suggested that the words "in the period of time of" be deleted. Here's what this attitude one looks like. – Continuity in the production of media content as set out in Article 2 of this Article for electronic media implies, the obligation to maintain the share of programming time in accordance with the programme scheme applicable 12 months before the date of entry into force of the Law, i.e. the obligation to maintain the share of information, educational, scientific, cultural and artistic, children's, entertainment, sports and other software content of public interest in certain languages of national minorities, in accordance with the programme scheme applicable 12 months before the date of entry into force of this law. I did it because it represents a language correction of this norm and is in line with the standards of the literary Serbian language and is in line with the rules of legal normation. You replied that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason that, by solving the draft law, the software scheme of electronic media is linked for a period of one year, given that electronic media have different programming schemes in the winter and summer period. I don't understand what you've said to me. What would our people say? What did the poet mean by this? I would ask you to answer, because those who have written these amendments, and the essence is that they refuse, and that's fine, it's your right to refuse the amendments, but give at least an adequate explanation. I've written what I'm proposing to delete this mailbox, and you say so, even though it doesn't stand in Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30905	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30906	Dear MP, that definition was left in the law when we passed it, which I think defines very clearly this entire area.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30907	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30908	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, the amendment we have proposed to Article 1 of this Act has been tasked with removing those discriminatory provisions proposed by the Proposer, so I urge you to exercise your right to adopt this amendment until it is yet to be too late and to improve this bill as much as possible. The bill states that the obligation to maintain the share of information and other software content is ensured, but in certain languages of national minorities. It is simply incomprehensible for someone in the 21st century in a country who seeks to be a democratic European country to write in the bill a provision that says – in certain languages of national minorities. Not entering into the aspect of this word – in particular, this provision opens up a huge space for abuses that we certainly have in everyday life. The question is, what about other languages of national minorities and whether the categorization of national communities is being introduced here to those individuals who can enjoy some right and to those other individuals who cannot do so. I must remind you that in everyday life in Serbia, it is already in force to discriminate against the standard and instead of improving the state of play with new law proposals, you confirm the continuation of such a policy. I must stress that in our country we have two levels of rights and that of the province we have in Vojvodina, which is satisfactory and we have a situation in the rest of Serbia where it is impossible to achieve most of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of this country. It is not surprising, therefore, that national councils in the Republic of Serbia are increasingly transferring their seats to the territory of the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, I spoke in the discussion in principle of the need to ensure effective legal mechanisms for improving the exercise of minority rights, including the right to information in the native language. In this regard, we have proposed this amendment to control the implementation of the customers' commitments, in addition to the Privatisation Agency, and the national councils of the national minorities. This is a way to entrust a strong control mechanism to national councils as legitimate institutions for the establishment and protection of the rights of members of national communities. I do not see anything controversial in the national councils to entrust control of something that is of essential interest, such as information in the native language. Your unpreparedness to propose essential mechanisms, but also the unwillingness to accept amendments that go in that direction, unfortunately, shows that this is only about cosmetic changes to the law. I said it in principle, and now I'm telling you again we're never gonna support cosmetic laws. Our idea is that as we change the law, we change the essential provisions that will improve daily life in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30909	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30910	Dear MP, when the bill uses a term – individual languages of national minorities, it is in no way discriminatory. It refers to those media that need to be privatised, that they have to keep in the programming scheme exactly the programming scheme in which the languages of national minorities are used.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30911	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Baravidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30912	This is an amendment to Article 1, paragraph 5, where we propose to add the words "six months of reporting" after the word "based". The amendment is not accepted, the ministry says, because solutions in the bill have been made in co-operation with the Privatisation Agency and the regulatory body for electronic media. The Agency and the Regulatory Authority have signed a Protocol closer to regulating their mutual obligations regarding the monitoring and compliance of customer contractual obligations. We felt that the control of compliance with the contractual obligations of the media customers must be more precisely time-defined, or defined. So we predicted that the regulatory body for electronic media submitted a report to the Privatisation Agency at a six-month level, which would represent a timely monitoring of the performance of the contractual obligations. You also said in your explanation that there was a protocol between the Privatisation Agency and the regulatory body, so I'm interested in what the content of the protocol is. I'm interested in how to monitor the valid contractual obligations of customers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30913	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30914	As you said, it is not the Ministry of Culture and Information that signatories the protocol, but it is clear that this protocol is closer to their mutual obligations in connection with monitoring the compliance of media buyers' contractual obligations. That is their obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30915	Thank you. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. People's MP Branka Karavidic spoke, but before her, Minister Tasov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30916	This amendment can be accepted. The government will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30917	So you accept the amendment for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30918	Yes, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30919	So the amendment is accepted by the government. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30920	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, in a detailed reading of the amendment proposal, we have seen some illogicalness so that the former Article 5, which refers to the initiative submitted to the Privatisation Agency where it calls for Article 3, is actually not an adequate position 3, but it is changing and that is Article 8. The same applies to the next position where instead of the number four is replaced by the number nine. All these views refer to privatisation, i.e. the Privatisation Agency's initiative. I also brought it up on the Committee on Culture and it is good that you have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30921	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Vesna Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30922	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we invite you to adopt our amendment to Article 1(6) because I believe that you, as well as all of us, know that public information in the languages of national minorities is an important sector of every country. National minorities in Serbia have the Constitution and the law guaranteeing information rights in their native language. An earlier law on privatising the media in the languages of national minorities has stopped them and they were owned by municipalities and cities. However, changes to the law since last year have defined that the state must not own the media and that a deadline for privatisation, as we all know, is now being re-amended. Even then, we have indicated that national minorities will be particularly threatened by this law, especially in Serbia, if the media changes the programming scheme will be left without the possibility of informing in their native language. It's a good thing these changes determine that the deadline for banning changes is five years. Unfortunately, however, these proposed solutions do not guarantee that national minorities will have the possibility to inform in their native language after 31 October. Radio "Sabotica" and Radio "Kovačica" are special examples that would necessarily have to express what we pointed to last time, because they have a four-language program, which is indeed a rarity throughout Europe. Division of actions is also not a good solution, because there are no businesses in Serbia that would continue to operate in this way. The results of the measurement and sustainability index in Serbia for 2015, done by IREKS, show an estimate of 1.8 on a scale of one to four, which is a deterioration compared to the previous year. The economic climate in Serbia is not good and this solution would most likely lead to media shutting down. I would also like to point out that the DS has also shown in Vojvodina that politics is being led towards national minorities so that the Vojvodina Radio has a daily programme in five languages. Our proposal, i.e. the DS proposal, is that the state for media broadcasting the programme into a minimum of two languages transfers the founding rights to national councils and thus fulfils their legal authority to take care of the media that have a minority language programme. This law, which is passed specifically, will endanger minorities in the territory of Serbia, Bulgarians and Vlasi, etc. because they will most likely run out of media, because the Public Service does not have its full function and does not have a program in the languages of national minorities. Public service has also clearly ignored for years the fact that Serbia is a multiethnic society and should in its programme ensure the expression of the cultural identity of national minorities. Since we do not see in your explanation for the refusal of this amendment, I would also like you to answer the question orally – when it happens, or when national minorities are left without a programme in the languages of these minorities, what will be in that case the country's strategy, and we know that the opening of Chapter 23, which regulates both rights and whose third version of the Action Plan is just returned from Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30923	The word has Olena Papuga, then the minister is sorry. Minister Tasovac, please. But, Ministers, stay signed up all the time to give you my word. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30924	Dear Members, I just need to correct you Public Service on the Vojvodina Radio has a program in ten languages of national minorities, not five, that's one thing. Secondly, as far as your amendment is concerned, we cannot accept it, among other things, because the Constitutional Court's decision puts it outside the scope of Article 19(2). The Law on National Councils of National Minorities, which states that the Republic of the AP or the unit of local self-government as the founder of public undertakings and public information institutions, which, in general or mainly, informs the language of the national minority, may, in agreement with the national council in general or partially, transfer the founding rights to the National Council. As for your concern that national minorities will lose their constitutional right to inform in their own language, I can reassure you of that, because one of the priorities and interests of the Serbian government is not only possible but also to advance it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30925	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30926	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I would also like to commend that amendment and ask you to accept it and think again about it. I don't understand how you think you transfer the founding rights of national councils to information in local media? What money is that going to do, and do you have a strategy on what it's going to look like? How will information take place in the languages of local minorities? We understand what Public Service is doing in Vojvodina, what the public service of RTS in Serbia is doing. What a public service, for example. in Serbia, it informs on the position of national minorities and in which languages it informs. I'll give you just one example, when the elections to the national councils were the public service RTS with a few minutes just informed that the elections were, that elections were going on. It was a week. No other term has been provided, even if I do not say in the languages of the national minorities that the elections are. So, only the Vojvodina RadioTelevision has informed not only in the languages of national minorities, but it has had all the shows that elections are republican, parliamentary for national minorities in progress. I'm really asking you -- how will the information in the languages of the national communities on the local level be going? The fact is that founding rights can have national advice, but from what means will they do so?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30927	Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30928	I have to tell you that already this year, there has been a significant increase in the budget for project financing in the languages of national minorities, and local self-government is also obliged to provide these same budgets, and this applies to the very media that are privatised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30929	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30930	Yes, Minister, the fact is that not all media will be privatized. I think you also know that maybe half, maybe, God forbid, two-thirds of the media won't be privatized. What happens if the information center, for example, happens? in The Tower, which has been in existence for nearly 60 years, will most likely not be privatized and informs except in Serbian four more languages? If that medium is not privatized, what will happen to information in the languages of national minorities? This project funding from the budget is, I have already said, and in my principle debate, the media is not, in some way, NGOs that the funds arrive and they don't arrive. Tell me specifically - what will this funding look like in projects and in municipalities where the media will not be privatized, which no one will buy?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30931	Thank you. Only Ambassador Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30932	Thank you, Your Honor. In addition to the amendment tabled by the DS colleagues, I must say that we will support this amendment for the reasons that there are several facts that speak exactly the opposite of what the minister has brought here, and I would very much like to hear the arguments he has on the matter of assuring the need to adopt such an amendment. The fact is that information in the languages of national minorities in Vojvodina is on the Radiotelevision of Vojvodina at an extremely high level. As you said, the Vojvodina Radio Television broadcasts its programme in 10 languages of national minorities, but I must also remind you that not all national minorities live in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but live in the territory of all Serbia and I want to ask you – why, in that case, the RTS, which is allegedly the public service of all citizens, does not broadcast a single minute of program in Bosnian? What about the redecoration in the Bosnian language of RTS? When it comes to co-financing, which you mentioned by the Ministry of Media, in the languages of the national minorities, I would like to ask you – what about the co-financing of the Sandzak newspapers as the only printed paper in the Bosnian language that has not been released for three years because of the co-financing by the ministry, so that Bosniaks today have neither one nor one printed, nor information in electronic media in their Bosnian native language, so I would like to hear what the minister of the arguments has to say on these facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30933	Minister Tasovac has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30934	So, I'll just draw your attention that already under the new rules 60 local self-government has already conducted competitions on project co-financing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30935	The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30936	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Tasovac, you know what, Mr Tasovac, a year ago you passed one law and after a year you unscheduledly walked into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to change the law in terms of -- give me three more months I'll do it, I wasn't capable, I didn't have good co-operation with local self-government, I didn't do it in a year, and now I'll do it in three summer months. Mr. Tasovac, even if you rest in Serbia, you will not do it in the next three months quality, it is shown from everything that has happened in the previous year. This means that a tycoon privatisation of some media is being prepared, a TV house has been mentioned to you, which means something to you, as a government, as a ruling coalition, perhaps some other media around Serbia, the other media will be shut down. So, you have a very clear strategy, only one who doesn't, doesn't see it, which is that two-thirds or more of the media shut down, which is not interesting to you politically, to put part of the media under the hat of your pulns and to hold the national service under your cap and you closed the media scene in Serbia for all the coming years and did, of course, what your predecessor did in the 1990s, who was the minister of information, and you do it in a very solid way, of course, not alone but with the patronate of the Prime Minister. Mr. Minister, I asked you, on behalf of the Turnover, to give a new deadline with this amendment, so, for a year, to put in an evaluation provision, which you did not want to install in the previous law, or to submit a year's report on what you did, to see how this privatisation was going, what happened to the broadcasting of programmes in the languages of national minorities. Here, I'm going to give you an example, last week of the City of Novi Sad Assembly, out of the work of KIS, Kisac, who has a Radio "Kissac" and broadcasts the program in Slovak, threw out the work of broadcasting the radio program. So one radio in minority language is shutting down. I know it because I live in the area and I know it. What happens in other parts? Mr. Imamovic said as -- it's great in Vojvodina, there are languages in 10 minority languages. That's right, in part. However, Mr. Tasovac, were you almost on the TV Vojvodina? That's where the chair hasn't been bought in the last 15 years. The programme is being broadcast from an rented building, there is a collapsed building, on the Sremska side, Novi Sad, from NATO bombing in 1999, and these languages of national minorities, i.e. redistributions in the languages of national minorities from one very difficult conditions, as the programme is eventually broadcast in the Serbian newsroom of Vojvodina. Yesterday I was a guest, Mr. Tasovac, TV K in Serbian, in Pristina. There are 10 times better conditions than the conditions of work on TV Vojvodina, and it is not an honor to our Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I asked my own time question - what will happen to the Vojvodine TV, will you give them the funds, will they build the building? I got one vague answer. Mr. Tasovac, extend this deadline, form a quality team to deal with this issue. This isn't a market tomato sale, this isn't an egg sale at the market, this is a shut-down of the media that's been functioning for decades. Dedicate to this, include national minority councils, include local self-government. Of course, some European standards should be respected, but we are far away from European standards in many areas. Accept the amendments that you accept that in a year you'll report what you've done, make a move. Mr. Tasovac, I see you coming from another world, not a world to which the other ministers belong. You've finished, right, the state college, got a degree in a higher school facility, you have credibility, Mr. Tasovac, don't take advantage of these curtailing political standards that you've been set up with. Consult all interested factors, don't break over your knee, you won't do anything for the next three months. Give a longer deadline, include all the factors in this process, make a solid solution for everyone to be satisfied with, and employees in these TVs and radio stations. I'm asking you, let's say, what about the list of "Newsad's Log"? He's also about to be shut down because no one cares about him. What will happen to the employees and will that list, which has been released for 70, 80 years under this name, be extinguished? Mr. Tasovac, the situation in the media isn't good, as far as I can tell. Dedicate to this, don't let generations behind you talk about Mr. Tasovac's ministry as one period in which the free media in Serbia disappeared. Mr. Tasovac, I don't expect that from you. I expect everything else, and that's to try to organize the Ministry in such a way that this doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30937	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30938	Your Honor, first of all, I want to tell you that I really disagree with the fact that I walked non-chalantly into the assembly, that's the first thing. On the other hand, I agree with you that I have credibility, and that is why I will answer you specifically to your proposal to extend the deadline. I remind you that the Information Act, which was adopted in 2003, envisioned the privatisation to be completed by 2007. You mentioned that the tv, and I'm going to tell you that now, for the first time, the Public Service Act is fully equal to the role of the public service RTS and RTS. Also, about how co-operation with tv is, I think it's best that people from tv talk about it, not that I speak for them. As far as the number of media in Serbia is concerned, I will remind again that we have 1447 public messages, 110 TV stations, 350 radio stations. We also need to see realistically how much our market is, how much economically it can withstand the number of media. So it just seems to me that, yes, we are now moving the deadline, July 1st is no longer the deadline for ending the state's process of exiting the ownership structure of the media, July 1st is simply the time limit for the process to begin and that deadline will be completed by October 31st.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30939	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30940	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I don't think this amendment should be accepted. The previous speaker did not come to the congregation yesterday. So, he's a multi-seat MP, he was an MP for one party, another party, third party, now as far as I can see, he's a member of the NGO, but it doesn't amnest him out of responsibility that this process didn't happen until 2007, when they were supposed to do it. All they didn't do at the time they were supposed to do was fall for someone else to do it and have to do it. The explanation of the previous proposal was at the limit of insult. He excluded one minister and said – you are not like other ministers, you do not belong to the world, you have graduated from the state college, etc. In a certain way, he tried to disqualify all other ministers in the government and give the minister present an advantage. I don't think this amendment should be accepted, given that the amendment promoter wasn't a bit convincing. He suggested that the job that was due to be completed in 2007, be delayed until 2016. I think it's unacceptable for the simple reason he didn't do anything while they were in power, until the party of the former regime did nothing. Now he suddenly remembered that he was members of an NGO and that it should be extended for some media freedoms or I don't know what else. The argument was at the edge of the offensive, left to begin swearing as some previous MPs or MPs and then being a complete experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30941	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30942	Thank you, President. I'll relate to what the minister said. Yes, Minister, you mentioned the number of media and, let me say, the economic power of the Republic of Serbia and whether it needs that number of media. Mr. Tasovac, it's not just you. It is a guilty system that has allowed so many media outlets, which you are now talking about, to broadcast radio and television programs from wild locations, wild radios and TV stations. Those who are obliged to prevent it, to enable people who are legally working and paying all taxes to do so normally, they don't. You seal their equipment in the morning, they go in through the window and you burn that equipment. Isn't that right, Mr. Tasovac? What have you done with competent organisations, or institutions that the state has done, to prevent this from being introduced into legal flows by the broadcasting process of radio and television? Make it possible for those who are legally working so that they can live off that work. Generally, media are set up such conditions in which they are difficult to survive economically. You're probably talking to the private media owners. They just can't make ends meet. There are high obligations, and there is competition in the black market, black TV and radio markets. Do something on that plan, and here you do a good analysis, so that in some solid time we can have a better situation in this area, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30943	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am reporting for the amendment because I still disagree with the explanation of my fellow promoters, given the history of media freedoms that were from a few years ago. Therefore, it is not disputed that wild predatory privatisation created economic operators, or, as our people say, tycoons that have a huge amount of capital. All that has become ours is theirs, this wild predatory privatisation has been acquired by huge funds that have been invested in the media in a certain way, whether they were owners or co-owners. Up until about a year ago, the media were agents of capital, the kind of capital that was created in this kind of privatisation. In such a situation that we have found, where opposition parties have, I think, had only Copernicus and Focus, so by 2012, there were absolutely no media freedoms. It mainly conveyed a capital message that generated this message in order to retain the political forces that led it to increase their capital acquired in the 1990s by smuggling cigarettes, oil, etc. At a time when everyone suffered, some became rich and turned this financial wealth into a significantly greater wealth in privatisation. They've come up with huge assets on real estate, etc. Of course, some of them went into the media and became secret or public media owners, and all the others, through advertising, tried to push their message through the media and thus create the political structure, the political forces that will rule this country. So, in this way they held power from 2000 to 2012, while in 2015, as we can see, the government on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, is not opposition forces. Now someone turns around in a few days and says, "I'm no longer who I was," I'm now advocating absolute media freedoms that didn't exist when, together with others, it belonged to a party of the former regime. It is unacceptable for me that someone who participated in the absolute asphyxiation of media freedoms, in the ways I have already described, where opposition parties were absolutely declared, it is unacceptable that such an explanation that we heard from the previous speaker was transmitted in this Assembly, since from 2000 to 2012, and Gods on the territory of Vojvodina by 2015 did not want to do anything about it while they were in power. Now suddenly there's a turnaround, so now they've got a completely different opinion. It wasn't in their time that there wasn't a newsman's death. Mr Pantic even died in Jagodina in 2001, as I recall. So much for the media freedoms that they advocated while holding power, and now they suddenly remembered that the media was not free, at a time when the media was largely free from the pressures of political parties, and this law was passed precisely because local and state-level political parties couldn't put pressure on the media, in the way they did it together with political tycoons while they were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30945	Thank you. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30946	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in agreement with fellow MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted this amendment. It is intended to propose that Article 1 paragraph 9 is amended as follows: following Article 10, new positions 11-14 are added, which reads: "If a public call for the sale of the issuer's capital under Article 1 of this Article is not published by 1 July 2016, the sale of capital shall be suspended, and the capital of the media issuer is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation, within 30 days of the date of the proceedings being suspended. If a public call is issued within the time limit provided for in Article 11 and the issuer's capital is not sold until 31 October 2016, the capital sale procedure is suspended and the media issuer's capital is privatised by transfer of shares to non-refundable employees within 30 days of the date on which the procedure is suspended. The employees of Articles 11 and 12 of this article shall exercise the right to transfer actions without compensation, regardless of whether they have exercised the right to free action in previous privatisation procedures. The government shall adopt an act that is closer to regulating the transfer of actions to employees without compensation." I believe that the deadline set by the draft law is inappropriately short, does not guarantee quality privatisation, and I propose that the deadline be extended by one year, in order to allow the privatisation of the media to be implemented and end in a good way. In addition, the draft law provides that if a public call is not issued within a specified time limit, or if the issuer’s capital is not sold by a certain time limit, the sale of capital is suspended and the media issuer’s capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. However, the bill does not set a deadline for the transfer of actions to employees, which can lead to legal uncertainty for both the media and the media. For those reasons, I have also submitted this part of the amendment. In addition, I think it is necessary to stress in particular that all employees in the media who are privatised have the right to free action, including those free actions that they have acquired in the early privatisation of other businesses. Of course, the amendment was not accepted, with the reason that the solutions in the bill were given precisely for the reason to allow the privatization of the media to be implemented and ended in a quality way. It should be borne in mind that the media privatisation process began in 2003, by adopting the Public Information Act and that there was enough time for the process to end. As many other processes in our society have run slower than we expected, and this process has run slower. The ruling majority has had three years to speed up the process, however, it is not so accelerated that it can now end in a quality way in a short time. That's why we suggested that the deadline be extended by a year. Lately, we've been getting more and more changes and amendments to the deadlines for certain processes, so this wouldn't be an exception, and I don't think it would violate the procedures that are under way. He further says in his explanation – the free division of actions to employees will be regulated in accordance with the act adopted by the Government, as provided for in Article 1. The bill, which will also be governed by the procedure considered respected when sharing free actions, will also condition deadlines for ending free division of actions. Given that the Government is very often for various reasons, I do not say that they are not often and objective, late with the adoption of sublegal acts, we have proposed, or I in this amendment, that exactly the deadlines in which this division of free actions will be carried out. In two terms, we have an estimated 30 days from the date on which the procedure is suspended, or if there is no sale. So we think that you should reconsider and accept this supplement, because the question is when will the government pass this sublaw. Furthermore, it says in its explanation – the right to free division of shares is governed by the Privatisation Act. Media employees cannot be put in a more favourable position than employees of other business entities, when it comes to free division of actions. I'm familiar with what the Privatisation Act provides, but this is kind of a lex specialis compared to the Privatisation Act. It's about privatising the media and it wouldn't be the first or the last case if lex specialis predicted other conditions than the law that regulates the whole matter. I have submitted this amendment, and I suggest you reconsider this because we believe that there may be only one, two or three employees in some media who will have the right to action, or that there may be no one who has not achieved the right to free action so far. Then what happens? There will be media closure and it will not be a good situation at all, and on the other hand, these media employees have contributed to the survival of the media and the quality of their work depends on the value of the media now. I think that this way they should be rewarded now in the action-sharing process, and if they did well and if the media has a greater value that they should also get action and participate in the distribution. In addition, entities in various other companies that were privatised earlier, employees had a significant share in the share of actions, and were then in an unequal position to remain citizens. I don't think that this puts other citizens in an unequal position, because they didn't make a contribution to the construction of that entity, the media, and therefore they don't have the same rights of participation in the distribution of free shares, that there is indeed an exception here, because the media is something that is public, which is available to everyone. Making a reputation and the quality of a medium is not a small thing. That's why employees should be rewarded. I see that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has assessed that this amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system, without justification. I want to know - why? Is it because it doesn't comply with the Privatization Act? I just explained that I think this is a lex specialis and that it can make an exception to the Privatization Act. I'd like to get an answer. I urge you to reconsider the proposals set out in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30947	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30948	I have to tell you, you're talking about a free share of action here, however, free division of action is not the goal, it comes only after two rounds of auctions and it seems to me that we are just the good part and from the arguments that you have made possible to share free shares to employees in those media. Don't forget that in other business entities, only 15% share shares and 100% shares here. But because of other laws, it is not possible to bring everyone else into an unequal position so that those who have already taken some action can take another one. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30949	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Here you go, Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30950	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Aida Corovic and I have tabled an amendment suggesting that one of the positions added to Article 1 be changed is Article 11. We propose that this position now reads: “If a public call for the sale of the issuer’s capital under Article 1 of this article is not published by 1 July 2015 or if the media publisher delivers a request for transfer of shares without compensation to the Agency by 1 July 2015, the media issuer’s capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. “ In our argument, we have stated that the reason why we want this attitude to be rephrased is because we believe that, as suggested, those media who in time deliver all necessary documentation will actually be in a more unfavourable position than those media who have not done so because they will have to wait for the failed capital sales procedures to pass. You answer in your explanation, which is why you feel that the amendment should not be accepted. The amendment is not accepted because it is an interest of the media publisher to sell the media on the market and to receive adequate cash compensation for it. In doing so, you ignore the fact that the reason why we extend the validity of this law and extend the deadline for privatising the media is because the media did not do what was expected of them, so you even went one step further when you said that the application of the law was obstructed by the media that did not provide the necessary documentation and local self-government, and thus the local self-government and these media are run by the people of the SNS. So, our fear is that, as with all other things, it will happen again, that those who have fulfilled their obligation in time will be in a more unfavorable position than those who do not fulfil their obligations because, as we see, you have not yet predicted any consequences for those who do not do so, under the pretext that only this time will, but here, from the next time on, it will be different. Don't be angry, Mr. Minister, but we haven't heard from you, except for some kind of flat rate, that there may be some responsibility for you. We haven't heard who's going to suffer any consequences because these things aren't arranged. You're still avoiding the obligation to establish any responsibility, and now we need to trust you on the word that this time, well, everything is going to be different, and we've seen how many laws there have been and what's a much bigger problem, no one has ever been responsible. So, we believe that as it is formulated, those who have fulfilled their obligation in accordance with the law previously will be in a more unfavourable position than those who have not fulfilled that obligation. We ask you to consider the opinion of the Government that you have given and to accept this amendment. If that is not the case, then we invite the MPs to support our amendment in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30951	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30952	Thank you, President. In the amendment, we asked for Article 142 to change the position of 12 and after the first sentence to add a second sentence, which will read: "Extremely, if a public call is made from the date of entry into force of this law, the media publisher may submit a reasoned request to the Agency for Transfer of Action without compensation, in which case its total capital is privatised by transfer of shares to employees without compensation. “ We explained that the amendment allows employees in the media, whose publishers respected deadlines and in time started privatisation, to be in an even position compared to those who did not respect the deadlines and did not even start privatisation and did not provide the particular documentation required of them. The amendments to the Law stipulate that the media that are not on time for the Privatisation Agency should be suspended by 1 July 2015, the privatisation process and that they are privatised by the transfer of actions to employees without compensation. The media that submitted the paperwork in time will be offered for sale. Only when these two attempts by 31 October 2015 are not interested in their purchase will employees be able to receive capital without compensation, which is what we believe to be placed in an unequal position. The amendment provides equal opportunities for employees in the privatisation media by determining that those privatisation entities that have made a public call by the date of the amendment of the law can also submit an appropriate request to the Agency for transfer of actions to non-refundable employees by 10 July 2015. So, once again consider the possibility that those who are already in the privatisation process, who have submitted the documentation, invested that particular money to obtain the documentation to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30953	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30954	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. So, Mr. Minister, the honourable citizens of Serbia, by this amendment, we wanted to extend the deadlines by amending the law, and in order to make it clear to all, and especially to the citizens of Nis whom I address directly, I will read this position on the 9th and 10th and explain the essence of our proposal. So - If the public call for the sale of the issuer’s capital referred to in Article 1 is not published by 1 July 2015, the sale of capital is suspended, and the capital of the media issuer is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. If a public call is issued within the time limit provided for in Article 11 and the issuer's capital is not sold until 31 October 2015, the capital sale process is suspended and the media issuer's capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. Mr. Minister, the Ministry and the Government have rejected this amendment as usual and all the amendments we have submitted, with a fundamental goal of giving the opportunity to give the legal obligation to privatise the media owned by local self-government validly, to give the opportunity to keep Serbia, Serbia's citizens, especially under Sava and Danube, who are losing local public votes in a valid manner informing about everything that is important to them, for their existence, for their environment. We are responsible for the reason that the amendment is not accepted because the solutions in the bill were given precisely for the purpose of allowing the privatisation of the media to be implemented and ended in a quality way and should be kept in mind that the process of privatising the media began in 2003, by adopting the Public Information Act and that there was enough time for the process to end. I remind you that the law was passed in 2014, with a deadline of 31.6, to be completed. For the sake of truth and reminders of Serbian citizens, by April 2015, 60 media out of 73 submitted valid documentation, but by amending the Privatisation Act, which we adopted in May, if you remember that provision that all institutions and everything that goes on privatisation were obliged to bring a new assessment of fair capital to the conclusion of 31 December 2014, and the Ministry found the basis for an extension of the deadline, i.e. In order to absorb his inability to do something in the past year and order the public media to do a new assessment of the capital within a month. In the principle debate, we heard that by that famous June 19th, 14 or 17 was, 14 local public media had submitted complete documentation, that 20 had announced, and that the rest had failed to carry out a capital assessment by 73. And, according to this law that you are going to vote on, all the rest means from 34 to 73 goes automatically into the division of actions or deletes from the records because we see that all of them, and that amendment relating to the division of actions where we asked that all employees of public, local media have the right to free action, that under the law that deals with this topic, those who have received the actions of Telecom, NIS and that this will be in fact every tenth employee in the local and public media, and that other actions will go to the Privatisation Agency, the Privatisation Agency under the letter of the law has no right to be the owner. Is that so? And it's going to go out. Therefore, we have suggested that this deadline from 2015 should be replaced by the words of 2016, and this would be so, and this would be to say that our amendment has been accepted - unless the public call for the sale of the issuer's capital under Article 1 of this article is published by 1 July 2015, and we say by 1 July 2016, the process of selling capital is suspended, and the capital of the media publisher is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. We think it's correct and it's fair. I don't see how the ministry, and I'm going to ask, and I hope the minister will say how many local public media outlets have so far handed over to the Agency valid documentation, how many of them are going to be essentially what we're talking about, how many of them are going to go into privatisation, and how many are going to be immediately under the pressure of the transfer of actions to employees, or the Agency, that is, how many of them will be shut down. I will remind you that the bill clearly states – the ban on financing of public income from the 1st article's position does not apply to public services at national and regional level, an institution formed to exercise public information rights in the territory of the Kosovo AP and Metohija and to media whose founding rights have been transferred to the national councils of national minorities until the entry into force of this law. The whole essence of our proposal, if you remember those amendments to the Law on Informing Electronic Media, which she gave to Serbia together, that I will repeat for the first time a thousand and first time that the rights and obligations of Serbian citizens are equalised throughout the territory. By adopting such a law and shutting down local public services, we will now have from the budget of 1 January 2016 everyone is paying a TV subscription, i.e. the fee they call it. It is a commitment that all Serbian citizens will fulfil, but we will not have the same rights, because we will not have the right to represent in public service, RTS as all citizens from Belgrade and as citizens of Vojvodina who have RT Vojvodina. I am not against the citizens of Belgrade being informed. I'm not against Vojvodina having RT Vojvodina, but I ask why Serbia or Serbia under Sava and Danube has no right to do so. Why doesn't he have the right to normal information and environments we live in? Why do we have to wait 15 seconds for the chronicles of the region and usually black chronicles? Why don't we have a public service that deals with our daily lives? And that's why we suggested that this deadline be extended for a year, because since it could have been extended for four months, I don't see what would happen if we extended it for a year and gave it a chance to find another way for all citizens to have the same public information rights. I'll ask Mr. Secretary a question. Why isn't RTS, since it is, as you say, only 7% in Serbia's media sky of these 73 local public services, why isn't it within RTS? Why didn't he take over RTS to organize how best he could do it so we could have local information at the local level? What's the problem? Who's having trouble with local information at the local level? Who's bothering me? Is the problem that he can't be owned by local self-government? Well, well, it's not a problem. Let it be owned by RTS. Make sure it's funded from the subscription. Why can TV have 70% of the subscription to stay on TV and 30% go to RTS, and why don't we, say, in Nis we don't have a local public service under the letter of this law and all the subscription goes to RTS? Well, why doesn't RTS take TV Nis and we have a nice essence that needs citizens of Serbia, that we have information at local level. What's the problem? I just remind the Nis MPs once again that we have an obligation, we all signed a petition for a local public service. We have a decision from the City Assembly, a unanimous, identical parliamentary majority in this House and in the Assembly to support local public service. I ask you, and in the principle debate, it pained the story that MPs of the parliamentary majority also supported this proposal to support our amendment and give local public service from Nis a chance to survive, but not as an institution, not as someone who will keep the job, but as information that is very important to the citizens of Nis and who will be lost since September of the month. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30955	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30956	We had this debate a year ago and now. I'm just asking you not to use the term local public services because the law defined two public services. One is the Radio Television of Serbia, the other is the Radio Television of Vojvodina and, instead of direct budget financing that after 70 years goes into the history of the state, will in future co-finance those content that is in the public interest through public competitions. And that is the interest of local self-government, precisely to recognise these specificities, and I also think it is the obligation of RTS, to make every effort in accordance with its capacities to cover the full content of what satisfies absolutely all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30957	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30958	Thank you. Mr. Minister, let me remind you. You remind me of the letter of the law that says that – there is RTS and RTV, and I remind you that this is the Republic's parliament that makes the laws. So we're the ones writing and I'm asking to change the law. As a MP, I represent the interests of my fellow citizens and ask that the law be changed. Now you explain it to me. What's the difference between Saturday's TV correspondence and, say, low television? In what way will TV be able to have a part that applies to life and what interests the citizens of Subotica, and we in Nis will not have it either in the King, or in Capac, or in Chačka, or in Leskovec? Well, ministers from September of the month won't have a weather forecast where we live. He can't make it, not because we won't, he can't make it. There's not enough, it's not 36 hours, 24 hours. I insist that the right we have, that what we have in our local environments remains in line with the law. Why are we in Nis projecting local information and paying extra from the city budget? Why don't we have the same rights as we do in Vojvodina, like they have in Belgrade? Well, 85% of RTS deals with Belgrade's problem and normally, the biggest city, everything happens here. Surely from Nis he will not transfer any information about the opera, because there is no opera in Nis, there is in Belgrade. I should ask you the same thing, why is there no opera in Nis? I guess there's a music world there, too, or in Chačka, Krushevac, Mladenovac, wherever. Why don't we have the same rights, that's what I'm asking you? I just want to represent the interests of the citizens who sent me to this Parliament, and I am deeply convinced that all MPs are looking to protect the interests of their local communities. I deeply believe that it will support our amendments to give our local public services a chance to survive. You didn't answer me how many of these 14 safe to 73 filed. How much will be shut down and how much will be in the privatisation. You didn't answer that. There were 20 in the announcement. It's not safe. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't. And that's why those who haven't been able to complete that paperwork for the second time in a month, not their fault, go to the era. Why? Why? Because the protocol wasn't done, what does the Privatisation Agency say? Well, that's not the problem with local media. It's really not a problem for local media. It's the problem of an institution formed by a state that hasn't done its job. Let's look ourselves in the eye and say what the problem is. Why do they have to put up with the local environments now? I expect one of you to support this proposal, because I deeply believe that we feel the same way. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30959	Minister, did you get that? No, I don't. Members of the 2nd amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Minister Tasovac, has happened to me today something incredible. One paradox. Now I'm going to try to explain that picture of a paradox to the MPs here. In fact, we explained this amendment to Minister Tasovac on Article 2 by saying that by adopting this bill, the minister would be wrong about the rule of law. The minister wrote to us in an explanation that he did not understand how this would be wrong, and then verbally, today in the debate, the minister explained in what way he would be wrong about the rule of law and instead of explaining why he was wrong about the rule of law, the minister decided to defend himself by the silence, the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, and on behalf of the minister, this member and this law, on behalf of the Minister of Culture, respected gentlemen, defended Mr Marijan Rističević. For me, gentlemen, it's a truly amazing paradox, Minister Tasovac. Neither Mr Babic nor Mr Markovic nor Mr Nikolic nor Mr Kovacevic reported from the SNS, but the culture minister, respected gentlemen. In our debate here, defends MP Marijan Risticevic. I must say, gentlemen, that this is an unprecedented paradox for me, and I did not expect it to be possible for something like this to happen in our National Assembly, and I did not trust the ministers, that you too would allow the Ministry of Culture, to defend the position of the Ministry of Culture, in the National Assembly, a national MP, named Marijan Risticevic. So I ask you, Mr. Tasovac, to respond to our oral explanation that this bill will violate the rule of law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30961	First, since in the same text... I apologize, Mr. Babic, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30962	Madam President, so far we have held a debate that was correct and that was attended by MPs, which they have the right to, in which Minister Tasovac participated. This is one, something we just heard from colleagues Pavicevic, the reason why the SNS against these famous amendments is "expunged", because behind these white papers and "wipes" members, there is no other argument, except for the personal calling of the MPs and the MPs of the SNS and the reasons for further controversy. Not one, and in two minutes I listened carefully to my colleague Pavicevic, not one single argument nor leaned, not one single word on the proposed amendment. I know that colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic called us fashions and no one responded, and now they move on. Now they say that counterpart Risticevic does not have the right to speak. That's outrageous. This right to speak both of my counterparts Risticevic and I and anyone in the National Assembly did not give us colleagues Pavicevic, but gave us citizens of the Republic of Serbia, elections in the elections. Whether it suits you or doesn't answer, it's more of a question for you alone. But do not insult the congregation by forbidding the Messengers of the people to speak. Do not insult the National Assembly by calling us fashions. Do not insult the National Assembly by hiding behind a series of amendments for which you have no argument and that is bad and it is the humiliation of this sanctuary of democracy in this way and in such debates. We will wait patiently, we will patiently follow all this, but to humiliate us, we will not allow you to humiliate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30963	Article 107, is that right? (Zoran Babic, from the post: Article 107. No voting alone. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, Minister Tasovac and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, were injured a short time ago by a member of 108. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, which defines order in the session of the National Assembly. The order at the session, Honored President Gojkovic, implies that when one MP in this case, Mr Babic, reports a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 103 and gets the right to say, then this MP does not have the right, Mrs Gojkovic, to replicate another MP, which Mr Babic has just done, and thus has given you respected presidents in leading this session of the National Assembly. Your obligation was, Madam President, I think, to point out to Mr Babić that he is abused by the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, and if Mrs Gojkovic, Mr Babic, continues to commit this abuse to give him a warning measure based on article 109, as often the opposition MPs do to the vice-president of the National Assembly, Mr Becic. So you missed, Mrs. Gojkovic, to intervene because Mr. Babic had just misused one right that he had, and that is the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please honor the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, to correct this mistake now, to tell all the MPs, ministers and our guests from the Ministry that it is true that Mr Babic has misused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to warn him that he must not do so, in order for the respected Mrs Gojkovic to have order at the meeting of the National Assembly. If we have a turn, it's a presumption of good dialogue and debate on the bill's proposals, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30965	You called in an article in 108 and connected with that article 103. I think you meant 104, but good. Article 107, which was called upon by the previous MP, allows him to explain the meaning of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, which is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but if you consider that he is... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, as the amendment was submitted to article 2 in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30966	That's right. The amendment to Article 2 is the continuation of the amendment to Article 1 in which Mr Pavicevic and I pointed to the unnecessary adoption of this law, the change he offers. I repeat once again, it is only a matter of ineffectiveness of law enforcement, and the ineffectiveness of law enforcement is at fault by the government. That means the Serbian government, that means the competent ministry. I expect the minister, as my colleague said, not to defend himself by silence, but to tell us who obstructed law enforcement, so that we can see who's guilty, not in general some somewhere, but names and last names? Is this some kind of organized action or is there some sort of individual idea? Is there some organized group that I don't want to say, or are those individuals who happened to be gathered around the same idea? Let me repeat once again -- in most of the local authorities you are accusing here, the same majority that is in this House is in power. With these changes, you have a problem with budget rebalances, i.e. the source of funding for these media. It is impossible for this change to change the conditions of funding for local media without budget rebalances, because local self-government must not use funds from other sources of budget for this purpose. The question is, is there any source of funding in these local self-governments where one part of the funds can be removed and transferred for these purposes? We have an example of 500 and some companies that aren't media houses, and I'm going to use five minutes of those, 500 and some of them had the same deadline. That's where some people do the same thing. These people have families, and they haven't received salaries in an adequate way for a very long time and in an adequate time. They were somehow responsible for the existence of these companies. Why should they be punished again for being unsupervised, so that their businesses go bankrupt on July 1st and only media services are protected? Finally, these media, not media services, have an adequate solution, which is that after this deadline media employees become owners. It just needs to change the interpretation that I realized, that those who took action from the non-existent Telecom, or non-existent Telecom actions, with the absence of 1,000 euros, are allowed to become co-owners. I think if the law was to be passed that would change, it should have been passed. Of course, it will not guarantee the independence of these media and that employees in these media will become co-owners after not showing the desire to be privatized, collective co-owners. This does not mean that they will succeed in resisting pressures, whether large capital, whether political powers in their midst. We have pressure on the media not only in companies whose founders are local self-government, but we have pressure on the media in private media, and that's clear. These pressures are different, from specific threats to poles and other forms of antique and modern weapons, to threats that are actually brought down to offers, which is to excuse or delay the payment of taxes, to forgive crimes and traffic offences with a fatal outcome, to offer places for ambassadors or for some cultural attachés, which we have the same example, to offer places in the state administration, as assistant advisors, head of commission to investigate this and that, and that is the same kind of pressure. Not to mention that there are media that are a disgrace to this society, and that get ads from the authorities of local self-government or state and, of course, fill their budget and create conditions to continue to act completely negatively. I don't want to tell you who all the media are, we know what they're called. This extension for a few months, three, four, what it is, plus if we consider summer break, I'd really like to see that miracle worker who can solve what hasn't been solved by July 1st to be resolved by November 1. Who are these new ones interested in privatising the media that have not already begun and shown interest, unless it is the time left for some activities that cannot be called legal events to happen, and to further lower the value of these media and make one better choice for future people, i.e. companies that will privatise the media? This does not serve the honor of the Ministry, nor of you present here, and you have the opportunity to save your honor by telling us who made you or who created the environment where you had to pass this bill, to tell us who these people are by name and last name. Is it the Prime Minister or is it some black grass councilman or someone in between on that entire list? If you can't tell us, you're resigning because of you, not because of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30967	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law from Nis, who are currently following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30968	Dear Docent Pavicevic and Honourable MP Zivkovic, I just need to explain one thing to you. So, I am not defending myself here, because I consider debate in the Assembly a privilege to be able to discuss the amendments that MPs have tabled in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information. So I'm going to answer your amendments specifically. So the amendment is not accepted or, if you wish, the amendment is not accepted. I think that's quite enough, considering the amendment you've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30969	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Zivkovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30970	That was on your way to being funny. It's been so long. But it is not the relationship of a minister, even if a minister who, unshallantly, said a colleague, comes to the Assembly to speak in such a way to the lawmakers who propose the law, where they ask that all that is fatal to the area defined by this law be deleted. We suggested, you know, a thousand and some amendments. They were different, they were halfway across, that's where we think we can fix the law with amendments. There was a law where we didn't give amendments, because the laws were good and we always wrote the amendment-- it's deleted where there's no repairs, where the law is too bad to be fixed anything. For someone who deals with culture, that culture would have to apply to personal behavior. But he would have to know that such a way of writing amendments, that is, the relationship to laws, was founded in decades and centuries behind us, in parliaments that have a longer tradition than this beautiful building. Such an attempt at wit may seem ridiculous, but that's not the answer to the question I asked you. I expect you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30971	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30972	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I honestly did not intend to report on this amendment at first, but the explanation and manner of explaining the proposings of this amendment offered me to engage in the debate. So, I propose that this amendment be rejected specifically, so the amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law, and I join the position that the minister has just presented, as well as the opinion of the Government that has given us in the form of an argument. So this and similar explanation of the amendment would be very meaningful if it did not come from whoever is most directly responsible for the situation in the media that we have today, he, or at least the list on whose list he was elected, or the party on whose list he was elected. I think we should stop the practice some MPs practice here, among other things, the MPs who have proposed this amendment, so we act like we've slept through the last 15 years and now walk into the assembly. A few years ago, someone used that darkness well - walked into the congregation. Now, that's how they behave, and now they're giving us some sermons here, so they're using some expressions, I don't know, there's been some pressure in the media, I don't know, censorship, violation of rights, etc. That's what the MP is telling us who introduced the state of emergency, which is synonym for censorship and violation of the law. So for all these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30973	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, Minister Tasovac, distinguished guests, respected students and students of the Faculty of Law in Nis and respected Professor Milisavljevic, Minister Tasovac told us here that when he comes to the Assembly, he does not come to defend anything. Minister Tasovac, when you do not defend the Bill as Minister of Culture, then we remain to listen to Mr Risticevic to defend the draft laws that come here in the Assembly on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic, gentlemen. Minister, to remind you, this is for me, and I believe for all these gentlemen who are our guests today an incredible paradox, that on your behalf, on behalf of the Government, the proposal from the Ministry of Culture is being defended by MP Marijan Risticevic. If you don't want to defend, Minister Tasovac, here, there's whoever will, we saw today. Second thing, gentlemen, I am pleased that students and students of the Faculty of Law are present here in Nis, because it is one of the great principles that lawyers have been dealing with since the first year of study, which is the principle of rule of law, respected gentlemen, which is defined by Article 3 of our Constitution, as our most important principle in our constitutional system. I see they're nodding heads and students and students. I see pleasure here, Minister Tasovac. You're the only one here who won't understand that this bill drastically violates our greatest principle in our constitutional system, and not only ours, but it's the greatest principle in every modern constitutional democracy, which is the principle of rule of law. I have tried, Minister Tasovac, to point out to you one aspect of the violation of the rule of law, which is the aspect which implies that we study something here for the citizens, we tell the citizens – something must be fulfilled by then and then, you say it confidently – it will have to be fulfilled by then and then. Not a full year later, you come here and say, "We can't meet until then and then." In order for us, Minister Tasovac, to have faith in what we are doing here, it was necessary, in accordance with another principle, very important in politics, respected gentlemen, which is the principle of ethics of responsibility, in the opening letter here on Friday, to first say what MP Zoran Zivkovic reminded you of – who, Mr Tasovac, is responsible for the deadlines set by the law we adopted on 2 August 2014? To measure some results, Minister Tasovac, so when you are here in the first few sentences of the list responsible, then we have the feeling and one knowledge that we are talking to one responsible person, who, respecting the principle of ethics and responsibility, declares who is responsible for the unofficial. If you'd done it, Minister, then it would have been, I think, logical for us to get into a debate about whether the arguments that you offered to extend the deadlines were really good. Two things are missing like this, Minister Tasovac. First of all, there is no respect for what the constitutional principles are, and the Constitution must be respected. Here are the students and students of law school. Well, I'd be embarrassed in front of them, and if they weren't here today, if I were here to participate in something that means violating the rule of law. The second thing you missed, and here, now may be a chance to fix, Minister Tasovac, to defend yourself and the Ministry and the Government, not by speaking to Marijan Rističević, but by speaking about who is responsible for the non-work. If we found out, then maybe we could accept this argument. Minister Tasovac, since you won't announce it, then in writing you tell us that you don't understand how the rule of law goes down, then I understand that this extension of deadlines is not a matter of some assessment that will really lead us to some general good, respect for the law, but that maybe it's part of some whim or misunderstanding or understanding that what happened on August 2nd was not well done. We then supported the bill and some of our amendments were accepted. I expect, Minister Tasovac, that even today, until the end of our debate, you will accept all five of our amendments, unless you now tell us the names and last names responsible for what something has been promised, and that this has not been fulfilled until today. Thank you, Minister Tasovac and the esteemed gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30975	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm surprised we have these five amendments and all five amendments to this political option can be given the same answer. In fact, these aren't amendments, this is an attempt to get the debate back to the principle and ask the question of the extension of the deadlines again, and under the rule of law. I'm sorry if you weren't at the hearing the other day, but that's what this is about, the government is extending these deadlines to give it a chance. The government gives one profession a chance to save itself. If the deadlines were respected, from 200 to 1000 journalists would remain on the street, and that is a message from this government, it is primarily a concern for people, a concern for employees and an attempt to once again give opportunity to those who have failed to carry out a capital assessment, to do so in the coming period. I'm not surprised that one part of this two is without corporals, that ideologically, has no sense for journalists, because political practice has long since shown me, but a miracle professor, someone who teaches political science, teaches me to probably future journalists. If that's a message to the students, that their senior colleagues, on behalf of the law and following the terms, need to stay on the street today, if that's a message from a professor, then it's good to hear it from the students of the Faculty of Law from Nis, to hear how teachers see their future if they find themselves in a similar situation tomorrow. It's a big thing that despite the laws, despite the deadlines she gave, she still has a feeling for people, because you once said, the people are state, and even journalists are some people and they deserve a piece of bread, a new chance, a new opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30977	I thank you, Mr. Krlic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, you signed up for the line. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Zivkovic, in Mr. Krlić's speech, only Mr. Pavicevic has room for replication, because in some ways he referred... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: he said I was someone who introduced to journalists an emergency. ) In addition to my best wishes, Mr. Zivkovic, to give the replica, I think only Mr. Pavicevic is right, since he is mentioned as a professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Tasovac, the honored guests of the ministry and the respected student and respected students of the Faculty of Law in Nis, are two things I now wish to announce in the replica to Mr. Krlic. First of all, gentlemen, just to let you know, I am now at the standstill at the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Belgrade. Why, dear gentlemen? Because I've concluded that it's impossible to do two things at the same time, and that means a serious approach. So, I've spent eight months here, working in parallel at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and I've seen that there's not enough time for both of us, and I've decided to only work at the National Assembly now, and I just want to let you know that I have a status at the Faculty of Political Sciences, because I'm not the kind of man who has the capacity to do more jobs, just one, and this legislative one in the National Assembly, gentlemen. Another thing, Mr. Becic, to hear Mr. Krlić, respected gentlemen, respect for the law is always a necessary criterion for assessing whether someone in their function and in politics is aimed at the common good. There are no other more important criteria than that criterion, gentlemen. Since ancient times, the theory of constitutionalism, which implies the restriction of power, which implies respect for the law, introduced that idea that only one who follows the law, who respects the law, has the right to call on it to be directed into its functioning towards the common good. I call on Minister Tasovac to adhere to the principles of rule of law and respect for the law, Mr Krlić, we all focus together on the common good here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30979	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Mirko Krlić, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30980	I must fully agree with Mr Pavicevic, it is indeed respect for the law of the apriora, and because of that or nevertheless, we have this debate today in order to give this law a chance to fully implement and that all those concerned by this law and who through this law have a new opportunity to get this opportunity. That's why this is law enforcement, and there's a congregation debate about it. This is where we can extend that deadline, and by the way, I totally don't understand the two archaics of the opposition. On the other hand, we are getting suggestions to extend the deadlines further, and you are in favour of respecting the deadlines given by the law. Please agree, we don't care, but we are very glad that the people of Serbia can see how the opposition works in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30981	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Since we regret that the students are deprived of your activities in college, I will give you the opportunity and the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, who you are chairing today's session, the Honorable Minister Tasovac and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, of course, these students and students, who are our guests, I had no right to give a lecture, no opportunity, but I hope there will be an opportunity, distinguished guests and guests from Nis. I have to intervene now for Mr. Mirko Krlic's last speech. It is true, gentlemen, that we here today also define the content of a bill and of what will become law, but gentlemen, Mr. Becic, to hear Mr. Krlic, we must not legalize irresponsibility. I hope we agree on that. On August 2nd, gentlemen, we've set some deadlines. From August 2nd to this day, it was a chance to do something with respect to the law and if we adopt this proposal today, which defends Minister Tasovac's National Assembly, it would mean, Mr Krlic and Mr Becic, that we are legalizing irresponsibility. Does this mean, gentlemen, if we extend the deadline until October 31st, then it is not done until October 31st, that the rule of law requires that we extend the rule of law until 1 April 2016 on 30 October, so that it is the respect of the law. That doesn't mean that, gentlemen. That is why we propose, Minister Tasovac, that before stating the bill, Mr Krlic, Minister Tasovac clearly says here who is responsible for the non-compliance with the deadlines that are legally defined, gentlemen. If we can't respect what the law says, what will we respect in our country, gentlemen? I also ask Mr. Krlic to reconsider this and Mr. Tasovec, especially since I see that his defender is no longer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30983	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Mirko Krlić, a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30984	Just for a little while. So young and retired. It's a big tragedy you don't have a chance to teach students. I hope you go back to university and defend everything that you just said. So, that you will always defend the chance, that you will defend the opportunity, that you will depend on the future journalists, and that much on you, because you are the heir of the great professors at that university, that you will know how to direct them, not following the law in this way you speak. You're talking about punishment. Obviously, you didn't want to hear the minister's arguments when he spoke about why the deadlines were over and why some media outlets didn't make an assessment of the capital. If we were interested, interested in how we live today in the media, especially local media and smaller environments, you would be very clear about all this, and you would vote for an extension of the deadline yourself, if you only had a chance to find out what the conditions are today, the media that are still public service, which are left without capital, who have no personal resources, have out-of-date equipment and everything else, if I didn't tell you about it, I've been in it for a long time and I know the complete situation. Believe me, this deadline is necessary, I agree that there is always a need to advocate responsibility here I have no different opinion from you, but there are many, many objective things that have happened as subjective, so really this deadline is very necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30985	I thank Mr. Krlic, I also hope that the distinguished professor with new experience will return very quickly and work at the university. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30986	Dear Messenger, thank you for speaking correctly in your last address. I am here defending the amendment and supplementation of the Law, so I am defending the proposal of the Ministry of Culture and Information, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we brought before the Assembly, and I am not defending myself. That's all I wanted to explain to you, that's one thing. On the other hand, we had a complete story during the debate two days ago, so just at this point we're talking about amendments and just as clearly as you wrote it, you got the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30987	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30988	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected guests and respected citizens, what is unclear about Mr Pavicevic's and Zoran Zivkovic's amendment is why he is in the explanation – it is deleted and why these two MPs are actually pushing for this proposal to definitely be left out of the bill. For the simple reason I think you know for sure, if you don't know that, then it's rather worrying about all of us sitting in this house, it's like TV Arena. It is, as much as you are informed, owned by Telekom Srbija. It's the people's money, Mr. Minister. Three million euros cost an annual contract with the Super League community, three million a year Mr. Tasovac is enough to make sure everything the MPs in this National Assembly have said today, when it comes to local media, especially those in minority language finance in that year. All those media that will shut down your bill and all those who will simply cease to exist for the simple reason that you are cutting off their funding for these changes and additions. Three million euros in TV Arena, and just one more thing, it has been released from this law, it is not on the list of those houses that will now be privatised by this law. You try to put it all in one basket and complete the whole process. Now, that's the money of the Serbian citizens and they're being spent this way and you're also taking part in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30989	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word is Mr. Stefanovic, did you give up? Yeah. I thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we're a little lost here, Telekom Srbija A.D. is a company with the majority capital of the Republic of Serbia, and "Arena sport" is also a majority-owned action society, except Dutch also has Telekom Srbija and nothing to do with "Arena sport" Telekom Serbia has to do with public votes, local or urban or let's say regional. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30991	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Aida Ćorović, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30992	Namely, this member speaks, as we have already had the opportunity to hear from other MPs who have already proposed amendments to this article, that since 1 July 2015 it is forbidden to fund media publishers from public revenues, for which no public invitation has been issued, etc. We propose that the ban on Articles 1 and 2 of this article does not apply to media publishers where the privatisation process is conducted and through the transfer of actions to non-refundable employees until the re-registration process is completed by the Agency for Economic Registers. We believe that this process will take some time. Those media who entered the process will, as you suggested, be left without funding even though, for example, they started the process. According to your own words, we, Mr. Tasovac, are dealing with the presidents of the municipalities who have deliberately obstructed the application of this law. So the presidents of the municipalities, the directors of television, the people of the SNS have obstructed the application of this law and we have reason to believe that they will obstruct these further processes that follow. So we assume that this process will also somehow take place and we think that it can happen very easily that during that period some of these media even cease to exist, given that according to this, they will not have the right to finance. In the government's opinion, however, it is said that this is not the case, that these media will have the right, but this is how the bill says it does not see it. So we think it would be good if this clarification, indeed, was an explanation, adopted, because if these SNS people were to further obstruct the application of the law, then we would have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30993	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30994	You know, I can't understand what's proposed here first, but on the other hand, it's not clear to me when someone says that SNS people are obstructing law enforcement. We're voting for that law here, these people across the street voted against that law. I don't know who can obstruct other than who's apriorius against something like this, but it seems to me that the opposite side first has reason to obstruct this law, right in the province of Vojvodina. Because the province budget sets out abnormal money for the media under their control to prepare them for the next province elections. Out of pure peace, 34 million dinars, the people's money from the province budget, gave to their media to prepare them for the province's elections. Of course they mind this situation when the state needs to withdraw from the media, because then they can no longer give money to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina for their media that are under their control to serve them in the campaign. So this kind of twisting of facts really cannot be accepted and of course, as far as this amendment itself is concerned, no one can vote for this kind of thing. Of course, all of this is politically motivated to continue to remain the individual media that would be under Mr Pajtic's control, above all, and thus possibly try to preserve its power in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30995	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30996	The amendment was just filed for a reason mentioned earlier by an MP from the ruling coalition who said journalists also needed a piece of bread. But journalists don't need a chance and a piece of bread in just three months, they should live after October. You don't offer anything to these amendments to the law and this article, except for a piece of bread for the next three months. Nothing more, you don't have any permanent solutions. The press is confused. You're offering an alternative to becoming owners of actions that they can't essentially take, it's possible that the housekeeper can be and take over those actions, but you're essentially offering them the impossible. So they will really have a piece of bread for three months, and that ends with the government's policy towards the media, according to all those who should broadcast a programme that interests Serbian citizens. You choke in this way the local media, especially the media that broadcast the program in minority languages. As far as I can tell, Mr. Minister, it's not much of a crowd to defend the amendments to this law. Mr Pavicevic said, except for one MP who sits here in the front row, there is not much interest. They seem to realize that this law does not offer any solutions, and they actually let you swim on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30997	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30998	But you, Mr. Minister and your Ministry, are guilty of not solving this problem in a year and someone has to answer for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u30999	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31000	Thank you. Therefore, the state has legitimate interests to provide and guarantee conditions for free, professional and responsible journalism in the media sphere, but also fair rules of the competition. I think it seems rather confusing when I get from the opposition, on one side of the question, which is why, at this point, strictly July 1st, is not respected as a deadline that was foreseen by the previous law, and on the other hand, the extension period for another year. We're made at this point simply. We were faced with the reality that both the media and certain local self-government simply, did not take this seriously, whether it was a kind of obstruction, whether they had the support of certain people who convinced them that it would be done in some other way, that the state would once again give up its withdrawal from the ownership structure of the media, as it did in 2007, etc., I am not getting into that thing now. It just seems to me that this is simply one responsible proposal from the Ministry of Culture and Information, that this is one of the government's responsible proposals, that it is in some way an extorted sign of goodwill that in the next four months all those who have submitted the documentation at least at the last minute get the consent of media founders, get new owners and that employees in these media get a new chance. It's just, I think we're talking about amendments here right now, and that's why I'm simply sticking to what they are, not entering your legitimate right to politicize the whole story in one way or another, as it already suits you. But what is a clear policy of both this Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is clearly expressed through the fact that after 11 years, media laws have been passed, and through all the sublegal acts and through all the things that we have already done at the implementation of these laws, as we have now come out, means that this variant of how we can continue with the media reform and that on July 1st is not only that last date, but that it is the date to which the documentation is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31001	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31002	There are no ministers here, no hints of politicization. We say, this is the law you passed a year ago. You disobeyed the law, you disobeyed the provision in which you were supposed to implement it. The colleagues say – we are asking for the responsibility of the people who have obstructed, as you say, the application of this law. I say – we give an additional deadline for this law to be followed and for this area to be brought into a state where media, i.e. media employees, local self-government, minority communities, etc., and there is no difference. So they're just asking for a cut and someone to answer, and I'm also asking for an additional deadline to be arranged in a quality way. You know what the problem is, Mr. Tasovac? The problem is that the other provisions are not only applicable to this law, but the other laws do not apply, but these provisions regarding deadlines are seen, so when a date comes, it says, "This date has not been respected, let's continue." But no other provisions apply. The problem with our society, our country, is that we make laws that we don't apply, and that's the basic problem. Not as bad laws as a system that doesn't work. Instead of coming to this Assembly with a report on what has been done in the application of certain laws, the laws are in the drawer, not applied and we have dissatisfied citizens, Mr. Tasovac, because the laws are not applied. This is just one quantifiable example that you can see, because one and one is two.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31003	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment. Mr. Tasovac has the advantage. He's entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31004	I agree that there are one and one and two, and that's why I think it's very important that we just moved this deadline by four months. Of course, it's not an ideal variant, but in any case, it's better when you continue to implement the law when you implement the law than when you pass the law that was the law of 2009, which was then dropped in the Constitutional Court. You know perfectly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31005	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31006	Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, law enforcement. I belong to that group of MPs who will not criticise you for failing to meet the deadline, will not criticise you for extending it. I am one of those few MPs who believes that such a law should not have been passed at all because you here are essentially discussing when, in a media sense, this head of press and media, informatively, will be placed on the board, whether it will be October, December, the next March, whether it will be April. Essentially, I'd like it better if you or your colleagues on the other hand talked about what it means to implement the law in life, what's going to happen to those media, if you told us here, how many new warehouses we're going to have, how many new strip clubs, how many new supermarkets we're going to have in the places where the TVs were, and you like it when you go there to visit on those TVs. Go and tell them, we have voted, honourable citizens, that your local media may be abolished. We voted that local environments had no information because, my God, the minister says, that's the market. I'm not against it, I'm in favour of the state coming out of the media. But, I repeat, local and regional public services had to be done. That's what another colleague here was talking about. No one answered anything. Since the wrong concept has been made from the beginning, this is now just a development. I'll explain to you that you're inefficient, I don't think so. That I'm telling you to extend your deadline because you have no idea, you can't enforce your own law, it doesn't occur to me. You've made such a law that nearly 3,000 people will go to the street. You have made such a law that TV "Cacchak" today is worth more than "Studio B". You've made such a law that today neither you nor any of these heroes here on the other side can tell who's going to buy those TVs. Whose friends are they and who are they people and what's going to happen to those TVs, are they going to survive, whether they're going to keep working or not? None of you can say that with any certainty here. On the side that local communities will not have information, aside from being completely devastated and destroyed, and what would not be when the whole of Serbia lives on pension. No one can get a job if he's not a member of the party, so what would he have information about? And what some people do, you say to the press, that journalists work in those media houses at the bar, get up and tell them what's going to happen to them, who's going to buy them and what they're going to buy them for. That's what this is about. That's the darkness. And are you going to execute this month or, I don't know, believe that people in Serbia don't care because they're ready to end up on the street. The market and privatisation in the way you do it in Serbia means the street. If we didn't lie to each other anymore, you learned a lesson that we used to learn, we didn't teach her, you won't teach her either. I repeat, there is no debt waiting for people at the end of the transition. There's only a man whose cabbie takes the money and buys the TV, then he sees it's not going, makes some stars to the local, so it doesn't go either, then he builds a potato warehouse. Where people are going to work, who cares, it's important that we fill out what we've drawn for ourselves. That's the problem, Your Honor. We have a drastic difference in seeing that situation. That doesn't mean we're enemies. I just don't think the way you came in to solve it, I absolutely don't see any luck in all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31007	Thank you. The word has Minister Ivan Tasovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31008	I have to tell you, we have two different opinions here. I totally understand that and you're thinking politically here, and probably that's what you were thinking when you put it in the strategy's proposal, which was against what the media association and NUNS and UNS and AEM and Local Press and NDNV were up against at the time, and they were against the establishment of regional public services. What I think is very important is that we had a great interaction with the profession. If you look at the commissions that decided to compete on co-financing of the programme, it is in them that most of them make up representatives of journalists and media associations. So simply, by choosing between this political and professional view, I find the opinion of the profession more important to me on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31009	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31010	Thank you, Your Honor. I've listened to various demagogies, but like this, I've never really heard this in my life. First, we have one MP, an amendment applicant, who, in his first address, accuses the government of leaving a piece of bread to the press, and then criticises the government for not implementing the law in the next address. I guess if she had implemented it, you'd be out of that piece of bread a lot faster. So you can't catch him for what a man is, which he represents, is whether this is being implemented or against implementation. It's totally amazing what we're hearing here. Speaking of how journalists lost that piece of bread, they stayed by being exactly the party in which it was a member, with its tycoons, one of them was the party president, and the other was also holding huge advertising space, they were destroying the media by not giving them ads. When you don't have an ad, the media is destroyed, and you can totally fail, no one can get paid in any media. That's how they kept the media under their control. Also in the budget, especially from public enterprises, money was only given to those media who were on the line of the then single Democratic Party, now I don't know what they are or what they are in the aggregate state. So, this story of what we're listening to -- the workers will be out of work, they've been left out of work for a long time because you've been destroying these media by hiring party personnel, and you've been giving out of municipal budgets so much money for these people, and there's no rational development, because these media certainly worked as losers. Now you're accusing the government of wanting to withdraw from the media. I guess it's desirable that you don't have party control, that you don't have state control over these media, that's probably something that the whole world is trying to do, but it's obvious that you want to keep those media that are currently being held under your control by the AP Vojvodina so that you can keep the money from the citizens or the AP Vojvodina or even the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if, God forbid, one day, you'll get a chance to rule again and to rob the citizens and to give that money to your media. When you say so, I should have stayed regional public services, here, to agree with you. Who's gonna pay for those public services? Well, citizens have to pay, whether they're going to pay through a tax, through a subscription or from a budget, as taxpayers paying taxes, it's totally irrelevant, but certainly citizens finance public service. As I see it, you now have an objection to RTS which introduces a tax. Let's just say, I have this remark, and it has nothing to do with the government, it does RTS or RTS, in accordance with the law. If you do not want a public service, tell the citizens – we want to shut down the public service. But that public service needs to find some revenue. Whether you're going to do it out of the budget, which is wrong, then it's state television, or whether it's citizens, through some kind of tax, subscription, whatever it is they pay, it's already something else, but the public service has to be financed by something. Don't spill that demagogue anymore and I don't know what you're complaining about, apparently workers, you brought these people down to get out of work because these media didn't produce any content, no one looked at them, and they survived by transferring money from public enterprises to keep those media alive because they served you in the campaign, that's the only truth. Now this is the situation, the market determines the conditions. If that medium works well, it will survive, he will certainly be wanted by the citizens to watch. If it doesn't survive, what do we do, that's the situation, the market determines it. I have to ask you something, Mr. Tasovac. Since it's about staying money in this country, we've had one situation and not a small number of media are complaining about something like that, it's a situation with cross-border channels. I don't mind, anyone can play a commercial here, but if he's based in Bulgaria or Romania or anywhere, he can't broadcast commercials here without paying any taxes to the state. It just has to stop. The law says it well, and the law must finally begin to be implemented. Money either stays in this country, not in Bulgaria or Romania, and this really doesn't make any sense, it's time to regulate it once. After all, we have these very independent bodies that our predecessors have brought, which obviously do nothing or do very little about it, or they can't do it, but what is it, but mostly the media market and the media image are regulated by these independent bodies, which you are so certainly behind. Therefore, I would ask you to tell us – when will the law finally begin, that cross-border channels cannot broadcast ads without paying taxes in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31011	Thank you. Mr. Tasovac, you'll get your word, but before that, we have replicas. The word is by MP Vesna Marjanovic, a replica of Mr Djukanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the manner has already become a constant discussion of the past, and it is always a limit to what year it is spoken of in the past and not to which it is not. First, about the tycoons and how the media was financed in some previous period. I would like, as it is repeatedly repeated, to now invite all independent bodies, all NGOs involved in monitoring this area, to determine how the media is financed today, who are today the owners of agencies dealing with the sale of advertising space in the media, whether they are related persons to some of the people in the government of the Republic of Serbia, so let's see if any progress has been made, if what the predecessor was saying is true, I don't know that it's true, but if it's already true, let's see how it is now, if this government has made any progress after three years on that plan. Secondly, I think that if we are already talking about history, it is very important to say, this is not the first media reform in Serbia. The first was carried out between 2000 and 2003. At that time, regulatory bodies were formed, a transformed public service and many steps were made in the development of the media sector in Serbia. If it hadn't been done, by then we had, by 2000, the possibility of the media being banned, by the decisions of Slobodan Milosevic or then the Minister of Information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31013	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31014	This is very interesting. I'm glad you admitted that you were doing it in the media sphere and that's a major advance. So now we have a concrete confession on your part that you've affected the media so much, and that's good, it's good to have the courage to admit it at least. As for today's media funding, I'd like you to tell me, a public company that has a monopoly character, for example, an EPS how much it pays for its advertising, I'm not talking about ads, I'm talking about advertising, I'm talking about EPS and what it's offering, or some other public enterprise that has a monopoly character, is today throwing money for pointless commercials? Otherwise, it was done in your time to fund certain media, exclusively that were under your control. As for the sale of advertising space, here, I support absolutely any investigation to see who it is today, if there are such ones as your former party president or another tycoon, I'd like to see if today someone is blackmailing the media with commercials. It's something that's most important, because at the time your media was shutting down because they couldn't get the commercial. I don't know today that one of the media was shut down because he couldn't get the commercial, and I think that's the key difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31015	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take it very briefly, so I hope we're done with it. So I didn't give any credit here. I said that what MPs claim has never been proven, and confessions are given, in terms of and the way we need to speak here, only in court. Now, the fact that we here in parliament are talking about whatever comes to mind, without any resistance to the decisions of the competent institutions, that's another thing. But, please, that's all I want to keep in the stenogram, so there's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31017	Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica! You don't, Mr. Djukanovic, right on the line. The minister is waiting. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: I was misunderstood. You're not mentioned, Mr. Djukanovic. I have to give the word to the Minister, so you'll get the word. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31018	Thank you, Chairman. The problem you mentioned is in the Law on Electronic Media, but it is also clear that it is in the domain of REM, or former RRA, implementation. What seems to me is that it is possible to further specify, which is through the new advertising law, which is under way and which is on the agenda of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. So the advertising law is under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31019	Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31020	Very short. Mr. Tasovac, thank you for this. I'd really like it to be regulated as soon as possible, because it doesn't make sense, you have domestic broadcasters here who pay taxes to the state because they play certain commercials, and you have some that are based in some other countries, and they're playing commercials here and they don't pay anything. That doesn't make any sense. On the other hand, a recently respected colleague said that there was nothing proven that someone was blackmailing the media in this way. I'd just like to pray, and you, Mr. Becic, are extremely aware that the marketing services of certain media during this past period were completely destroyed, there was no reason to exist. Why? Because when you come to advertise in some media, they tell you to go to that and that, to his firm, because we sold him seconds, and that's the only way you could advertise. It really worked in one of the best ways, where the marketing services of all the media, from RTS to I don't know what, were completely destroyed because their seconds had two, for example. The tycoon that kept the entire advertising space here. At least two. So, I'm also talking about Mr. Gilas and Mr. Shaper, for example, who absolutely owned something like that in their possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31021	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Thank God, it's been so long. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31022	Dear fellow ministers, I must remind some MPs that the process of privatising the media in Serbia has started since 2003 and that it is still 2006/2007. One privatisation process has already been done. It's very clear here. So, the amendments and additions to this law are in fact ending the privatisation process in Serbia that started in 2003 and are now remaining television, i.e. local media not privatised in the first round of privatisation 2006/2007. A year. Another thing, in every municipality in Serbia, there is at least one local commercial television that will be able to use this law, means with the help of project financing, to compete in every municipality for local information of citizens. The third thing, I expect from RTS, as a public media service, is when next year it stabilises its revenues, through a fee, or a subscription in all the district centers where it has its correspondence opening and launching regional television centres, to inform people. I think Nis currently operates at least three local commercial televisions, so they can now compete through project financing to inform citizens in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31023	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31024	Thank you, Chairman. I'll just take a minute. I would return to the defense of this amendment. What confuses me at this point, I must remind the MP, the head of the parliamentary group, I am sorry that he is not here now, that this law, too, was passed on the basis of a media strategy that was adopted in 2011, more specifically on September 28th, if I am not mistaken, with a deadline until 2016. What we have heard today about the assessment of the media situation and the need for such a law not to be passed at all, says that this is, in my opinion, a denial of the European path, because all the relevant institutions of Europe supported the media strategy that year 2011. If this law is in line with the media strategy and its implementation by 2016, then I really don't understand what this turn is in the Serbian opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31025	Thank you. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31026	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is evident that the state wants to get rid of all unnecessary donations after that, so of course it also applies in this way to privatization of the media and wants to end it as soon as possible. We have an impression, and that's what we were talking about in the principle debate, that the Ministry was uninterested. As for the preparation of the media for privatisation, I think they are quite sloppyly done and I think they are driven without any desire or will to help in the privatisation process. Of course, Mr. Minister said they had ten sessions across Serbia, but they obviously didn't bring any results. Our parliamentary group thinks that these four months left, an additional four months, will not be enough for a valid privatisation, and we have proposed that earlier amendments extend this process by one year. And this amendment refers to exactly that. Article 2 refers, namely, to the ban on financing of media from public funds. We asked that this deadline, which we of course extended for a year, be extended for another three months. I think that these additional three months are very important, because the media whose capital is not sold and shareholders become employees of the media, it takes an additional three months for them to apply for registration for free action, and then it is necessary to call a general meeting of the shareholders' society. So they need to organize themselves so they can function. Then you need to register with the APR. One more thing that's very important, they won't be able to apply for project funding in the meantime. So, they will, in fact, still be a public enterprise, until they are transformed into a stock company, and our amendment is just about that. So, the extension to 2016, plus three months for additional media adjustment, whose owners are just shareholders, i.e. media owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31027	I thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31028	Dear Members, it seems to me that you have gone beyond all amendments in the deadlines, so in 2017, which I could only see as marking the 10-year anniversary when it was necessary to actually complete the state's exit from the media ownership structure. What I absolutely cannot accept is that you said – the ministry's lack of interest is that it is maximumly disrupting and educating both the media and local self-government itself on the whole importance. On the other hand, there were also people who educated them completely in another way, just by making false promises or by hoping that these deadlines would extend to 2016, 2017 etc. So we're talking about moving, just, like, four months, and this would be two years old. We are still talking about 2015, and here it is moving in 2017, it is contrary to what is both a media strategy and what is the tendency of this government, so we must therefore reject that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31029	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31030	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the process itself over the past nine months, ten, how long was the presentation, as you say, of local administrations, or local media. Where did they find a foothold of local media and local administrations themselves? They were probably looking for her in power. I've had a chance to see some newspaper articles where they accuse the Ministry of Obstruction. So, the 60 media that gave us the complete paperwork on time directly accuses the Ministry of Obstruction. Apparently, there's also some famous protocol between the Privatisation Agency and your Ministry. So I'm curious. What exactly is it? Is it true that you and the Privatisation Agency have been having a rough discussion with each other about whose jurisdiction the protocol is? The privatisation agency claimed that its jurisdiction is only in one part, in part respect for the contract, and everything else is the responsibility of the ministry. It's one of the aspects that assures me that in the next four months, we're not going to make good media privatisation. So you didn't convince me that our proposal, as you said, went the farthest way. I don't think it's taken care of enough of what's going to happen to the media whose owners are just shareholders, or employees. So they need a period in which they will form congregations, apply to the APR, compete, so, this year, I mean, by watching these deadlines, they won't have the opportunity to apply for so-called. project financing. I'd like you to reassure me of this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31031	Thank you. Mr. Tasovac is entitled to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31032	So let me explain. There was a certain dilemma about the protocol and it was tied exclusively to the printed media and it was removed within two to three weeks and in no way influenced by privatisation, the very flow of privatisation. And this 60-media information just isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31033	Thank you. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, Mr. Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31034	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow citizens, I believe that this amendment should simply be rejected, because exactly the extension of the four-month period is quite enough for everything that has been started, according to the law which is current and which is valid, which provided that the media is obliged to make a public call for their sale by the end of this month, or 30, by the end of this month. For them alone, this extension of the four-month period applies, and that is quite enough time to change the structure, i.e. the ownership of all media. Whether it will be a sale, whether it will be taken over by employees through actions, mostly, up to four months is quite enough time. I want to clarify that citizens are aware and know that only this government and only the SNS are ready to stop the abuse of the media that was present in earlier periods, were local self-government and the abuse of media management at local and regional levels. Serbia's advanced party does not need that. They want us to implement a media law within this four-month period of voting these changes, in which we will create equal conditions for all those on the media market and will be prevented and it will not be possible for mayors and presidents of municipalities to go through local media to simply implement the campaign politically for themselves, for their political option, with funds for paying these media coming from the budget, which is the budget of all citizens. It's precisely this privatisation and the application of these laws that will put it in order. Citizens will be informed by media that are privately owned and no party will have the opportunity to abuse the media space that has been misused by authorities so far in the previous period, in many cases and more than misused. It is commendable, of course, and the ministry's reaction, given that this is a very difficult task. Since 2007, no one has ever wanted to, not even had a good will, let alone that they have decided to write a law that simply will force all those present to privatise the media and that what was the problem is deleted, that the same conditions apply on the market and all those media that are not able to privatise, must change the structure and the citizens will only be better informed and will be met by what the law and predicted, which is timely and responsible and true information, and this will just be achieved by media that are not under the conductor's rod of local powers, or local authorities, but will work exclusively in accordance with the market and according to the laws that apply from the media area. In the voting day, of course, we cannot accept this amendment because it simply extends something that started in 2007 for more than a year and it shows what the opposition's relationship to the media is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31035	I thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to support this amendment, which was explained by my colleague, but I see a misunderstanding in the O.R. or a desire not to be understood. So, what's going to happen by 31 this month is that all those public votes, all those media who hand over the complete documentation to the Privatisation Agency, we're sure it's 14 or 17, I didn't get a response from the minister whether those 20 delivered or only 14 or 17 that would be advertised for privatisation, have a chance to get four more months to be privatized. All others go into bankruptcy on July 1st, shares are shared to employees, but so they have no right to receive shares of those who have received from NIS, Telekom, all those actions that have been shared, so those who have not received the shares can get the shares, but not all the actions, but only as long as they are followed by years of work experience, the rest goes to the Agency, and since the Agency, i.e. The state, it can't own the media, it closes. That's the point. What are we looking for? We ask for a delay in the deadlines so that privatisation is carried out properly, i.e. to get the media a chance. What my colleague understood more, there are private media in Nis, but the point is that Nislims will pay the subscription, but they will not have adequate information of the state's public record according to the amount of money they have in Belgrade, as they have in Vojvodina. Project financing. Project financing, in itself, has no continuity, no obligation to keep the same level of information, it's project financing. You set up a project that could be this year, and it doesn't have to mean it. There's no obligation. There is no continuity. What happens if the budget is not adopted in December of the month, but adopted in March of the month? Temporarily funded. How? Project? Well, that can't be. So I'm telling you, let's give the citizens a chance. Come on for the companies, let's go to the public, let's give the citizens a chance to have continuity in the availability of public information that they had at the local level. Let's give the ministry and the government a chance to accept a proposal from regional public services. Why? Because we all have the same rights, not just a commitment, I guess we have the rights. How are these people gonna be informed about everything? Projected, or waiting for a chronicle of regions that can't afford to cover the entire territory of the Republic? No way, time can't, it's impossible. That is the essence of what we seek, and we expect the support of the Messengers. I deeply believe that we all think the same thing and let's do what the citizens sent us to do, to protect their interests. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31037	Mr. Bradic, there are only 40 seconds left for your parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31038	Thank you. I can kind of agree with Mr. Bradic, but, you know, now all of a sudden, we're being asked to have public services in the regions, and he's complaining here if RTS introduces a tax. Now I can't understand why people are across the street? If you're introducing a public service at a regional level, so that public service has to be financed by something, someone has to pay for it. They'll pay the citizens. Then tell people you're for some kind of subscription to that regional public service, so maybe we should talk, if you're not into it. I don't know how you think you're funding? You're not going out of the budget, are you? The point is, the state is pulling out of the media. I don't understand what criticism is. Secondly, if we're talking about RTS, so I guess it can open, and there seems to be a regional centre in Nis. After all, in the era of digital television, you can create a situation to make a completely different programme and understand for that region. Of course, you need to modernize the television itself. You have CNN today, for example, which in different parts of the world plays completely different programs. You can have RTS in the era of digital television, a digital signal to modernize, for example, that in Nis exactly for that region it releases a certain type of programme so that citizens can be informed, let's say something completely different to be in Belgrade, and that you have a unique programme, for example, an information journal, etc. So this can all be done, if you want to make progress and have one quality public service, it can be done. I'm just saying, if you're already asking us to start regional public services, tell me who's going to finance it. That's the key question because you don't think someone's going to give money out of the budget again, do you? So think about it before you come up with such an idea. I don't mind, but it must be ensured then that funding of such a public service at regional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31039	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Tasovac has the word. Here you go. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Bradic, since Mr. Djukanovic was just talking to me as chairman, he didn't speak to you for a moment, you have no right to a replica. You can only do these 40 seconds of your time, but there's a minister's word before that. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31040	Ambassador, since you have bid several times during the debate with the number of media who have submitted the documentation, I must once again draw your attention that it is in the domain of the Privatisation Agency so that they deal with complete data. Also, I have to make it right, this is where the funding is planned for a maximum of four months, which means that if the first call succeeds after two months in that case, more money from the budget will be saved. Also, do not speak correctly, you are talking about project financing, and in fact, it is not true that there is no continuity, because the law provides that it is possible to create these projects for a three-year period. Also, I guess you know, let's say, how much for this year's project co-financing has been allocated exactly to Nis, and I think that's one of the things that you could freely brag about and nisil.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31041	Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31042	I'll try taxing after 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31043	More time, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31044	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31045	I'll give you more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31046	Mr. Djukanovic, read the bill I submitted and was rejected three times here. The project financing of this television, that is, RTS, is a working name, just like Vojvodina. Seventy percent remain regional public service, and 30% go RTS. Just like Vojvodina's funding RTS. It's exactly the same in the hair. The exact same, no different. So, what already exists, and you explain to me why you can't do it in Vojvodina, you can't do it in Nis? Well, explain it to me. I'll be happy. Because it doesn't say in the law? We're a body that writes laws, we're a body that gives laws to this country. We can change that if there's political will, if there's political will. And, Mr. Minister, you're wrong, but since I don't have much time for any other occasion. I absolutely disagree, and what I asked I didn't know what I said, I just asked you as minister should know how much, I suppose, you should know how much media will be privatized, and how much will immediately go into action. That's what I asked, because it was bided by one number to let people know how many of 73, how many are going to privatize. Well, that's just a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31047	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has first Minister Ivan Tasovac, and then the replica has Mr Djukanovic, then Momir Stojanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31048	Just once again to explain, so it'll be true. We can't bid before July 1st, until the deadline, when the Privatisation Agency, whose domain it is, will come out and that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31049	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31050	Personally, if you ask me, so I speak strictly in personal name, I am not a supporter of RT Vojvodina as a public service, I am only a supporter of RT Serbia as a public service.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31051	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, just don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31052	And to keep this simple on the market, but that's how it is, we now have a public service, but you mentioned funding. Well, RT Vojvodina's looking for a tax just like RTS. So he's asking for a fee for the citizens of the AP Vojvodina to pay for it. So now I ask the question, tell us to open up 20 regional public services like there's ideas here, how to fund it. There is no other way but for citizens to finance. Whether it's going to be from the budget, local, municipal however it's going to be through a subscription or through a tax, but it has to survive, there's no other vision, and without money it can't live. So that's all I've been talking about, and that's why it's kind of lame to spread all kinds of demagogy, but anyway, I respect the idea. I am a supporter that every region has adequate information, but so many years you've told us back if it's best to privatize everything. Now that we've come to the state's retreat, that we're going to privatize, now all of a sudden it's no good. Now all of a sudden, we feel sorry for the press, we feel sorry for the editors, I don't know who. Well, wait, people, you've been telling us all along that there's something best in the world to privatize. What makes this change of opinion and such an incredible Marxist approach to the media market? It's completely incomprehensible to me. You've either lied to us for 12 years and deceived us, or you've suddenly had a Marxism attack, whatever it is, but in any case this doesn't drink water anymore, the market determines the conditions in the media and that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31053	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31054	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to report in the light that through all these amendments one desire to preserve regional media is being implemented. Now my predecessor who comes from the same city where I come from, and many other MPs, we disagree in that part because if we want low television to do so, I think everyone who sits here is very concerned that the people who have worked in the media so far, who are privatizing somehow find the sources of their existence. That question wouldn't be so much, dear colleague, politicizing and picking up cheap political points, I would offer a solution. Some solution for low and other regional television could be next. Let's say local self-government forgives the debts the local media has towards the city. To create an adequate social programme for those who are overworked, and to try to get those who are employed on television to buy their own television. It's the only solution. If we held back state ownership in the media, then we would be contrary to the media strategy, we would be contrary to other laws and development strategies that we have already adopted. I am equally in pain by the fate of the employees of the Low TV and many of my colleagues who come from Nis, just like Mr Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31055	Please, Mr. Stojanovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31056	Nothing, me so much. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31057	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31058	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whether or not I'm going to be called by some moral gromads, I'm obliged to say that the explanation of this amendment is my colleague who explained this amendment is wrong, for the simple reason it's a matter of later wit. I can agree with the reorganisation, the regionalisation of public service, and I can agree with the division of income, but I cannot agree with that, given that the MP does not come from a parliamentary group that did not have authority. So what bothered them to do it when they were government, twelve years, ten years, eight years old, the party's leader and how he was at the top of that government, why didn't they regionalise public service and reorganise income division, etc.? How come that subsequent mind suddenly when we lose power, then we know what we'd do if we got power again, and if we brought them back to power, they wouldn't do anything again. So at the time, the most important thing was that huge amounts of money, huge sums of money from the state and state enterprises were transferred to printed and electronic media. All the media were theirs, except for one or two, who were less influential and who were somehow favored by the opposition. Everything else was under their control and then nothing mattered to them. Whether it's a public service, whether it's being broadcast on a program that's not under 18 years old, nothing mattered to them, or whether it was collecting tax through a number, etc. The only thing that mattered to them was that a huge amount of money was sabotaging, not only in public service, but also in other printed electronic media, in such a way that they kept it under control. All we can think of is Mr. Dulic, how much money he's transferred to certain media...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31059	Mr. Risticevic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31060	I think I talked about the amendment a little bit more than my colleagues explain. I'm saying they didn't need to be reorganized then...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31061	I'd like to remind everyone, Mr. Risticevic, and please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31062	Again, Mr. Becic, I'm trying to be in the amendment, and if you want to introduce censorship when it comes to the media, then you shouldn't have let me call myself when I wasn't at the session. It doesn't matter, since that affection for the opposition holding power in Vojvodina is obvious to you and I don't blame you. But I'm saying I can't accept an explanation, where a colleague is looking for regionalization and reorganisation, for the simple reason that at the time they exercised power, they didn't think to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31063	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. You defend yourself very well, so there's no need, but if you say so, I'll use my right next time. Here's a word from MP Milan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31064	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The reason I came forward was one prejudge, privatization with the layoff of workers, and at risk of repeating myself in relation to the principled debate, media, when you buy some medium, you don't buy hectares of land, you buy only media space. If you don't improve it, you can't sell it later and build a warehouse there. It's usually small rooms, bad equipment, and a lot of people who work. So you're very interested in making these media efficient, becoming modern, so I don't see much danger here, why we connect to 3,000 jobs that they're going to lose. I'm absolutely sure this is a chance for the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31065	Mr. Stevanović, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31066	On the other hand, it's just about the printed media. Look, everywhere in the world, the printed media is in the declaration. Although a traditional way of communicating, they are obsolete. Once a day you get information through the printed media and it today does not meet the needs of the average consumer, but they also have a chance through an internet portal that has been developed...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31067	Mr. Stevanović, please finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31068	I'm just finishing up, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31069	Thank you. (Branka Karavidic, from the post: I thought I would report for the amendment. Mrs. Karavidic, you don't have time. I just asked Mr. Stevanović, and you don't have time for a parliamentary group, so you can't talk. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31070	I would ask you to ensure the minister's presence, as I address him and he should accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31071	He's back, Mr. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31072	It's okay to create full business conditions for work. Article 3 provides that Articles 146, 1 and 2 are to be amended where conditions are to extend the period for privatisation, i.e. practically "Tanjuga" and this is a very interesting example. What happened to "Tanjuga"? Is it possible that the state that manages the Tanjug today has allowed itself, because some local officials, nervous directors, are not guilty, stop, of breaking the deadline and of it being the reason for these amendments to the law. "Tanjug" is a serious house, a newspaper. An agency that deserves the attention of everyone in Serbia, especially those who are connected to the state and who, for one reason or another, currently have the happiness or misfortune to run the state. It is absolutely inadmissible to bring "Tanjug" into a position that, on a day, a few days, as far as we have until July 1st, one blackmailing amendment to the law, where it says that it will stop funding, if not announced, only a little, to find a text, since it is not easy, if the sale is not announced, or an estimate of capital and a publication for its sale. It speaks as an additional argument to everything we said earlier, which is that the state was unable to implement the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31073	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr Bečić, the Honored Minister Tasovac and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. This amendment has not been accepted. Minister Tasovac explained why he was not accepted, stated that he did not understand how he was violating the rule of law principle by this bill, and I now want an additional argument to tell Mr Tasovac. A patch of law, respected gentlemen, Mr. Tasovac, is always the opposite of the rule of law. With this proposal, you're breaking a good law, Your Honor. Let me tell you what a rag means. He says, what's being patched up, so you're patching up now a law that's good, which is concluded, which is being tempered and instead of the Minister of Culture and Information always coming here with some good suggestions that point us forward, Minister Tasovac follows bad examples of Minister Selakovic or Minister Mihajlovic. Here's what they were doing, Mr. Tasovac? Minister Selakovic here changed the same law several times in less than eight months. Minister Mihajlovic is one law for less than two weeks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31075	Mr. Pavicevic, please... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is this a theme? ) Please, Mr Pavicevic, the MPs are rightly defiant because you are not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31076	I'm talking, Mr. Becic. Minister Tasovac complained about why he didn't accept the amendment, that he didn't understand how this proposal brought down the rule of law, and I told him that the rag from the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31077	Mr. Pavicevic, you have to explain your amendment, not the way you want to do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31078	Mr. Becic, one sentence. The cloth of the law is always the opposite of the rule of law. I explained to Minister Tasovac how this proposal is a patch of law, Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31079	Time. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31080	I'll answer as Minister of Information. I'm glad you admitted, this is about one good law, and we're only talking about a four-month shift here. As Minister of Culture, I fully support your literary exhibition, like a rag, which I don't know where exactly is recognized in a legal sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31081	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read this amendment carefully, and I didn't have to try very hard, since it reads "expect". So the complicated amendment one MP couldn't put together, they had to help each other, there needed a lot of wisdom and maturity. There was no need for a “bath, ” no need to patch up, no matter how hard such an amendment could be read, a very mature amendment could be made. I am in order for this amendment to be rejected because there would be adverse consequences and if they adopted their amendment, what would happen to TUNJUG? We propose in the basic bill that the issue be resolved in an additional four months. If this amendment were to be adopted and deleted, TANJUG would be in trouble in a few days. So, at that point, he would legally, in my opinion, disappear. I don't know what the two of them came up with, what they thought when this amendment was being written, if they adopted it would be very devastating for that house, so those who work there, too, and I'm afraid the public would be denied some objective information that this house provides. I think that the adverse consequences would be far greater by adopting this amendment than by refusing and I don't think there was much maturity, I'm afraid that on that spring or as it says, "there will be a new spring in Serbia," etc., and while calling for a new spring, while calling for some new light, they have achieved, turned off the lights and thought to turn off the light in TANJU. I think this should be turned down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31083	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31084	Thank you, Chairman. I don't understand, and I think my colleague Risticevic explained it very nicely, so why does someone want to shut down the TUNJUG? If we were to really accept this "wipe up", TANJUG has since, since the day after tomorrow, it would cease to exist, even though I can agree with a part of the discussion of distinguished colleagues who said it was necessary to prepare myself, I agree, but obviously they did not. However, Mr. Tasovac, I would really like you to tell us, it is a very important state agency, perhaps most important, when it comes to privatisation itself, it is impossible for the state to remain completely without any agency at least to monitor the work of the government. I think it's something that's perfectly normal and that's everywhere in the world. I wonder if maybe there's going to be some kind of crossover, for example that some part of a TANJUG or whatever, stays in that segment to monitor the government's work and that only in that segment works, because it really works everywhere in the world as such and exists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31085	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31086	I think we need to go one step at a time here. So the first step is to see who's going to be announced by July 1st, then the first auction, the second auction, and then it's going to be seen, so far, there are no such special plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31087	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Tasovac and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have now learned that we have here two ministers, Minister of Tasovac and Minister of Tasovac. One Minister Tasovac is the Minister of Information, and the other Minister of Tasovac is the Minister of Culture. Reading the Ministry Act, gentlemen, I have noticed that only one person can be a minister of culture and information, so I ask Mr. Tasovec to clarify now this state in which we are. What does that mean, gentlemen? The other thing, Mr Tasovac, you seem to have forgotten that the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, voted in favour of the bill when we discussed it at the end of July 2014 and when we voted on this bill on 2 August 2014 and you cannot blame us Mr Tasovac for not supporting one law, and we voted in favour of this bill. I am Mr. Tasovac, to explain to you the use of the coin "murder" from the law for this proposal that you are defending today in the National Assembly, because you are corrupting, Mr. Tasovac, something that was good in our court and what we voted for. "Krpež" is a word found in the dictionary, Mr Tasovac of Serbian language, Matica of Serbian. In 2007, in the National Assembly, which is a political institution, those words are allowed to be used to describe a state or some phenomenon that is not professional, but I think Mr. Tasovac's coin is the best coin of the law to describe what you will do if this bill is adopted, Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31089	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31090	I absolutely agree with you in everything, except that you have characterized this amendment to the law in the right way. This amendment of the law represents a continuation of media reform and I am very proud that this government has both the determination and the strength to implement it. Also, you're absolutely right, I didn't exactly express myself, and I'll try to make it right next time, I just didn't say I'd answer you first from the information domain, and then from the culture domain. I thank you again for pointing me to my failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31091	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vesenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31092	It's about tanjug, Mr. Tasovac. You know that even a small child in Serbia knows when to say "How Tanjug reports" that it is something that creates respect. TANJUG is a respectable news agency, it has a long tradition and you, Mr. Tasovac, and you put the whole government in a basket of those institutions that are likely to disappear soon, and their fate is uncertain. Mr. Tasovac, do you know what the French Press position is like in France or the Czech news agency? Has the state completely withdrawn from these media? The state must not influence the EU's media policy, but we, Mr. Tasovac, are not yet in the EU and does not guarantee that the state will withdraw from the TUNJUG news agency, that the news agency will be independent. Are all the media and news agencies we have today independent? Mr. Tasovac, the TANJUG news agency, has been legally stated as a sui generis of a specific position, in tradition, in the role it plays in Serbia. You are in some way destroying the TANJUG news agency, this government that has been functioning for so long, and Mr Pavicevic, apart from the "knack" this law can legally be called "legally missing" or harmful to Serbian citizens, harmful to the people to whom it applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31093	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31094	Your Honor, I would not prejudge the disastrous outcome of the state's exit from the ownership structure of TANJUG, according to whom I myself am very strong, I am free to say an emotional relationship. But one of the government's obligations is to create a fair starting position for all participants on the media scene. You know that besides TANJUG, there are two other news agencies here and there are going to be conditions here that all have an equal starting position.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31095	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31096	Thank you. Well, here, Mr. Tasovac would disagree with you, with this last thing you said, because if someone was destroying TUNJUG, they did it by favouring the very two private agencies and subsidies, and I don't know what the state did, and by absolutely giving them exclusiveity everywhere, and TUNJUG was putting in and doing nothing, don't let them talk about the destruction of TANJUG, because if someone ruined it, it was ruined by that power in which, among other things, the distinguished colleague who submitted this amendment, represents here in parliament. When we speak to Tanjugu, unfortunately, he came all the way here and this situation thanks to them. Don't make them cry over Tanjug now because they've basically ruined it, just because they favored one of those private agencies first, not to mention the name here right now, we all know who it's about. They gave her exclusiveity absolutely in everything, in monitoring politicians, in tracking events, and Tanjug was put aside like that, just to be there, the order is to follow up on the events because it's a state agency. That's how they treated this Tanjug and, unfortunately, it's why he came where he is, but I hope for some better days for that agency. After all, being declared for privatisation does not mean that it will be sold. The question is if anyone has any interest in buying, maybe having, maybe not, we'll see. Anyway, I'm sorry the Tanjug News Agency is so ruined, it's so ruined. I see that here, some are now pushing for us to establish some of the state media in the way it is in the countries of Western Europe. I'm afraid if we did that, that someone here would accuse us of spying, that I don't know what, because not a small number of these media, and especially the big ones in the Western European countries, are in a certain system that I believe you wouldn't like to find any of our state media. So, don't call yourself so much for that experience. I'm telling you, I hope for better days for Tanjug, and I'm sorry that this is how it went down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31097	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31098	I think that this amendment should be rejected, that my colleague Djukanovic was absolutely right, because there has been a turning point in the heads of certain MPs, and it is almost impossible, I do not understand what the amendment promoters want. On the one hand, we are accused of controlling the media through politics, through state functions, through government work. They charge that the government is pressuring the media, that the government is censoring it, that it is doing it both at the state level and at the level of local self-government. On the other hand, they want to keep the state's influence in the media and so on in Tanjug. So the government is asked to abandon participation, not to come out of the media, and on the other hand, to accuse the state of creating political opportunities and difficulties, or censorship, by its influence through capital in these media. Now I don't know what they're for. They're a little turned around. It's time for one thing. It's time for another. They're here that there's no influence of the state on the media, and on the other hand, they're asking for countries to stay in the media. Such a misunderstanding makes me think that they don't really know what they want, but whoever doesn't know he doesn't know, he already knows something, and I'm afraid that's not the case with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31099	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31100	Thank you. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, here's the last amendment I'm reporting for. We are looking for the same extension with the same explanation as all of this previously in the discussion, for a simple reason because we are deeply convinced that everything the ministry has failed to do in the past year, and Mr. Minister, with the same enthusiasm, with enthusiasm, spoke with determination a year ago that everything will be completed by the end of June of this year. Here, now, two days before the deadline we're moving deadlines in four months. I asked, I didn't get an answer – why in four months? What's going to happen that hasn't happened in the past year and that's going to happen in these four months? What I don't think is right is that instead of equating the citizens of Serbia in rights, not only in obligations, that they all have the same approach and the same treatment in houses dealing with public-media information, we will have when all this is over, privatised or extinguished, that the people of Serbia, I'm talking about half of Serbian citizens, will pay a fee. A subscription, but they will not have the same representation rights as the citizens of Belgrade and Vojvodina. Risking being advertised as a politician, I think it is better to be a politician and defend attitudes than, I am deeply convinced, to do great damage to the rights of half of Serbia's citizens. We will try to make sure that the law I have proposed continues to propose until the ministry is heard to equalise Serbia's citizens in rights, not just in obligations. Since I don't have any more time, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31101	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31102	The amendment to Article 4 proposes to amend Article 148, i.e. in the first paragraph of the Regulation on the Federal Public Institution of Radio-Yugoslavia "Official Journal of the SRJ" and that, it ceases to apply at the latest, was written on July 1st, and is proposed to write – July 31st. There's a few bigger problems. First of all, why are we legally abolishing the rule of law of a government? It was a federal government regulation. Why does the regulation not end the Serbian government that has the right to do so, since Serbia is a legal follower of the SRJ? Why doesn't the government end it itself, but that Radio-Yugoslavia or what it's called now, I don't remember, but it puts it in Parliament's hands? Secondly, Your Honors Minister, explain to me what you can get for those 30 days, what's the difference between July 1st and July 31st? What's going to happen to historical, programming, media, cultural, whatever you want, with Radio-Yugoslavia or whatever it's called now, by moving that deadline now? Item 2 is even nicer. It says – the legal consequences of the end of the Federal Public Institute Radio-Yugoslavija will be regulated by the Government by its act. Well, what do we do about it in this law if the government is going to handle it with its own act? And this member and what we're asking for to be deleted is to implement the law that was passed last August, where the law was defined to get the state out of the media, but it wasn't enough just to pass that law, but it had to be done since then to do so in a manner that is decent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31103	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, Honored Minister Tasovac and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, of course, I remind Mr. Tasovac that it is necessary to answer two questions asked by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I now have in relation to our amendment to Article 4. The bill and one logical explanation of one mistake made by Mr. Tasovac. Mr. Tasovac said that this bill and its adoption confirm the government's reform course. Here, I logically show you how it doesn't fit, Mr. Tasovac. It would be fine if you would accept, if you were to agree. The assumption of a reform course is respect for the rule of law. We have also established in the light of our amendments and in our debate here today, Mr. Tasovac, that this proposal violates the principle of rule of law. If the principle of rule of law is violated, then we come to a logical conclusion, to one proof that this government is not taking a reform course, Mr. Tasovac. I ask you to answer this question as a third question for the two of us, which we are asking for the purpose of our amendment to Article 4. The bill, which I think, for a reason, rightly, we call a patch of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31105	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31106	So, honourable MPs, nothing has changed here in the formulation except that the date has changed. It's exactly the same formula you voted for. As for the government act, which will in particular concern the property. As for this third question, I'm not sure we agreed to the formulation, so I can hardly give you an answer, because we disagree in the formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31107	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm in favour of these amendments being refused. I might vote, and I voted in favour of some amendments to these proposals, but afterwards I concluded that they do not vote for their own proposals. Mostly to us delivering I don't know how many hundreds of proposals, I think it's been over 1,500, out of those 1,500, I believe that they haven't voted for 90% of their amendments to this National Assembly at all. That's one reason why I think we should reject the amendments of the proposings, because they don't believe in their own amendments themselves, and they don't vote for them themselves, so why should we trust that kind of proposal, and then vote for something that they won't vote for themselves. The second reason is that the amendment's proposings, in my opinion, are also causing suspicion, because they are known to the public because one of them ripped out the newspaper, means one note, and I can't believe that anyone can talk about the media, about freedom of the press, about freedom of information, and that it rips out a printed medium publicly in front of the cameras, no matter how much trouble I have on that and similar media, the tabloids. Another reason why I think it should be rejected, because in a certain way another promoter does not give confidence, since he was a party friend of Jova Kapicic, who was known for his campaign for freedom of the media by establishing the Goli Island and thousands and thousands of people expelled. They tried to make such a man democratic. I think whoever was hanging out with him was trying to represent as a democracy what was going on on the naked island, someone who was in charge of DB, Ozni, etc... I think we should think a lot about that sensitive area, like freedom of the media and information. On any amendment, I have a reserve for the three reasons I have listed, and therefore I advise my fellow MPs, which Mr Djukanovic will surely confirm, that this kind of amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31109	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Balsa Bozovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to address you as one of my predecessors, since we're not related, and I'm guessing that with the predecessor he is as soon as he can address you that way. The amendment I submitted with my colleague Balša Bozovic also refers to Radio Yugoslavia and here were said to have different views on certain issues in this law by the opposition. Of course there are different attitudes, we do not find monolitence a virtue, which I do not always think is the case with representatives of the congregation's majority who are always being raised and the word "democracy" is very rarely used in their exhibitions. However, I must point out that they have also shown a kind of difference in attitudes. On the one hand, they have become major advocates of liberal capitalism and privatisation, but then they say it might not be bad for TanjaG to be partially exempt from it. So we all have dilemmas about it. I personally think we're on our way out of the media and we should continue on that path. What's here is the idea, or the debate, and I think that all these questions are legitimate is because the essence of all these issues is how to provide independence and how to provide public interest. One principle in the EU is that political influences are completely reduced and disabled if the state exits the ownership structure, and that's okay. Of course, in the meantime, not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the world there have also been new questions as to whether we are now perhaps in a phase where private owners do not provide media independence, but this is one issue for a debate that today is not a topic and in this sense I want to clear up the dilemma on the one hand, and on the other hand, I believe that there is a right in Parliament that in some issues we may have a different opinion. Let me just go back to the amendment in a specific sense. Why did I say all this? I am against extending the deadline and I will vote against this law, but since I assume it will be adopted, my amendment aims to try to put Radio Yugoslavia in the same treatment, or equal treatment with TANJUG. I'd be willing to understand that my amendment is wrong if I got answers to the questions I asked in the principle debate. So I'm interested in why the deadline for them is shorter, since the financial issues for them are much smaller than for TANJUG, since they do not have competition, do not disturb competition, there is no institution on the market that deals with broadcasting programmes in foreign languages. I wonder what's going to happen to that work? Was the government, was it a public service, was there a debate with them? Are we going to lose that action? I don't think that action is irrelevant to a small country like Serbia. I realized that the employees of Radio Yugoslavia are preparing for some kind of social programme, but I'm asking a question, my colleagues were talking about this delay happening for human reasons, so that many people wouldn't stay on the street, so let's see why Radio Yugoslavia, i.e. Their employees should stay on the street early, if that's their destiny, rather than, say, employees at TANJUG or any other media facility. I'm interested in getting answers to these questions, and if we're extending deadlines, then there's equal treatment for all the entities in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31111	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31112	I'd just like to make one thing clear. So it's due on October 31st, which means it can end early. Otherwise, we were in contact with the management and trade unions of Radio Yugoslavia all the time, but also with the RTS Public Service, where we were trying to find different solutions. Simply, it is clear that this shifted period of one month is enough to enable a social programme for employees in Radio Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31113	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31114	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Chairman, when a child draws a horse and says: "This is a horse, it does not mean it is a horse." And so those who are suddenly full of democracy's mouth and bear a premonition of democracy don't mean they're Democrats, because in the media, the worst dictatorship has been implemented. You can use the word “democracy” a hundred times, but the one who overuses it means that there is absolutely nothing democratic inside of him, but is trying so falsely to represent himself. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, if we're talking about it here, first let me deny something that's been said. I didn't advocate that TANJUG might be part of the government. I was just asking if that's what you're thinking, because all the states in the world have a government agency that monitors the government's work. Whether or not it will be, I have no idea. I wish I knew. As for Tanjug himself, there may be a best example of how the media worked here. We had a state agency that had been down for 17 years, destroyed, because then the government favored only two private agencies, and this state was destroying it. Today, when you have the agency's fully independent work, and that's what the world media has transmitted, even the world's agencies, you have today a profitable TANJUG, which is in plus and which is doing well, and none of them will say it. Say that at your time TANJUG was down, that it was a failed firm, and it was a state agency. Now you're whining about the TANJUG you used to destroy. Today there's a TANJUG in the plus, today the TANJUG is working very nicely. Whether he'll be privatized, we don't know that, we'll see from a public call. Anyway, the state is pulling out of the media, so we'll see how this goes on, but it really doesn't make any sense that you're respecting someone's story about whether they're using the word democracy or not, because you've shown on your case what dictatorship means in the media, and that's what media owners saw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31115	The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31116	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, although the SPS supported the adoption and adoption of all three media laws last year, I, however, submitted an amendment on behalf of the SPS to Article 4. The law we are considering today, which refers to Article 148, i.e. quite precisely, which refers to the Federal Public Institute Radio Yugoslavia, which, as in the case of some other media, extended the deadline for the privatisation process not until July 31st, but until October 31st. Why do I feel that these four months are also extremely important for Radio Yugoslavia? We all know here, we're politicians that Yugoslavia no longer exists as a state, it's about Radio Yugoslavia, but I also want to point out, as one of the opposition colleagues said that he doesn't know what his name is now called, which is the name under which he broadcasts Radio Yugoslavia, I'm going to say and remind you, that it's about the International Radio of Serbia, which is spoken next to the Serbian language, in 11 languages, in 11 world languages. Let me read the world languages so some of them don't leave out: English, French, Russian, Spanish, German, Arabic, Chinese, Albanian, Greek, Hungarian and Italian. By reading these languages, you're now imagining that suddenly by some form of circumstance, I'm not saying that it's going to happen, but a radio that's being broadcast on a short wave through an international frequency of 6100, that it suddenly shuts down. Not only to silence that Serbian voice, but to silence the interpretation of the most important news from Serbia in all 11 languages. Then who will interpret from the point of view of the state and national interest of the Republic of Serbia the most important events in the world? We live in the 21st century, and we put great hopes into the most modern forms of communication and broadcasting. We know that this International Radio of Serbia is broadcast via satellites and the Internet. So, you can't just hear the voice of Serbia, I deliberately emphasize the word "the voice of Serbia", because if you type on your computers the domain of Serbia's international radio, you type the word "Serbia's" point, org. There is an entire mosaic of the most important information from the Republic of Serbia. So, I with this amendment that was rejected, with due respect for the reasons given by the ministry, which is that the focus on the social programme, for the orientational statement of 95 employees in the International Radio of Serbia, is that there is enough time for them to get involved in this social programme. I respect that, too. In these transition years, we have been used to getting along in the labour market, and I want to point out that it is from 95 employees, who certainly respect and who have achieved high standards of professional journalism not only in the field of radio journalism, but also these languages I have read themselves, talk about an exceptional quality translation service. If these people lose their jobs one day, I'm sure their quality, their experience, their professionalism will allow them to find their place on the labour market. But in my application for the amendment, I want to stress the solutions. Perhaps this month enough to consider the fate of Serbia's International Radio. I would also point out that although it is a radio service, this service via the interactive map "Beautiful Serbia", supported by the Ministry of Information and Culture, also His Holiness Patriarch Serbian Iriney, is an interactive map, where videos from our beautiful homeland are available, where not only our diaspora, but all people who are interested in visiting Serbia are interested in seeing how beautiful and attractive our country is to visit. The interactive map of Serbia is also available for five foreign languages. I will try to speak a language that our distinguished minister certainly understands well. We are all aware here that the reform metronome is a quick pace for law-making and law enforcement, but it is also a matter of saying, and of developing, not only the hearing of those who propose and adopt laws, but also the hearing of those who are in charge of implementing that law. I therefore stress against my fellow opposition that not only the Ministry is responsible for the implementation of the law, all those authorities, i.e. in-coherent bodies, who were to develop a privatisation programme, who were to submit a report to the Privatisation Agency, but it seems that by the last moment some of them did not believe that indeed the state of Serbia had firmly decided to comply with European and world-wide modern standards and to withdraw from the media. So I stress that this is an interactive relationship where we all have to have hearing about what developed countries of the world are doing. I also stress the two models, which are just people employed in the International Radio Serbia, stressed that in the modern world in the field of media or world services, there are two possible modes and I think there is time to find a solution within these two modes and to fit the International Radio Serbia into one of these two modes. I may use too strong a word, why turn off the International Radio of Serbia if there are examples of independent world services known to BBC, Voice of America, Free Europe, Radio Frans International, Chinese Radio, Russian Radio Sputnik, just to mention some. There are also in our close environment radio services that act as special parts of public service, with a special way of financing. It is the Voice of Croatia, Radio of Bulgaria, Radio of Romania, Glass of Turkey, Radio of Spain, Polish Radio, Radio of Dust International, the Czech Radio, even the Ukrainian International Radio. So it is possible to list, because as a shut down International Radio of Serbia, who will then provide an adequate picture of Serbia in the world? I hold in my hand a serious research done by an internationally renowned house to strengthen the image of the countries "Pablik riljšn". They were doing an analysis of the content of American media which largely form public opinion. You see this red circle, it's Serbia. Compared to the frequency of key words presented by Serbia in the world, we see that at a time when this study was done in 2011, 2012, key words by Serbia were, quote some -- Kosovo, NATO, Syria, war crimes, genocide, The Hague, Srebrenica, bombing. The only positive words that were presented by Serbia were, as today applies to our athletes whose symbol – Novak Djokovic, either energy or some product that is international, which is our red gold, raspberries. Just now that some of these negative keywords are being re-placed and presented in these words by Serbia, which will only mention Srebrenica, a question arises and a requirement that a way and moderation be found for such a medium as the International Radio Serbia to survive and live. The people of this house have already spoken with you and commend your good will to talk, as well as with the representatives of the government, one of the modes is to find a way to co-operate with the public service, RTS, not to find some niche where this radio will be able to continue its fact, its 80-year operation, that these high-quality journalists, translators, technical staffs can be used and financed by some project financing modes. So, regardless of whether it is the month which is if, and we will vote this law and the Socialist Party of Serbia supports this law in principle, we have already said this publicly, and yet I think that there can be some modality, to find a good political will, to find a solution to the survival of the International Radio of Serbia. Just today, as we are meeting and considering in particular this bill, I would point out that in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, a business council is being established for the diaspora, because the International Radio of Serbia is also talking to our diaspora, which numbers some three and a half million citizens, i.e. citizens of Serbia, citizens and citizens of some other countries at the same time, and it means that this short wave at the frequency of 6,100 is not silenced that they can continue to track the portal "Glas of Serbia" through their computers. I think that perhaps through these types, which and the windows opened by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, our diaspora can be animated and that there are alternative sources of funding being sought, and eventually stressed that the survival of Serbia's international radio service is not only supported by individuals. It's just impressive that not only journalists' professional associations, even short-frequency fans signed petitions, athletes, journalists, artists, musicians. So, I have a lot of votes – yes. It may not be possible to extend this period for the privatisation process now, but alternative solutions must indeed be sought. So this exhibit of mine was some kind of appeal not to really silence the voice of that media called the International Radio of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31117	Thank you, Mrs. Vukomanovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Tasovac. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31118	Yes, good will exists, it existed all the time, that constant contacts with Raja Yugoslavia existed also all the time. However, it seems to me that at this point very important and that we are responsible enough not to give people false hope that only sounds good. We have already moved here within a month to enable and here I appeal to the leadership of Radio Yugoslavia to determine the maximum part of it that has worked together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the Ministry of Economy in order to enable a social programme for, in my opinion, 95, if I am not mistaken, employees in Radio Yugoslavia. We are facing a time when the digital revolution dramatically changes the world around us, where new platforms appear. I am familiar with the expertise of people who work in Radio Yugoslavia completely. But time will show through which new platforms we will build these communication channels that you are now talking about. I wouldn't just like your presentations, and I'm sure that wasn't the goal, to take it as any message to stall this whole process, because there have been such calls in the previous nine months since the adoption of sublegal acts or 11 years very much towards local media and local self-government. I'd just end up with that at this point we've been forced to simply move this deadline to the reform process in four months, but I think that's the deadline anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31119	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31120	Well, here, since I only have two minutes, I'll say that Mrs. Vukomanovic spoke as if she were a member of the turn. So, I stand behind every word she said and Mr. Tasovac, I now understand that only the SNS is for the International Radio of Serbia to be shut down, which broadcasts language in 11 world languages for 80 years and that in the age of modern technologies can give importance to Serbia in all matters, from education, culture, foreign investment, tourism, everything else. That radio needs to help it change its way of functioning, digitize, make some more changes. Is it true, Mr. Tasovac, that this frequency will be occupied by an Albanian radio station and is it true that it is in a hurry? Is it true that because of this it is one month, when it comes to the International Radio of Serbia? Mr. Tasovac will be able to verify that. Why is the International Radio "Serbia" accelerated, and why are you talking about the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? So, you've determined the fate of the International Radio Serbia. It's not a question of a local media. It is a matter of the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Vukomanovic listed all countries that have international radio and broadcast a programme in languages that are significant to them because of the international position of these institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31121	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Before that, Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31122	I really can't answer these questions about conspiracy theory. I repeat once again that the definition stood in the previous law, and since you fully agree with the Member who spoke before you, I answered her very extensively, so that you may consider it an answer to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31123	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer, but just because one party insists on grammatical errors, so when one doctor uses the right instead – I have two minutes, he says – I have two minutes. Just grammatically, when we insist, then we insist until the end, given that the media often exposes MPs to the ruling coalition by correcting the lapsus, by correcting grammatical errors, just once again correcting the professor of legal science who teaches at the state college, but a little while, a certain grammatical error that should not happen to such a highly educated person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31125	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31126	Unfortunately, demagogy continues. Of course, there's now a moaning for the International Radio Serbia. I'm just asking one question, Mr. Becic, and you're a witness, you've been in political life for so many years, and so many of our colleagues here -- do you know any campaign that the RS has led through that International Radio, let's say that some of our interests are affirmed at the time, for example. while Boris Tadic was president of the state? Or even some government that was decorated in a party where the applicant of the amendment was the head of the parliamentary group – what did we do through that radio station in the first place to affirm somewhere in RS? Now I'm asking you specifically, all of them across the street – which one of them even heard there was this radio station? I'm saying they had no idea until now that people came out to strike, and now all of a sudden there's a story about how there's a radio station going off that, I don't know, has defined our interests. I ask the question – what campaign did we take through that radio station? I would really like someone to answer me because now suddenly they suddenly remembered the sad fates of the workers who were there, and they didn't think of them at all once during their government and didn't even care about that station, they didn't even care, they didn't even know it existed at all. That might be a turnaround now. Now they remembered, but you know what, I should have thought about it earlier and I sincerely hope, depending on whether or not it will come to privatisation, if it doesn't come that the RS will still have a lot more hearing and through that radio station really affirm some of our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31127	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I already said I wouldn't want to remember those times. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31128	Dear fellow MPs, I want to explain, we may not have understood each other, but the word itself says - International Radio Serbia, it is not intended for domestic information. I think media freedom is booming here, the minister himself has already said, there are around 1500 different media in Serbia. We are very well informed about what is happening in Serbia, but anyone who has travelled abroad and who has had close encounters with our diaspora, from America through other continents, Europe, needs to know how important it is to hear the Serbian word abroad. So, this service is designed to inform our people abroad, and also those people whose native language is one of these 11 languages, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where the truth in Serbia is interpreted exclusively by foreigners in those foreign languages. We know very well that since the start of the Yugoslav crisis, when it comes to Yugoslavia, we have paid a very high price for this interpretation. In the 21st century, there is one term that says: hybrid war. A colleague should be studying some modern currents. Information is a weapon, peaceful or combative, and it's a very important interpretation. Who's going to offer that interpretation from Belgrade, Serbia, to the world if we don't? So you can't observe everything - who was in power. Thank God, these 25 years, it seems that all relevant political parties have come to power, but therefore, I ask you, that one day when we all go into political retirement, that we are truly satisfied with what we have advocated for Serbia's state and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31129	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mr Becicu, the Honorable Minister of Tasovac and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, and you notice a great pleasure and joy, first of all, of the Members of the SNS when we get the right to explain the amendments. The amendment to Article 5 of this proposal is the last amendment to this bill submitted by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and myself. During today's debate, gentlemen, we have asked a large number of questions. Minister Tasovac answered some of the questions we asked. We have seen that there is no agreement on a large number of matters concerning this bill today and I, for the end, have only one more question for this amendment that I would like to ask our Minister of Culture and Information, Mr. Tasovac. That amendment is to Article 5. The bill of law, but Minister Tasovac, is related to Article 4. Public information law and media. I am deeply interested in one reflection, the thinking of Minister Tasovac of one fact that exactly one year ago, Minister Tasovac, on June 29, 2014 was broadcast the last time of the show – The impression of the week. I am interested in your reflection, your thinking, as it concerns, the respected Minister of Tasovac, a member of this law, in which he writes – public information is free and is not subject to censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31131	Please return to the amendment, Mr. Pavicevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31132	Today we haven't had a chance to hear anything about it, dear gentlemen and respected Minister Tasovac, now is the opportunity to hear a word about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31133	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31134	Thank you. I am pleased that, at the end of the debate, we heard the request of an MP, however, who submits this amendment, that the state should interfere with the private media editorial programme, which, of course, is something contrary to sound logic and I, of course, welcome that this country does not interfere at all with the work of the media, but I see that he would love it very much. As for the mentioned show, I invite him to ask his colleagues who are sitting next to him, since this investor who owns two televisions, which seems to me to be a little conflict, but anyway, they brought in and told us it was the best possible investor in our media, so ask him why he downloaded the show from his programming scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31135	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31136	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I simply can't believe it, I'm surprised, astonished, what my colleague Babic would say, shocked. I didn't expect from one, which I thought was a democratically defined personality, no matter what she was hanging out with Jovo Kapicic in LDP, I didn't expect to be advocating the state's influence on private media. On the one hand, it is up to the states to come out of the media, but on the other hand, it is for the state to affect private media, to return or broadcast the show, which is also a private, authorial show of one author, to return one private show to a private broadcaster and to force the state to make the private broadcaster broadcast and to enter disputes between the authors of the show, the owners of television and editors of that television. I was simply, as Mr Babic puts it, shocked by the behavior and persuasion of my fellow MP, whom I thought by character and traits was one democratic figure and in such a way that I respected him. So if the reason for submitting this amendment is the impression that there is no impression, I am to reject this amendment with indignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31137	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Monday, June 29th, 2015, starting at 14.15pm, as the day for voting on all agenda points of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-29-0.u31138	Dear People's MPs, before we move to decision-making, we ask that we determine the quorum, so I urge you to insert your identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present. 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 153, v - 12, abstentions - no, three of the 168 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, most of the votes. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivkovici Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 171 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP, Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 160 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - one, the abstentions – there is no vote, 162 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karvidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 159 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 167, v - one, abstention - no, three of the 171 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivkovici Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare that there was no vote of 170 of the total attendance of the 174 Messengers against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 159 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for six, against none, the abstentioned, did not vote 168 of the total attendance of the 174 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare that there was no vote of 170 of the total attendance of the 174 Messengers against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by four of the total 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – 13, the abstentions – there are no, there are no three out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 26 June 2015, at 12 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Marjanović, at a session on June 26, 2015, at 12 hours and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make sure that the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 26 June 2015, at 12 hours and 46 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please state whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 154 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP, at a session on June 26, 2015, at 12 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, without a reference to a member who was injured. Please decide, it's a bit of a weird situation. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Marjanović, at a session on June 26, 2015, at 12 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 150 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on June 26, 2015, at 12 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on June 26, 2015, at 13 o'clock and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 143 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
