ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40211	Thank you, Vice President, I will use the time of the parliamentary group if I miss the time. In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which, after Article 171a, is added to the new Article 171a, deletes the last position of the newly added Article 171a, which we have proposed, with the reason that the new addition of Article 171a in Article 7 creates an exception to the application of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds. The general act of the Faculty of Health Professionals, which determines the amount of the increase of the teacher’s salary referred to in Article 1(1), which shall be paid out of the means achieved by providing health services, shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 4 of the Agreement laid down in Article 4. The law on the temporary editing of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for public funds users. Article 4 The law on the temporary editing of the base for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent income from the users of public funds, reads: “The general or individual act provisions are invalid, except for an individual act which increases wages based on advances, which increase the basics, coefficients and other elements, i.e. new elements are introduced on the basis of which the amount of salaries and other permanent income is increased in respect of the entities referred to in Article 2 of this Act, adopted at the time of application of this Act.” It is indicative that, through the explanation of the bill, the proposer does not give absolutely no reason why the salaries of the faculty of health professions would be excluded from the general regime established by the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds. The conclusion is that the legislator tried to smuggle the disputed position 7, through the bill and the existing legal system, which is exactly the reason for the amendment that we propose to delete it. In view of the fact that the law in the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes, is kept by the beneficiaries of public funds by the financial system in the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the system of salaries and earnings in the public sector, we are confident that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40212	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40213	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Associates, respects fellow MPs, with the respect of the motion that this proposal further regulates the bill that is on the table today, I suggest that this amendment be rejected precisely because I personally believe that teachers who are also clinicians are a very specific person for this reason, because here I will give you an example, a professor of surgery who is also a clinician, therefore, and a teacher at a medical school, he is also an educational worker and a health worker, he also deals with education on one side, but also deals with operations, surgical operations and in a direct way participates in health care. However, I would also like to place a focus on this member, and your amendment in a different connotation, and that is primarily a connotation that this area is being regulated for the first time, that for the first time, we have one situation that everything that happens in one joint operation, the joint work of the medical school and the clinic is legally regulated. Now I'm putting it in some higher aspect, and that's primarily the work of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. What's very important is what I pointed out when we spoke in the debate in principle, which is that this law only defines this area in a general way. Personally, I think it was necessary to find a way to pay them properly. We also heard from the opposition and from the ranks of positions that these people really represent the cream of our society and that there must be a way that they adequately and reward themselves for their work in our country. So, in this context, I believe that the amendment, too, should be rejected because, in this way, the already mentioned article, which has already been defined in the proposal for a law, finally put in place this legislative regulation, and that the rules will be regulated later on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40214	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40215	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I'll just remind you that this is one thing that is not by law or by present or any other law that has been so far. This is something that takes 60 years and we've all watched and put it on the side or under the carpet so it doesn't get rid of it. No matter how we look, we can't separate. It's an example of a surgeon or anyone, we can't separate his work in the O.R. and that the students or doctors are on specialization or anyone else who needs to be in the O.R. to see and learn something. It really doesn't make sense to separate those two things and say, you know, you're a teacher now, you're half an operation, and you're a surgeon. I really don't think there's any need. What we did with this is that the law is respected, what I told you, this professor is being conducted at the university, he works at a clinic where he doesn't have a work book, one of them is the director of a clinic or something else, and it's all without a work book there. There's no mention of anything being reduced or increased or anything, we're just putting it in one account. To make it unique, that we don't have one profit here, one profit at the Ministry of Health, and another at the Ministry of Education. I said again, this was a proposal and this will be a transitional solution. For all final solutions, we are extremely open and for everything that we agree on, any good proposal that will regulate this will be no problem at all. Here we just want to respect the law and that one thing that can't be separated not to separate it, and so far it's been separated. So there's no other reason or reason or anything. I hope I've been able to explain to you what our goal is and what we've been trying to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40216	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40217	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Ministers of Loncar and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, are just respected gentlemen, violated members of the 1st and 108th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since Mr. Becic did not suggest to our guest, Minister Loncar that when we have a debate on amendments that the minister could only use two minutes in total after one amendment, and Minister Loncar now spoke for two minutes and 39 seconds. I think it was necessary for me to intervene now for the injury of the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Becic interrupts the opposition MPs before the time runs out, and when the guests from the Government seem to come to them, the honored gentlemen add those seconds he took away from us. I suggest Mr. Becic that you confess here that you have made a mistake, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in these members, that you now give yourself a warning measure and tell yourself Mr. Becic – if I violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly again today, I will give myself a warning measure, which means, gentlemen, that Mr. Becic then goes to the Administrative Board to organise a trial there, to give him a fine of 7,000 dinars, as I once paid for no reason, and to reprove himself for that mistake he made. I think it would be appropriate for you to act as one of the chairmans of this situation when the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly is clearly violated, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40218	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Noticed your absence at yesterday's session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40219	You want me to talk for another two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40220	I think this topic was very important, that Mrs. Olena Papuga asked the question and that she deserved the answer to be given to the end by the minister. Also, Mr. Pavicevic, you called on the wrong member, you should have called on Article 158, but if you had been to yesterday's session, you would have witnessed that your colleague Mr. Zivkovic spoke for over two minutes, if he hadn't been interrupted, if we had also been tolerant to the opposition. So, Mr. Pavicevic, wait until today's session and finally comment. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yes, thank you. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40221	I would like to point out the argument not to accept the amendment as well, because I think Mrs. Papuga is indeed a very responsible MP and is very responsible for the sessions, but that there are some ambiguities that may be in the general public as well, so I would simply like to give my argument as to why I do not think this amendment should be accepted. We'll agree that what's new in these changes, and your request stems from that, is that, on behalf of its own resources, the RFO will increase financial resources to the medical sciences colleges. Why do I think that's quite correct? In addition to the argument we had already had to hear from Mr. Minister and Mr. Laketić, because in those environments where there are medical schools, medical sciences, health care is at a higher level than in others. There are an incomparably greater number of services that can only be found in college bases, at clinics where students learn, so there is an incomparably greater complexity of these services and of course the Fund must reward people who do the most complex activities. To make it perhaps more plastic, I'll give you an example. If a professor leads his students, specialists in the operating room to do cataracts, he also performs a health function and teaches his students how to do it. They watch, learn skills, sometimes students especially specialize. So that's how it's intertwined with the educational level of practical exercises, the acquisition of skills and what with the acquisition of theoretical knowledge, and at the same time it's a health care service, that the Fund is now, for the first time, in accordance with these amendments of the law, to pay the one who is actually the source of such a high level of health service. These are teachers and associates and not directly to them, because then it could be understood in the way you interpreted it, but it would give a college that would assess, in accordance with the Higher Education Act, what financial distribution of acquired money from their own resources would be. And some other MPs had a surprise as to why I'm really more than happy that we're solving this problem. It is now neither in line with the Labour Act nor with the Health Protection Act, nor with the Higher Education Act. It's now being solved for the first time, and that's why this step is very good, and I think you had all this information that maybe the amendment wouldn't have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40222	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40223	I'm just saying, don't get it wrong, we're not against being rewarded by surgeons or doctors who work and as professors at colleges, but what's kind of centralised. So it's only possible for clinicians who live in large centers. How is a doctor from Somboro, or from Subotica, or from somewhere else, from Svilinc, or who doesn't know where he's going to work as a college professor? Perhaps it should be paid attention, that it is really only possible for doctors who work in large clinical centres to be teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40224	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, for the first time since I was elected MP in the Republic Assembly, I am not opposed to the harsh laws proposed by the government and a particular ministry, because I believe this proposal is good because it solves a decades-old problem, as Mr. Loncar said. Namely, what's this about? Our parliamentary group, whose representative I am today, which is the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, has not tabled any amendments for two reasons. The first reason is that, according to the minister, I fully agree with this, these framework members of the law that allow for a more detailed and comprehensive solution to the decades-old problem. The second reason is that the Ministry as a representative of the Government has the right to its position and opinion, and we'll see when these sublegal acts come to light and whether it's ideal or it's flawed, and then we'll suggest changes. Matter is very ticky, I don't know why, but it can be very easy to take control, to misread, and to bring evil blood to health workers. I'll try in a few minutes, since I've had the good fortune and pleasure of being a worker of the Republic Fund, to explain to you how this system works, so that citizens can understand what we're talking about here. So in order for the health care system to work, personnel must be educated. Due to the specificity of the profession, medical professionals can only be educated in health care institutions, they cannot be empirically educated. So far, it has been for someone to be able to do science, to be a professor, to be able to advance in the profession and to be educated, it must be a health institution worker, and in the Republic of Serbia it is a clinical centre. Here is the education of future doctors, future students, i.e. students studying medicine, dentistry, pharmacies. As a medical worker, i.e. The clinical center, he competes and gets elected to call teachers, assistants, whatever he's in medicine. So he's got a contract at the Clinical Center and he's got a contract at medical school. That's what the people were complaining about. How can someone have two contracts at the same time? That's what Mr. Minister says. That's illogical. That's impossible. On the other hand, it is impossible for these people, under the Law on Higher Education and the Labour Act, to pay only 30% for working at the clinical center. Why? Because they spend the whole working day working at the clinical center and, as Professor Slavica said, educating the staff. Because besides teaching and teaching, medical students and dentists are educated by watching and practicing. Someone has to channel it, someone has to run those exercises, and someone has to educate them, because they're not working on dolls, they're working on living people. To introduce this now into the legal framework, medical faculty workers, medical and dental professors will only be medical faculty workers. And the question is -- how are we going to valorize this work that's evident, because those people are doing that salary at the clinical center? By having the Fund, the Medical School and the Medical Institute conclude a contract where the Fund will work, those funds that they earn at the Clinical Center will be paid to the Medical Faculty, and then the Medical Faculty will give to teachers. Why should this attitude 7 not be accepted? Because by law, you can't raise someone's salary. So this attitude 7 must remain in this law, so that people can receive what they have earned. That's no pay raise. They will pay taxes and contributions, and their wages will not be higher, they will be the same. That's why it has to be excluded, because if this attitude is excluded 7, then people in fact could only have salaries in college, and he, to remind you, belongs to the Ministry of Education, not the Ministry of Health. Here they could have 30% of the salary of a clinical physician, even though they work 100%. It's just the law of something that hasn't been resolved in decades. What's that gonna look like in the end? As Mr. Minister has said, we will see, but this member of the law gives the possibility that now the Ministry with its professional services will go further into solving this problem, because there is opening up a light of problems. These problems are not related, I repeat, to insurance companies, i.e. for patients and are not related to the teaching and scientific studies of medical and dental colleges. It's about how offices are going to be dealing with personnel lists, designing personnel, but it's something Batut does, which is done by the Ministry of Health and what the Republic Fund does. The point is, this can't hurt, and it gives it a chance to be much better. We'll see what it looks like in the future. That's why we haven't made any amendments, and we're not hard against the bill, because we think it'll make a better deal, and it'll solve that problem, that people finally have a solution to their status, and that they know how much they earn, and not that someone has two contributions paid, so at the end of the year they're going to the Fund to apply for a refund on social and pension contributions, which is wrong. This is how it's going to be, I'm assuming, and I deeply hope it's the Ministry's idea of getting rid of it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40226	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40227	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I fully agree with Mr. Minister, Dr. Laketic, the chairman of the Health Committee and, of course, with the very constructive discussion of fellow Bradic. Personally, it bothers me that the proposer or the amendments were not on the Committee itself, because then a much clearer position would be and I think they would give up on this amendment. But, I say, personally, I have a problem with this conclusion of the amendment promoter, which imposes that the legislator tried to smuggle the disputed position 7 through the draft law on the existing legal system. So it's obvious that the proposer's intention wasn't to smuggle anything, but to go, and this is the beginning of editing this part of the Health Protection Act. So I think this amendment should be rejected and I fully support the arguments given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40228	Thank you, Mr. Giric. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branko Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40229	The Honorable Chairman, respected health ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow Members, respected MPs, spoke about the financial aspect of this issue, but I would, in my own case, show what the heart of the bill is. As a young doctor, back in 1984, I got a job at the Clinical Centre of Serbia as a clinical physician at a neurosurgery clinic. In my work book, it says date - September 03rd, 1984, I'm starting a working relationship. On 31 October 1993, I interrupt my working relationship at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and the next day I get a permanent working relationship, meaning a 100% working relationship at the University of Belgrade Medical School, as an assistant. The law so far, the formal legal framework so far says – Dr. Djurovic, you are a health worker until 31 October 1993. From November 1st to this day, when I hope it will be the day of the vote, I, after crossing, unfortunately, became older, got to the regular professor. So, from November 1st to today, I'm not a health worker. And what am I doing at this time interval? I'm in surgery today, I'm in neurosurgery at the same time during these neurosurgery operations. Who? Medical students, post-graduate doctors, masters, doctoral dissertations in neurosurgery, specialization and subspecialization. For the first time, we who do our jobs to this day get formal legal status that we are health workers. I'm doing these neurosurgery operations illegally to this day. The only thing the law admits to me is education, so a dozen teachers and associates get the status of health workers for the first time now, something that's irrational. The state audit institution gave a positive signal. Wait, guys, what are you doing? It has nothing to do with common sense. It's irrational. The health ministry reacts immediately, the Health Ministry working group is forming. Who's in that task force? People who know that problem. The president of the task force is the president of SANU, a former dean of the University of Belgrade Medical Faculty. Who are the other members of this task force? The current Belgrade University Rector, former Dean, all those who were trying to say – well, wait, people, give us formal legal status that we are health workers, don't let the law see us as illegals. This task force passed the roof law, for the first time. Will this task force continue its work? He'll keep going. This is the occasion I show satisfaction and gratitude to the Ministry of Health for the first time, after 60 years, that triggered this. No one wanted to catch hot potatoes. They all put it under the carpet. And this is the beginning, we'll figure it out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40230	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go, Mrs. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40231	Thank you, Chairman. I believe, as well as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, that the proposed amendment should be rejected because amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, in particular Articles 171 and 173, create preconditions to finally address the decades-long problem of paying for clinical physicians because the possibility and space for uniting these two salaries is being opened, by concluding a mutual contract between a health institution, a university, the health work of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In fact, they conclude a mutual agreement on providing health services both in this way and in the way of payment, so we will clearly define what is the percentage of someone in education, and what is the percentage of someone in providing health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40232	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40233	Thank you very much. The motives of my report are next. I've also heard further arguments from the promoter, and I think we all owe one explanation together. First of all, when we talk about small-scale clinicians, they're not defined by this law. So, a small-centre clinician who works as a surgeon, urologist, orthopedic, can be a teacher of a particular medical school if that hospital is a teaching base of the university. So, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that clinicians from small areas are defined by this law if teachers are in college. So it defines one other area, or medical colleges, to assess whether a particular hospital will be their teaching base. As for Mr Bradic's discussion, which I can say is really open and constructive, I absolutely agree that the area will edit the additional rules, but I would once again quote and repeat the words of the minister, that there is an absolute openness to define all the unknowns in those rules and all those problems that are related to the solution in this area. So, absolutely one clear and defined situation regarding both this member and the law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40234	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic and Gordana Comic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we now have one illogicality. You, as you propose the law, are in fact introducing inequality for the duration of the traineeship for healthcare professionals with high professional training and health associates with high professional training for which the traineeship remains for 12 months, while for healthcare professionals you reduce it to six months. The illogicality is that you are in line with the next amendment submitted by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic, where they suggest that health associates be reduced to an internship that is somewhat different from the amendment we propose, you say it is impossible because the traineeship must take longer to train them for the work they are doing. When we propose the same thing for healthcare professionals, you refuse that amendment. Now you simply need to explain here how you have different arches for healthcare professionals with high professional training and health associates with high professional training. You say this is necessary so that young doctors can get a job as soon as possible. We assume that's why you're cutting this internship short. However, we have not noticed that young doctors have stopped being banned from public sector employment, although we have suggested that they be excluded from it. We didn't notice that the law we passed, when we also said there would be no increase in the number of young doctors' staff, yields results. It's about the Specialization Act, because young doctors continue to leave the country more and more mass because it's not a problem in the length of the traineeship, but it's a problem that you create conditions where those in Serbia absolutely have no chance to stay, to earn and to live with dignity from their work and to spend their lives as they probably imagined when they were enrolled in medical school, knowing how long schooling is and how long it's a long-term process. That's why you won't solve any problems. There remains a dilemma as to why it takes a person six months to train for a job to be done tomorrow, why does it take someone a year, if in both cases they have a high level of expertise. Again, what's most important is that you don't solve any of the problems of young doctors' employment without talking about how few people who are able to get a job should be aware that tomorrow's bus driver will have a higher salary than they are, even when they specialize in what they've been trained for ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40236	Dr. Milisavljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40237	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we discuss this amendment, what I want to draw attention to, is one anomaly that we notice about this one work with young colleagues, whether it's six, nine or 12 months. What's more important is what these young doctors get from medical school teachers, from people who lead, practically, this internship in hospitals where they perform their medical training. Mr. Becic, I'm using the time of the authorized representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40238	Yes, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40239	I believe that back in 20 and a few years in my one clinical trial, I noticed that young doctors are not given enough attention as older colleagues. When I was going to specialize in otorinolaringology, they told me – the trade is being stolen, my colleague, you have to be there all the time, you have to breathe behind the neck of the primarius or the professor and watch what he does. I mean, it is, and it is true. However, I am witnessing that in some situations our young colleague, in a desire to get to the O.R., in a desire to get to a more difficult patient who might be diagnosed, who might be able to have an abdominal palpation or an auscultation of the torax, or do a puncture or do anything, that they are not practically in this internship that is necessarily prescribed enough by older colleagues. I think we need to appeal that these young people, these young colleagues, have to pay a lot more attention to them, because I am a witness, I am going to say very responsibly, that in many situations they only come in a trainee's book, in an intern's book, get a signature and move on. I'm not giving anyone a signature on the blank unless he spends 30 days at my clinic. I'm not giving it to him at all, because when you sign, you vouch for that resident, you vouch for that colleague. It's this internship that has to be in the time that the law is framed, that it's fulfilled, that really when a colleague passes that specialist internship, when those six months pass, he visits all these clinics and is familiar with the pathology and medical work of many medical institutions that are within the scope of the internship, is he six, nine or 12 months. I was 12 months old. Now colleagues have six months of internships. I think it's more important than having more serious access to these young colleagues and allowing them to enter the O.R., that they have the opportunity to assist older colleagues and that they acquire one clinical basis and knowledge of what is done in other clinics and what could be sent to one of the clinics as a patient or to establish some speciality, and this is how I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40240	Thank you. The word is Dr. Violet Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40241	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, I would refer to the comments concerning the amendment of Article 4, respectively, the amendment to Article 4 and Article 2 where it is actually requested by amendment that instead of a six-month traineeship for doctors of general medicine, dentistry and pharmacies, it takes nine months. I think it's excessive that the six-month internship, a six-month internship, is increased to an internship of nine months, for the reason that the senior year of the doctor's university of general practice, as well as dentistry and pharmacies, is actually the year where clinical cases are conducted, or where the doctor meets the clinic and prepares for career challenges, as this amendment here is called. I couldn't possibly identify the duration of a traineeship with the readiness of a health care professional for career challenges. I would also disagree that we can connect healthcare professionals whose college takes six years or five years in dentistry and pharmacies with health associates, because health associates do not perform clinical practice as healthcare workers in the previous case I mentioned and it is not certain that a health associate will work in health care. So, I suggest that the amendment be rejected, because I do not see the need to extend the length of the traineeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40242	Thank you. The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40243	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's first see who the health associates are to make an argument as to why I don't think the amendment should be accepted. Health associates are mostly psychologists, defecologists, social workers, people who can work in different institutions when they graduate from college, not just in health care. A psychologist can be an industrial psychologist, he can work in kindergarten, he can work at school. His internship can't be shortened, because actually, before he finishes his internship and passes a professional exam, he can't work on his own anywhere. Whether he's going to work in health care or some other institution, we don't know that in advance. His internship is not good enough to be trained enough for health care jobs. It is a basic argument that those whose programmes are in accordance with the European Directive, with much more practical courses in senior years, and these are the schools of medical science, should differ from those that can work and not health institutions. Therefore, I think that the promoter, the Government, or the Ministry of Health, has made very correct proposals on the length of the internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40244	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40245	Thank you. In the spirit of what Dr Dusan Milisavljevic and Aleksandra Jerkov said, this is a burning problem, especially when it comes to young doctors. What we expect from the state is to pay extra attention to young doctors who are most determined to get out of the country. It would not be right for our young doctors, and we are talking about the internship, to care more about other countries than the Republic of Serbia does. Germany and Sweden and Switzerland and Slovakia and Slovenia care more about our doctors than Serbia. And we talked about it two days ago, when it comes to licenses, so the conditions they have to meet by law to get a license and education. Now I'm deliberately talking a little bit wider about this for a reason not to repeat everything my predecessors said, and on the other hand, just to somehow raise this problem to the highest possible level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40246	I understand, Mr. Bozovic, you're not a doctor, so you need to do it a little bit wider.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40247	What's that all about?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40248	Well, you yourself said you were violating the Rules of Procedure and you weren't talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40249	I didn't say I was breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about the amendment, but with one particular depression because this is a very big problem for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40250	You need to explain a little bit more what you wanted to say. I understood that, and I didn't interrupt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40251	I'll use the MP's time. In order not to repeat everything that Alexandra Jerkov said and all that Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic said, with all that we mentioned two days ago, let me end up in the spirit of the amendment concerning young doctors and their internships. It is very important that this issue be of the highest priority for the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason we have spoken and for education, that young doctors are often victims of some of the interrelationships between their older colleagues, especially when it comes to annual plans for education, where they are, for example. They can't come to order, and you answered that question two days ago, for the simple reason that today we have a situation where not only are employment opportunities very miserable, but for the simple reason that it happens that and when they get hired, as Mrs. Jerkov said, we have a situation that they are so little paid that they are focusing all their energy on finding a solution to their future. And they tend to opt for abroad. That's definitely the biggest problem today. The biggest problem is that there is no possibility of public sector employment. Someone who's been studying for six years, so she's been special for a few years, and then we have a situation where she still has to do an internship from six to 12 months, and we have a problem with how we let these young people at all have any chance of finding their future and some happiness in Serbia. I'm done. It's not good to offer transitional solutions this way. The transitional solutions didn't turn out to be good. Yesterday we also had one law on transitional solutions. And this, when it comes to training for young doctors and when it comes to the state's relationship with them, we have to have concrete solutions. In this regard, the DS suggests that this internship could be nine months, and it is not disputed, but that after those nine months they have the security of state aid, namely safe employment and a secure job. With this in mind and for the next Wednesday together, just with young doctors, we organized a tribune Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, Aris Moosesian of the New Party, precisely wanting to offer young doctors one such option. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40252	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40253	I'll try the shortest and only to the facts. As for employment, last time I told you that nearly a thousand doctors were employed in less than a year and a half. A little less than two thousand specializations were given in less than a year and a half. So these are the facts when we talk about employment. Why do you think our people are going to Germany? You've set an example for Germany, haven't you? Because the same doctors in Germany go where the better pay is, and then Germany runs out of doctors. So this happens in both Germany and Croatia, both in Slovenia and in all countries, means transition. It's not just us. So it's maximum done and got a job by doctors, and got a specialization, a shortened internship. Now that we're back on duty, why is it cut? Because at the age of six, you have this so-called practice and where it's estimated that they spend enough time not having to be after the internship for a year. Why was it left here for 12 months? Because these colleges aren't health professions, they're not in health care. And then it's a healthy logic that it takes him more than six months, if he wants to work in a health profession, that he has to spend and that it's a period that is real and that is everywhere in Europe to adapt, to get to know the system. It's just the reasons, there's no one else or third, or anything. You're saying you're not into transitional solutions. Here, I'll tell you right now, I'm better off doing something than not solving it at all. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40254	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40255	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and his fellow Members, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure for a moment because I personally believe that the speaker, who spoke earlier, did not discuss the amendment and did not discuss what was really being touched on the subject of the traineeship. When we talk about the Pripvacian internship, I think it's really enough to say about the traineeship of health workers and the traineeship of health associates. Health associates, the fact is that workers are other professions, therefore, not health professions, and that they find employment elsewhere except in health care. Therefore, in the final year of their studies, there is no definition of what is defined by an internship to be carried out in the health profession. This is the only reason why health associates cannot, as health workers, have this length of six months' internship, nor health care workers have as health associates the length of the traineeship for 12 months. I think it's explained enough and said enough. What I would also refer to is the presentation of one of the previous speakers and the concept of a specialist internship. That's not the subject of the amendment. First of all, it's not the subject of the amendment, and on the other hand, first of all, it's defined by the laws of medical schools mentoring appropriate clinicians and not clinicians. Chairman, can you put in order?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40256	I ask the SPS MPs to respect the debates a little bit, the distinguished doctors who think they should talk about this topic. As we listen carefully to Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, I think you should listen carefully to the other MPs. (National MP Dejan Radenkovic throws out of place. That's right, Mr. Radenkovic. Please ask your colleagues. (People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic throws out of place. Because there's a lot of noise from your parliamentary group, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40257	May I proceed, Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40258	Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40259	Medical school has its mentors in general hospitals, in health homes, in clinics, whose work is defined by professional rules. It's not defined by this law, and on the other hand it's already defined by the laws of medical school. What I would also refer to in this brief statement is that members of the former regime had plenty of time and space to correct everything that was wrong in the health system in the earlier period. Therefore, I don't consider it valid and I don't find it significant when one of them comes out with different suggestions, which contributes to the fact that doctors are now not employed, and that they were employed, that it's no good now, and that it was good at that time. I've had an internship since 2000, and I know exactly what it was during those years, and I know what it is today. After all, you have heard about the number of doctors employed, but we are also all aware of the facts in which health care is located in countries in transition and, not only in countries in transition, we see that there is an outflow of doctors from EU countries to other countries. I think it's a really much broader problem that we shouldn't discuss today, but absolutely to focus on amendments where there are things where we can deepen the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40260	Thank you, Mr. Lucky. The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40261	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I certainly won't support this amendment, because I don't think it's in line with what's been proposed. The proposal for a health care law has tried to sort out everything that hasn't been done in decades. The only thing that is unclear to me is that colleagues from the same parliamentary group, from the parliamentary group proposing this amendment, do not coordinate, do not have the same attitudes, attitudes are contradictory. One thinks it doesn't matter if the internship lasts six, nine or 12 months. Others point out that the traineeship should last nine months. It's really illogical for me, given that they have fellow doctors in the parliamentary group who need to educate them, if they're not able to know what they're learning at medical school. I really don't think I'd repeat myself if this six-month internship was enough and we had to refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40262	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40263	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I agree that these six months will not endanger what is called the expertise of a fellow trainee who will perform this internship and that this traineeship is in line with what needs to be learned there. I would refer to the discussion of my fellow opposition colleagues, who thought that with this internship or not an internship could affect the employment of a doctor, to remind him that for many years, in the previous regime, there was a ban on employment, a ban on specialization, a ban on me completely incomprehensible, even a ban on volunteer specializations that only this government had decommissioned, to say, under quotes, some time ago, and these volunteer specializations would literally cost no one and cost no one in health, because it is known to everyone that the physician in specialization is the biggest worker in one health institution. He works under his mentor's control and doesn't cost the state much. It was completely incomprehensible to me that these learning options or self - education options were also banned by the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40264	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40265	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, two days ago we talked about these amendments to the Health Protection Act today, a little bit with some major tension. There's no reason to raise the tension around health care, since our health care is in very poor condition. As an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I would like to say that I agree with some colleagues who had previously discussed some of the mistakes that had occurred earlier. Yeah, that was a devastating move for me, which was made in some years behind us, when someone in two years practically commits doctors to not being able to get a job, practically they can't get a specialization, they have to do practically regular clinical work at clinics, and only after two years they can apply for specialization. Also, the ban on specialization, the ban on volunteer specializations at the time of some other ministers, has caused great damage today, practically as an earthquake continues to feel, that one blast wave. What I want to say is the same thing here, I did not consult with my colleagues, I sincerely regret that the Democratic Party, when it had the opportunity, did not take responsibility for health and education, but left those two ministries to coalition partners, in this political reconciliation. In my opinion, these two ministries are most important for the state of Serbia because they are educated by young people and because they treat young people. As far as the current situation is concerned, no well-intentioned person wants to trip the health profession, we all want to come together to a good solution, a sustainable solution for health care, for young colleagues, and that those years that were, for me as a professor of the university, the devastating, when a former minister practically banned, hitched the opportunity, extended the possibility that you couldn't, as a young doctor, get to the specialization. When someone banned you from specialization, it is one trigger, to say – so you are not welcome in our country, you are not welcome in our health profession. Slowly these mistakes are corrected, it takes time, it takes understanding from all sides, health care isn't so easy to solve overnight. That means everyone needs to know. Health care is very sensitive. It's about health policy, our nation's health, and every step must be measured. Some of the mistakes that have happened, here, I want to admit, have been made by some people who have led other parties, I do not want to bear responsibility before the Democratic Party for some of the mistakes that have happened. We want to improve the health sector with the only decent way, with one good reform in the health sector and to make this health system proud of our citizens. I guess that's the idea of both the authorities and the opposition. Because of this, when it comes to health laws in the Serbian Parliament, there is one decent atmosphere and I want us to go back to that one tone that every well-meaning with some good proposals contributes to the improvement of our legal solutions from this sector. I used the time of the authorized representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40266	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40267	Thank you, Chairman. I will speak strictly of the proposed amendment. Of course, I think he should be turned down. I am fascinated by the knowledge of health issues by the quasi health experts who are proposing this amendment. In fact, the amendment should be rejected because this bill sets out a uniformity of the traineeship, both for dentists and pharmacists and doctors, for six months because they already have a mandatory practice at the final year of the study. At the time of my studies, 28 years ago, the medical school lasted five years plus 12 months of mandatory medical training. Someone said from the amendment that they were different arches. No, it's not about the different arches at all. As far as health associates are concerned, they are, as we have heard, logos, psychologists, sociologists, working therapists, etc., that I do not list them, who have not graduated from the university of health profession, and in order to provide services in the health care system must be trained professionally and therefore their internship is 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40268	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40269	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly, I don't know if you've heard that the previous colleague spoke about the quass of health professionals who proposed the amendment. The amendments are proposed by Balša Bozovic, me, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic and Gordana Komic. I don't know what kind of quasi health professionals we are, what exactly the colleague meant, is she contesting the right of the MPs to propose amendments if it's not very narrow from their professional field or profession. Should we organise a discussion in the congregation so that only those who have certain professions can participate in them? We know who's known for representing the quasi something that isn't, especially when it comes to the profession, so I think you had to remind your colleague that you can't bring up the amendments, which is our right, which is our obligation, and what is ultimately our job, that in this way it demeans, insults and that it says that we are some quasi health professionals really weren't in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40270	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I'll take care of it. Do you want the congregations to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40271	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in any case, we will refuse this amendment, or we will not vote for it. I think the explanation was quite well given in the government's explanation. I think it's completely unnecessary for us to expand this discussion now and I think that colleagues from the opposition party may, allow me to express, a little hypocritically use this amendment thinking about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40272	Please, Mr. Mijatovic, respect only your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40273	Okay, okay, if the expression doesn't fit, I'm sorry. Whether nine or six months will affect whether young doctors will be employed and whether or not they will go abroad, I think it is absolutely irrelevant and insignificant in that sense. We forget about each other, that's not the reason for this state of health. A colleague named Laketic says he's been in health care since 2000, so he can see, I've been in health care for 36 years and I can look at all the problems of the health system. Let us not forget that for 15 years, as long as you were in the coalition and held the Ministry of Health, what was done in health care and how long the health system of Serbia was brought in and how much, how many sublegal and other acts that were corrupt, which allowed corruption in health care and which completely undermined the reputation of health workers. This is one of the reasons why young doctors go abroad, because, after all, many have been brought, not exactly to the beggar stick, but to extreme poverty. What this government is now trying to do can't get what's been ruined, 15 years down, to fix it in two or three years. We bring regulations that will affect and restore the material condition and dignity of health workers. This is one small part, one, you can say, and the cosmetic part, but it's an integral part of the new health care law, which in any case will bring dignity back to health workers, which you, your own and your coalition partners, have brought to the lowest possible scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40274	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40275	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, I am really pleased to hear that one truth is being confirmed that we are all together, I am talking about the people of the SNS, we spoke earlier, in a very long period of time, and that is that the health system has not functioned in the period of ex-government, and today we have officially won for it. However, what seems to me to be significantly better is that such recognition is and that such criticism came precisely in the period when power was being exercised because they were then really able to really change the system in the way they talk today. It is something I really appreciate, but Turgenev also said a sentence of his own time that says – the truth that is not spoken at the right time is worse than a lie. I still can't agree to end this claim, but it certainly remains regrettable why there was no fierce criticism from their ranks during that period of government of the former regime. Also, what I'm trying to say is about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that's been advertised, we're speaking here today in light of some medical worker and health associate terms. Obviously, the promoters cannot be health workers, because they are not from the health profession and for these reasons I also interpret this presentation by my colleague Ljubica Mrdaković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40276	Thank you. The word has Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40277	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was encouraged by the previous discussion by Mr. Milosavljevic who said he did not want to accept responsibility and that the DS did not want to accept responsibility for the destroyed health care that was in the previous period, the period of their authority because it was led by other parties, he probably meant the G17 plus, but it certainly cannot be justified. Responsibilities are always on the biggest partner and DS was the biggest partner in the government and could certainly influence how and how G17 will lead health care. Therefore, the absolute responsibility of DS for destroyed healthcare and cannot be monitored now and no one can stand up and say – no, we do not want to accept responsibility for 10 years of health destruction, it was someone else in our government, and we were the biggest in the government. The Serbian Progressive Party accepts responsibility as the government's biggest partner and will accept no matter which coalition partners are run by the ministry. But if they can't accept the responsibility of destroyed health care at least to be correct now that they've submitted these amendments, and to be serious and to say this is an extraordinary law for people. The only person who has succeeded is the SDS to say we accept a law like this that is excellent and that is one improvement in health care and we don't make amendments. These other opposition parties are trying to degrade something they can't. Well, now, the internship will last not six, but to ask for 12 to last and that's the amendment. Well, the medicine lasted five years and then the internship was 12 months. Now the medicine lasts six years, so the internship is six months. Because that sixth year is exactly the six months of practical teaching to be conducted. It is a crystal clear thing, as it is crystal clear how Professor Djuric explained what it is to equalise the teaching part of a university professor. We endure so many clear things, and now we're going to get such amendments from the opposition that there should be a clinic in Svilinco. Wait, guys, don't do this. And then when we listen to such an amendment, the DS wonders me how to have a 5% foothold in citizens, when such amendments are to be submitted they should have 2%, and that should be maximum compared to the knowledge and demagogue they're spreading to us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40278	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40279	Thank you, I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. The amendment referred to in Article 4 which determines what and how health care professionals and health associates can, when it comes to independent work, traineeship and how long it takes. Our amendment referred to item 4, which says – the traineeship for healthcare professionals and health associates with higher and secondary professional training takes six months. The amendment we have submitted is that the word "six" is replaced by the word "nine". If we work in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure, then it's about whether the argument to be six or nine months better or not is supposed to be a subject, but since I see that there's a broad understanding of what a member of 106 is and what the subject of the agenda is, then I'll make my contribution. As much as it is willing to choose an argument on poor health results, on poor health conditions, on the inaccessibility of health institutions, on a huge number of people in Serbia, it is everyone's right and everyone's willing to choose what is an argument that will act convincingly. What I can share with all who choose the argument that it is DS, whether 12 or 15 years old, I can only challenge that argument that it will not improve the state of health, or the accessibility of health institutions, people living in Serbia, but every MP has the right to choose an argument. The problem with this argument – someone else is guilty, it's not us, it has a limited duration and it happens in every society and in every election, limited six months to a year after the new government is formed. Far from that, it only serves to cover the lack of results, which is a common shame. What it really opposes in the argument is freedom to choose ad person arguments and to disqualify the applicants in any way, and in the rights and obligations they have under the Constitution and under the Law on the National Assembly. Why are we looking for nine months, because we think that the time to spend on a six-month internship is not enough? Why do we think it's not enough, because we know what it is that during a traineeship, people need everything to master as a practice and to gain experience in order to be trustworthy if and when, after a traineeship, they really work with people. Do not deny anyone the right to believe that when you challenge other people's right to think and say, it is my right to tell you that this will convince no one to have better access to health care now than a year ago, we all have enough information about what and how it has been done during the reforms of the health system to establish health care that we share with everyone. Since there is no will to talk to arguments, but to choose an argument is to disqualify the applicant, it is a choice that always tells everything about one who makes such a choice, to disqualify a person, not what is written or what is said, and there is nothing more that can be done, that is the character to choose such an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40280	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40281	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will leave immediately with this amendment regarding the length of the traineeship. It is perfectly normal and justified that each of us has a vision and I support your position to propose nine months. It's your vision, you've made your arguments. On the other hand, the government has proposed, that is, the applicant of this bill has proposed six months, which is the same legitimate and which can defend itself, as well as this one of yours. Now, what does it matter to me? In my view, the quality of this traineeship is important, how much we will enable these people in that period, or those in charge of it, to learn a lot, that is, to learn enough, to go to work on their own. What's very important? It's very important that we, regardless, can't say that only the previous government is back 15, 20 years and over, we've all systematically and gradually destroyed both education and health care. We've come to a situation where it now belongs to this government to try to solve a lot of things, which have messed up generations ago. All of us, whether we are a position or an opposition, must help them get rid of this job to the satisfaction of all Serbian citizens. Good education will create good health professionals, and good health professionals doctors, medical staff, etc., are necessary for every nation and for this one. Nothing will be happy Serbia's citizens because we will now be convinced who has done more harm to health, whether the minister from this party or one, but that does not justify us, none of us. The minister or those ministers who had had a period to solve many problems, did not solve them, left them to colleagues, and he is now in a position to solve something he did not mess up. I hope that we will all be wise enough to agree that this is one law that we need, which is at this point the way it is and with your proposals, if any amendments are accepted by all MPs, not only whether the position or opposition is, that legislative proposal will be improved and we will have such a model at this point. Will this law remain forever? Well, he won't. Time, life teaches us that everything is variable, so this is going to change too. In medicine, which I think is no longer just an occupation, it's both science and practice and occupation, we see that change is extremely rapid. A lot of things that were valid until yesterday have changed. Science goes forward, medicine goes forward and we will be faced in a year, in two, in five, maybe several times to change this law. That's why I don't think there's any need to attack each other, but I don't think there's any need for this kind of thing to waste a lot of time. You have made the arguments that this should be nine months, the government has proposed that it be six months, and there will be no problem if the government's proposal remains, as it would not be a problem to accept your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40282	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40283	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, of course I suggest that the amendment be rejected. Six months is enough for a smart guy, and for others it's not enough for years, two, three, four, and for some five years, it wouldn't be enough for them to be educated, given the discussions of one of the former regime's colleagues, whom I didn't understand very well. Well, I suggest in the future that I be assigned a translator when that colleague speaks, because it's simply some version of Serbian, but I didn't understand if he even talked about the amendment and what he was saying was completely incomprehensible to me. I appreciate even trying to self-critical the party of the former regime, which they say – you know, we, which is not absolutely true, have left it to a coalition partner. And that's not absolutely true either, since they need to know that people's knowledge and wisdom passed on from knee to knee, that it's not only the one who did something, it's the one who didn't stop it, and he was in a position to prevent it, to punish it, etc. So, the responsibility is greater on whoever didn't prevent it, who noticed it, but nothing did make them illogical in the field of health care of the I.D. It's not true that your parents didn't ask health care if we take an example in Vojvodina where they've decided for 15 years on health care, where the Republic pays for everything, but they're setting up their staff. Don't tell me they're not responsible for nepotism, let's just say, when their leader's wife is in charge of the Emergency Centre without having certain academic knowledge, or not a lecturer, which was a necessary condition. They can't say they're not responsible when their Director of the Clinical Center has the same ramp at the Clinical Center and the same ramp outside his house. Even the same remote control opens the gates. So he doesn't need two. There is a clear view of the intention of corruption, so this attempt of self-critics, that like them, they have not asked themselves anything, I appreciate it, but it should be said that this does not apply to the territory of Vojvodina, where, for example, the purchase of equipment, which certainly the minister knows. For example, a table for pregnant women of six thousand euros has been paid 28 000 euros. Five times the prices are high. So I believe that six months is enough for a smart one to be educated, and for the others, you can put them a year, two, three, and in some discussions, some would not succeed in specializing in order to properly master them in five years. I can't agree that it's only subjective nature's fault. I think there was more to it. What about public procurement in Vojvodina, which were without a plan and a financial plan, which were worth two billion each, for which no one was responsible? So it's an attempt to remove all sins. What about the economic devastation of a country that is mostly guilty of being destroyed, abandoned, that the salaries of health workers are at the level at which they are, because it is an economy, that there is no additional value, etc., what do we now have to do and correct all anomalies? And someone says, "You know what, we're a little bit responsible, but the responsibility was that we left it to someone else, etc." The one who did not prevent it, did not treat it and is as responsible as the doctor who comes sees the patient not being healthy, but won't treat it and says – I will leave it to the nurse. In such situations, a doctor is more responsible than a nurse who has not been qualified for treatment, and she was given the right to care for a patient. So, I think they're responsible, and that's the main and exclusive culprits for the state of health, and they don't have the right to tear up their dirty sheets in Vojvodina, for which they're responsible, to stick it on our noses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40284	Thank you. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40285	Thank you. We may have gone too far in the story of something that already existed in the law, because it was mostly debated here about extending the doctor's training to nine months instead of six months, as the law provided. I am personally opening up the question that it is not an amendment intervention or an amendment to the law, how else do the advocates of this issue bomb us with various legal proposals done earlier? We have now only done these changes for other healthcare professionals and reduced them to six months, since indeed, here I have to show it now, and I don't believe that this will get the camera to zoom in, says that the curriculum and the program implies this practical work, clinical internship and emergency. So, the most urgent thing, the most vital within the entire semester and the period of practice they have in that year, which is the final year of study. What about them, interns, to get back to medicine, because they're talking about medics, stays? There remains that direct encounter with a patient who has been accomplished in general practice, in hospitals with a doctor who's been assigned to them in experience. That's the point. It is the core. Maybe here you could discuss how these doctors are elected, how many institutions we wanted or didn't want to centralize. For example, in Croatia you have a competition to go to an internship in a health institution, a clinical center or a clinical hospital center. You can compete from one part of Croatia to another to get to the internship. That's how you keep records, but it's a different mode of study and it's different where it's done. So they add one great importance to it. We are now solving this through the most serious way in Serbia, by conducting it as a mandatory day-to-day activity by students at the age of six. While earlier they were classic interns within a one-year cycle. They were writers of the history of the disease. People who, depending on their interest and the will of the mentor, could or could not go down to the aseptic hall to see some kind of entry injury, to perform a differential diagnostic triage. Now it's already encased in a mandatory standard of behavior and something he needs to see, so he has equal weight. Not to matter with what is in the second part, which is mainly carried out in the homes of health, therefore, in general practice with what will be done and, of course, in the institutions of primary health care of other species, or those dealing with hygiene, epidemiology, to learn the regime of vaccination, to learn the regime of control, etc. So, enough, and on the third hand, finally, what's done is in agreement with the chambers. The chamber at point 5 in their other responsibilities just defines this problem. The health ministry only listened to the chamber's proposal, which you could at a time when you had a chamber under absolute authority and yourself suggest that it would be from the previous six months for the medics and 12 for the others or return to nine for everyone or reduce to others or whatever. Now that we're on the threshold, I can't even see politically that it's useful for someone with six months to get back to nine months of internship. And where would you spend it? Where would we get those three more months in the middle of what he's going through? Which part, which segment? Where would he spend it? He can no longer follow the framework of the internship, as the rules of the chamber are prescribed and previously sublawed acts where everything must be implemented in order to complete the internship. It's just, I can't see, except for one single story that should be somehow opposed to the proposed part of the law right now. Maybe that was a bigger problem for us before -- how good is it to get? Now, that part is loaded into general practice, homes of health, where along with the doctor, he's a dispensary supervisor, who's a professor, a professor who looks at him, who thinks he's still being evaluated. Now, no, he's now a colleague from practice who shows him and how it's written, how the analysis is interpreted, how the laboratory's manual is written, and the greatest pain for them, how to enter a single system of registered computer writing recipes, diagnosis, etc. They're recovering here. Of course, always and mostly, if I didn't always say it, but most often it depends on the candidate himself how seriously he will take what is provided and how much quality from it theoretically, I'd say, just solidly subdued, because of the education system, which requires quick and instant learning and the question of the retention of knowledge, but the system offers, as it is, we have such and such respect for him and I don't love him. We give maximum. As far as they're concerned, we don't know, but this part of their indirect involvement in doctoral life is really good, and I don't see that anything here needs to be changed. I think we've been over-discussing. I just wanted to give you an explanation from the medical school program that I've shown and the doctor's office's position. The obligation of the medical chamber is to make such decisions and such proposals, which both the second and the third chambers have made. I don't know who else to ask about and who to consult with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40286	Thank you, Dr. Pocurica. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40287	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I will try to be really brief. This amendment should certainly be rejected, out of the clear reasons of the colleagues who spoke in favour of it. I don't think health problems should, in the way one of the opposition MPs tried, be politicized. I'm going to ask yours, Chairman, that in the further debate, don't let us go wide because really health issues aren't since yesterday. The government, the ministry and the minister should give real recognition for dealing with this problem and for a positive trend to be continued. It's a good view of fellow Milisavljevic that we all have to help this story, not to politicize it any further. I think that's how it's gonna be in the next period. Of course, this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40288	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40289	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, this debate that has been about this amendment has shown our mutual interest, in fact, and for this amendment itself, that is, to resolve this issue, but also in general and for this whole bill that is before us. I would just briefly get involved, encouraged by previous debaters, to note that we have all witnessed as citizens for a long time the collapse of health relations and positions in the field of health, all of which had great consequences and impact on the exercise of the rights of the patient and the position of us who are the users of all these health institutions. But I just have to say that someone stopping this bad relationship was somehow at a time when we have to tell the truth for the sake of it, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic became minister. To remind all MPs that we here in the Assembly voted in favour of the draft laws that the ministry had brought and adopted at the time. First of all, I will mention the Health Protection Act, the Social Insurance Act, which established some new relations that were in any case pro-European, but also established some relations between primary, secondary and territorial institutions. I remember the debate that was very much represented here at the time, about the importance that comes back to health homes, as well as institutions that are most directly facing citizens. Their reputation and the importance of these institutions have been restored, especially in the development of prevention, and in advance, as they say, of these preventive proposals, which I am sure you will continue to work on. The law at that time was passed on the rights of patients, who simply opened up some new positions, as well as the new first time passed the Law on the Rights of patients with mental disorders. I would stress here that all that has been done during this period and your ministry has now continued is, in fact, putting together and the overall records in the field of health, sorting out all these, as they say, documentation in general, which creates a healthy basis for further healing in the health care system itself, in strengthening their position and their roles, distribution of their functions. What is most important, what we are discussing today, is a proper very careful and respectful attitude towards young doctors who are due tomorrow to continue your activities and your work, which will ensure that the health system is, as I said in my previous debate, a system in which we, as citizens, will have great confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40290	Thank you. The word is Dr. Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40291	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I am against an amendment that provides for a medical or traineeship to last nine months instead of six, for several reasons. I am sorry that Comic left the session, but she accuses us, whether as the ruling majority or government as a representative of the ruling majority, there is no will to discuss the arguments on the subject. I'd like to talk to a few arguments on the subject. Why do I think that? Since the start of a medical school study, every day a medical student is related to the exercises that after teaching are practically throughout the day – from chemistry and famous anatomy, nausea and fainting on exercises with first contact with corpses, to the famous capture of frogs by exercise in physiology, to those first clinical exercises when the first injections or first aggressive methods also skimmming students, so every day studying at the medical school are abundant in exercises. The essence of just studying medical school is exercises, exercises, in principle with teachers, assistants, professors, who from the start of the clinic tie each student to a sick room, to a sick bed and to a patient on whom, along with their teachers, they practice daily and throughout the day. So it's really a lot of arguments on the subject that medical studies are primarily about exercises, and they really have to practice because they train for a job that is done on human beings, on living children, on what is most sensitive, and probably the most complex of all jobs that can be done in human kind. That's why I think extending the traineeship of three months to what's called six-year-old study and exercise really doesn't mean much, especially to students who have taken their studies seriously, as every serious medical student should do. I hope I've given my colleague in absentia enough arguments. Anyway, you can talk about exercise and practical classes at medical school for hours, not just as long as I've been talking for the last few minutes. The arguments are, of course, that during the former regime, which it belonged to, in the hospitals in Serbia, as well as in Chačka, a decimated fit during that famous ban on specialization and banning volunteer specializations, so I will repeat what I said at a plenary hearing the day before yesterday, that, for example, the hospital the size of my hospital in Chačka, which has 180 employees of doctors, in three or four years it loses some 30 or 40 doctors due to retirement, and in these staff plans in the last ten years, it is not possible to train specialists of doctors who will inherit their jobs. So much for arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40292	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Loncar, distinguished guests from the ministry and respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, I suggest you include this device for mathematical operations and that it measures seven minutes for this speech, so five minutes after the amendments that I am entitled to in each amendment debate and two minutes for the amendment, seven in total, because I haven't used five minutes before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40294	Here, I'll turn myself on instead of the machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40295	So seven minutes. Dear gentlemen, I am not a doctor, and before the debate on the principle of this bill, gentlemen, as is the order, I have scheduled consultations with members and members of the New Party Health Council, where a large number of doctors are working, gentlemen. I have consulted, we have found some logic based on which we have submitted amendments to this bill and one of these amendments is an amendment to Article 4. I therefore ask the MPs that if they happen to report for the replica, to comment on our amendments, to respect our efforts and not to use the argument of the quasi experts, the ignorance of matter, because we have consulted the right people. We have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and here's what we propose, gentlemen. Our proposal is that the traineeship for health associates with high professional training lasts nine months. This is how we imagined, talked, concluded, a health care professional with a six-month level of expertise should be interned. The one that we're talking about, a health associate with a high level of expertise for nine months, and those people with a higher school have an internship of 12 months, and we have this one-degree approach that involves six, nine and 12 months. We've offered an additional argument here. We have announced that it is appropriate for healthcare associates with high professional training to last nine months, as this, Minister Lončar, is a sufficient period of time to achieve quality in work. I think our logic is clear, gentlemen. Then I read this morning why our amendment to Article 4 was not accepted. Minister Lončar answered us this way – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that a health associate with high professional training who does not have a completed medical profession and who performs certain health care services in a medical institution, or private practice, which is why training is necessary during the traineeship takes longer than prescribed for healthcare professionals with high professional training. Dear gentlemen, it will take longer and if our proposal is accepted, because a health care professional with a six-month internship, the one we've intervened on, a health associate with a high-level professional capacity of nine months, and Minister Loncar, is three months' longer traineeship. Therefore, our argument fits the basic argument of what Minister Loncar said. I now, the right to tell you, I think that the citizens, and I believe the MPs, will not be able to understand how now we do not respect logic and vote for our amendment, when our argument coincides with what is Mr. Lonchar's argument, and we offer an additional argument. That's one thing, gentlemen. The second thing that I think is very important for this moment here concerns exactly what is at the heart of this Health Protection Act. We asked Mr. Loncar here, here, I see that Mr. Giric, Mrs. Mrdakovic, these are all doctors, who are following here now, I hope they will discuss, we asked Mr. Loncar - Mr. Loncar, on what grounds did you claim to be less afraid of the inability to treat citizens in our republic, when we here claimed that this fear was enormous, respected gentlemen? Then Mr. Lonchar answered us, so, behold, you will finance the research, and then he will show you this. Dear gentlemen, so Mr. Lonchar, how so? Well, I guess if you have an attitude about something, you've probably built that attitude based on some argument, based on research that's done, and not like this, to come in and say, it's less fear, and you're funding research, so show me that it's smaller. Well, how's Mr. Lonchart? Or, Mr. Lonchar, when you say – our doctors go to Germany, they go to Norway, etc. Then you say, "Well, these are some transition processes, and doctors are in transit." But I do notice, gentlemen, that we are the first point, leaving here. And who's coming, Minister Lonchart? When these doctors go to Germany, when German doctors go to Norway who will come to us, are we here to remain vacant for all these places? You didn't say where they came from, for example. to fill these places, because in Germany they've secured themselves, like you said. In Norway, they took care of German doctors? And we, how are we going to replace such a drain of doctors, here, this, Mrs. Rakonjac, for example. To hear the answer to that question? One more thing. We are here, Minister Loncar, every time you come, even now that you have come and we have discussed in principle, and now for our amendment to article 4, we have announced to you - let's focus on the fundamental reform of the health sector. In this year and eight months we keep repeating two words – the Beverly model, to enter into the health care system with us. He, Minister Loncar, implies that all citizens of our Republic, regardless of whether they are employed or unemployed, whether they are paid contributions or not, contributes, that each of them is secure for free primary health care, and that we here commit to fund that part of that health care from the budget. Mr. Lonchar, I, for example, I think it's some kind of civilization thing. If we did, then we could argue that we are really working by reducing the fear of our citizens from the inability to treat. Until we do, we can't claim it, I mean, Mr. Lonchart and the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40296	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40297	First, it's good that you asked this question – where we're going to have a doctor, but you should have informed yourself that we have two and a half thousand doctors on the bureau and 9,000 nurses and medical technicians. So we don't have that problem. We have that problem that was made before and that we talked about, that there wasn't a specialization, that they weren't giving up, that people weren't hired and that it had to be a mandatory internship. That's why we're in this situation. We've got enough doctors. That's why we don't worry. You must also know why doctors from Germany, Slovenia, Croatia, go anywhere. Of course, they go where better conditions are. That's normal. But why haven't you done all this before? Well, we wouldn't get into this situation. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How I? Well, no, I do. Okay, never mind, it's not you. So we don't have that problem from where we're going to have doctors. That's one thing. As far as research is concerned, I think research is saying enough, only if something has changed in the last few days. That is why I have told you, if there is anything that we do not know, then you should finance it before time, that it may be seen. Otherwise, it's familiar to everyone. It's not about talking about research or what they say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40298	Thank you. The list's full again. The first word has a folk MP, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40299	President-in-Office, respected ministers, his associates, distinguished fellow MPs, above all, from a speaker who had previously exhibited, for the first time, I have heard of a steppe or a step-by-step approach to solving the problem. I think that term is more appropriate in construction, engineering, not in health and medicine. I think that today, on the basis of this bill and on the basis of all this we've heard, things are really being solved in a completely different way, that this traineeship that we're talking about in the amendment is being solved on the basis of a careful analysis of the study programme of people who are not health workers but health associates, as the careful analysis of the health care programme has given us a solution that has been proposed, which is to be an internship of six months, and to have health associates be 12 months, not by any step-by-step or step-by-step rules or analyses. So, it's not the point that it's six, nine, twelve, as some would say, but the point is to make sense, that health workers already have part of the internships in the study programme, that is, part of the study programme they're doing, if it's broken down with a traineeship, and it's lower by months and health associates just don't have that part on the final year of the primary judges. That's why the trainee's internship is 12 months long. I think it's all clear here, but I also believe that this law and this amendment are, in this way, additionally and politicised and an unprofessional story is introduced absolutely into this topic, which I don't think is in the manual. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. As a replica, I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40300	Of course, I listened very carefully, looking for these shades for you to do. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40301	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I hope to give an answer to my distinguished colleague why the traineeship for health associates should be as much as prescribed. First of all, as you know, I come from an institution that belongs to clean prevention, and this is the Institute of Public Health, and we have much more, to say, associates than even health employees, who are doing their job correctly in laboratories that are necessary, means doing some analysis. Of course, I think 12 months is an adequate period, because they need to get acquainted with the work of a health care institution and get some knowledge about health care. We have a lot of chemists, so we have biologists who can also be chemistry teachers and biology teachers, but if they opt for work in a health care facility, then they have to follow the protocol that's supposed to work in a health institution based on experience, based on plans and programs, so they can progress later on to perfect themselves and to enroll specializations that will be closely related to the work they're supposed to do. As for doctors and six months' reduction of internships, let's not forget that one year of study is extended to doctors and dentists, therefore, they have six years of so-called. an emergency practice that fully covers one part of the traineeship so far. As far as healthcare professionals with higher professional training are concerned, I think their traineeship is adequately determined and I hope that my distinguished colleague will accept this explanation for the general satisfaction. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40302	That's cute. The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40303	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow People's MPs, I am pleased that a fellow speaker of this amendment is eager to participate actively in the reforms carried out by this government and our prime minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, but obviously not sufficiently educated. Namely, your doctors from your party probably don't know the health care system enough or they don't live in this country. Namely, as a psychiatric doctor, my work is closely linked to associates, so there are psychologists, sociologists, and it is very important that they, during the traineeship that lasts 12 months, be able to work as required by this department. So, with all due respect to you, I don't see your fellow promoter in the O.R., but, with all due respect, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, because it takes an internship of 12 months. As far as your education is concerned, feel free to contact the SNS Parliament Club, which numbers many doctors, specialists of almost all specialities, and we will be happy to help you, meaning and educate you. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40304	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40305	Respected presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected counterpart Pavicevic at the beginning of this debate introduced logic in considering the length of the traineeship, and then it was a logic of six, nine, twelve. Maybe that makes sense if we follow a mathematical sequence, but if we follow a sequence called science, study, schooling, then it doesn't really make sense. Here's why. A moment ago, you suggested from your group that the traineeships for doctors, so those who spend the longest time in the school who have, or at the university, who in their studies have a huge fund of training, be extended from six months to nine. Just before, I was hoping to argue why this is not good, that then for technicians and nurses who also spend a huge part of their schooling, the traineeship extends to 12, and that medical associates, or healthcare workers, are somewhere in the middle of nine months. Why isn't that logical? Because the associates in their school spent no days in any medical institution, so there is no logic other than this mathematical 6,9,12, but as far as the profession is concerned, I really don't think it makes any sense that people who are co-workers in medical institutions have been educated in other schools, without having a day of clinical experience or hospital experience or working in the troupe, as they would say in the military, are not justified to have a shorter traineeship than those who have been educated and trained with exercises and practical knowledge every day within their education and traineeship skills. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40306	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40307	Thank you, President. On the grounds of the proposed amendment, I agree with my colleagues, the SNS MPs that without any intention of insulting the amendment's proposings, I do have the custom of being a little figuratively express myself, but this is all we're talking about refusing amendments, we're talking experienced because we've been through this internship, because many of my colleagues from SNS are also teachers, so they're also educating their students and specialists and doctors at the mandatory internship, so for that reason and in such a way we're performing with an argument, which is that we really need to reject this proposed amendment and there's no anger. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure, I must. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40308	You don't have to, you don't have to do anything. There's only one thing in life that's got to be, nothing left, as far as I know the laws of nature. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I do not have to plead, but it is necessary to intervene. Here you go, let's hear it, and we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40309	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Loncar and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I think, and not once and more, a member of 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, which defines the right of one MP to a replica. Mrs Gojkovic, I am one of the 250 MPs, explaining my amendment for seven minutes. After me, according to my amendment, Mr Lonačr, Laketić, Radojevic, Mrs Rakonjac, Mrs Barisic and Mrs Mrdakovic spoke. Six. All about my amendment, all about the argument I used, one part I concluded, and I believe you have misread the parts of the argument that I used here. Mrs. Gojkovic, I think it's obvious here to everyone that in this situation I have finally earned the right to replication. If this is not an obvious thing, then I think, Mrs. Gojkovic, we are entering a sphere of heavy impact on our parliamentaryism, which we cannot do, I think. We all have to stand up to each other here. What's the problem now? That I get the right to a two-minute replica after the speech of six people who are members of the SNS. Wouldn't it be appropriate for me to get that right to replica under these circumstances? Here, if you convince me it's not appropriate, I'll give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40310	Dear MP, honourable ministers, respected members of the government, honourable MPs and MPs, member 104 is not injured, you have not even quoted him correctly. So, insulting expressions to the MP, MPs, doctors of medical science, as I understand it, and by profession, doctors spoke with respect of you as an MP, they didn't even mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40311	You misread my performance, it says...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40312	They didn't give you a name or a last name, and they didn't misread your presentation, but they're in the context of their parliamentary time that's much bigger than yours, and you don't have an MP's group. So, logically, the SNS parliamentary group has much, much more... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: David v Goliath, Mrs Gojkovic. I forgot to turn you off so you wouldn't sufflage me with what to do. ... much, much more time than you to express your position regarding the members of the law, the text of the bill, Article 175, etc. and your amendment, and you threaten and strike against parliamentaryism and do not allow MPs to state their position, but I cannot punish you, but I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Shall we vote? (No) Thank you, you have an understanding. It's a pretty good try. Now you will hear more opinions about your amendment and the bill. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Only 30 seconds and arriving... Please go. I'll handle the situation. Just get out, please. You're giving up the discussion. Thank you. Let's move on. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. We promised we wouldn't discuss it because a colleague left. He doesn't want a word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No, no, I am here. I'm sorry, we're through. They didn't want to talk anymore, because you went out, so they respected you. The 5th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word on that amendment? (No) I thank you. The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word, as a proposing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of Loncar and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I think our amendment is clear and our next member of this bill, because we believe, Minister Loncar, that these things, which you have defined in one position in Article 5, should be dealt with by a competent chamber. If this is a content that shouldn't concern the medical chamber, then I think it's best to remove that medical chamber. Then what will she do, Minister Lonchart? So our amendment is clear. I am very interested in hearing an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, with two additional arguments. For example, gentlemen from the Progressive Party say -- it's a steppe term used, Mr. Radojevic says, in mathematics, Mr. Laketic says, in construction. Dear gentlemen, the Serbian language dictionary in the Novi Sad Mother of Serbia, where the president of the National Assembly comes from, figuratively says – a steppe that is done gradually with the crossings, not in the jumps. So we say six, nine, twelve. It means gradually with transitions, not six, twelve, six. What is it, gentlemen? Plus. What did we tell you, dear gentlemen? Not just a steppe, but we said that nine months is enough time to achieve quality in work. You gentlemen have failed to convince anyone here to have a better argument that 12 months is really necessary. Explain now what's going on in those three months, so it's necessary to have that traineeship jump like this, and not nicely, as we suggested? Minister Loncar, for example, says – what research? Wait, Mr. Lonchar, so you need to tell us your views based on research, and not me, so that's it. I hope you will still vote in favour of these amendments, gentlemen, because they contribute to the quality and content of this law, to focus on adopting the best laws, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40314	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40315	I thank the president. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know if I should start with advertising the Rules of Procedure, talk about an amendment that has already passed or talk about this amendment which the promoter has not said a letter, but not a letter, but this is what counterpart Barisic said. So, both amendments need to be rejected, and of course there are enough doctors for SNS. I invite you, in future, as the promoters of any amendment, to what rights you have, when it comes to health care at all, to first come to the Health Committee where all amendments are really exhaustingly discussed, where you have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment so as not to expose yourself to such risks in plural and in discussion in particular, and then to organise education where you can really get acquainted with all segments of health care, organizations, etc. So, both this and the previous amendment, since we haven't had a chance to talk about the amendment that was before this, Mr Pavicevic has come out of the hall, I don't know whether to avoid any subsequent discussions, should be rejected, this one from a clear explanation of several SNS MPs. Of course, look at the statutes of the Medical Chamber, the Ministry has its powers, its powers, so you will understand why this amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40316	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40317	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about this amendment to Mr Pavicevic and the medical chambers, I forgot to mention two days ago one anomaly I noticed about that licensing. Now he's playing words and everything. What I want to draw attention to is that the Medical Chamber, and the Ministry of Health, should make sure that clinical centres, that clinics make plans for the education of doctors. Some of the colleagues who proposed the amendments said that young doctors had been put on the other side. I'll tell you, not only young doctors, but also doctors who are on the inside that find it difficult to reach opportunities, financial opportunities, especially if the small municipality, if it has a larger number of villages, then it has to work on the territory of the village, every day changes the village infirmary, so that it achieves that bonus, to collect those 24 credit points in a year, and everything depending on the profession. My recommendation is to make a plan in hospitals, to get the directors to plan their colleagues' education, to make it clear who's going and where they're going. It's something that traps, which I will publicly say as long as I have immunity. So, I suspect some doctors aren't getting out of the plane and they have these licenses, and some doctors can't get the funds to sponsor themselves, to come to some education. That's why pharmaceuticals can't go into direct one-on-one relationship with a doctor and make a deal with a doctor, that's why. sponsorship, without the director of the clinic knowing, so you have some doctors who don't get out of the plane, and that the Medical Chamber issue credit points. It's a thing that, in my opinion, is very speculative, which happened and that the state has to control more and set up this one sponsorship work of pharmaceutical houses. It has to go through the director of the facility. So, the director of the facility knows who's funding which doctor, that he knows where that doctor went, whether he went to a clinical center education program or a particular hospital, or just because he prescribed certain pharmaceuticals, i.e. favored a certain pharmaceutical house, which I consider to be a crime. I said, as an MP who still has immunity, this is the thing that the regulated European countries have arranged, where pharmaceutical houses can sponsor doctors, but the directors of health care institutions need to know, make a plan and say who, when and where we educate, who we educate and who we pay for, to make it clear on the website of the clinical center, on the website of the health institution for 2016 – Prof. Dr. Slavica Đukić will go to the conference of psychiatrists, professor. Milisavljevic will attend the Otorinolaringologist congress. So to know clearly who's going and who's paying for it, and then to even up the number of credit points. President of Parliament, I wanted to bring in, about licensing, about my discussion about what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40318	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40319	This is a thing I've been appealing to all the pharmaceutical houses for over a year, actually, for over a year, and I want to say this. It's our reality, that we have doctors who don't get to unpack, and they're already going on the next trip and we have those who can't make it. It's extremely not transparent, it's highly unfair. That's right, the directors go around. What I mean at this point, pharmaceutical houses, their representatives can't at work, what I insisted on and at the Clinical Center, at work, they can't be with doctors in their rooms. It's working time, that's when they have to help patients and do their job. What will they do with pharmaceutical houses after work hours, we can't influence it, but at work they can't be. The pharmaceutical houses can apply to the director of the facility and have the director organise them, but not individually with doctors, but to give them the topic they want to do the presentation or anything, and to allow them as many doctors as possible, transparently in the room that fits, where they can hold a presentation for everyone, to be there, not to go from one day to another doctor and to agree where they will, what they will and how they will do. And what he insists, every pharmaceutical house, we'll insist, and the hospital, that there's a website to tell where he went, who went and who paid. Because that money can be much better invested. For that money they went, I'm not saying, there's certainly 1% of those trips that have a purpose, but a large number is touristic. For that money, we could have turned all medical facilities three times by now. Remember that one serious trip costs thousands of euros each.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40320	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40321	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I believe that this amendment, the two gentlemen who have submitted it, should be rejected because I believe it makes no sense at all, first. Secondly, if accepted, it cannot improve the quality of healthcare professionals and health services in advance. Let me tell you, as a man who works at the university and who is a member of the Senate of one university, I find it very clear that I have a very close problem that the whole law wants to solve. I, on behalf of most educators, professor of the university, really thank you. You and your government, because before you, no one was able to resolve the status of a teacher, or co-worker of a medical profession college. From clinical cases in a medical institution, as a college base, he is 60 years old and they are not right colleagues from opposition benches when criticising this bill, I call on them to participate, to contribute to the quality, to solve a part of the problem in health care. It is not true that there are health affairs, not one single affair, since you, Mr. Secretary Loncar Minister, have no single affair. It's also not true that there was no affair before. These are terrible things happened during the party of the former regime, some of the biggest affairs in Serbian health since it existed today. Let me say, Mr. Minister, when you were Minister, there was an affair in the trade of waiting lists for the cancer patients to be irradiated. Secondly, Mr. Minister, it wasn't for your term of office that there was a crime scene between the ambulance and the undertaker, it was the party of the former regime. It wasn't for your mandate, Mr. Minister, that there was an affair of the death of a patient in dialysis, it was for the parties of the former regime, and it was in the King. It wasn't for your regime that the clinical center reconstruction affair took place, it was the former regime. And finally, importing swine flu vaccines didn't happen for your term of office, but parties to the former regime, with that, finally, to say, that one affair around these vaccines happened during the vaccination of chickens. The former prime minister and former minister in the village of Pukovac vaccined chickens for a shot of yogurt and water. Of course, he introduced himself as a doctor, took the money and left. We give you support, we're glad on behalf of the citizens, the citizens recognize it, whoever came to the hospitals, whoever came to the health homes recognized that the bar smells clean now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40322	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40323	Thank you. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, indeed when I listen to fellow MPs, as well as doctors from opposition parties, I wonder if we work in the same state. This amendment really cannot be accepted, because I do not agree with it, especially as a doctor who works in a general hospital in a psychiatric ward, and I am also doing the work of a national MP in the National Assembly, as well as the most beautiful role of a mother. All these jobs, I'm completely committed, and I got here last year to collect 24 points. I really don't think it's hard to get points together, and especially now that it's a concession, and the number of points is down to 20, plus the points being passed, I don't think we should accept this amendment, because indeed, the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health has done everything possible to implement the reforms without this law being the right thing to do. My colleague, with all due respect and this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40324	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. He's not here to propose, thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The promoter's not here. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word is Dr. Violet Lutovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40325	Thank you, President. I will only comment briefly on the amendment to Article 7(2) where a small difference is made in relation to the amendment promoter. The only difference is whether the ally "i" or "or" will stand. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, it is clear why it should actually be the ally of "or". That's what separates us from two important things, or two different things. On the one hand, there is a removal of the ambiguity of who is applying for a licence and who is not. A healthcare professional who has collected enough points for continued medical education does not need to submit applications for a licence exam. Who's applying for a license exam? A health care professional who doesn't have enough points is obliged to apply for 60 days from the day before his license expires. This is clear why there is an ally "or", not "i". That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-20-0.u40326	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break to 13.00 hours. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to sit down a little faster and put their cards in, to see the real situation in the O.R. Please, just a little faster. We have a lot of work ahead of us, a big vote, hurry up. There are also MPs who have certain obligations this afternoon. We have one proposal to put on the agenda a new point by emergency procedure during the session, according to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting that motion to the vote. I'm sorry, first quorum, I'm missing my synopsis. I'm asking people who are preparing a synopsis, I get the wrong synopsis every week. I beg you to do your job, each one of your own. So let's determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. Since I don't have a synopsis, I'm going to improvise well, because I know the Rules of Procedure. 145 MPs are present. Please join the vote on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board, under Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – no one, with abstention – voted 12 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that it is included in the agenda of this agenda. We continue to work and move on to a unique search of new points – a proposal for a decision on the election of MEPS MEETING OF THE GOVERNER OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SREBIA Please, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit applications for a word with the order of Members of the People's Parliament. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. It's about human questions. Does anyone want a word? (No) Is the president of the parliamentary groups a word, since I have no authority? (No) I don't have any records. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Since we have carried out a unique search, in the day of the vote, we will decide on the motion for a decision. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, November 20th, 2015, starting at 13:15 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum, whether we have most of the total number of MPs. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that 157 MPs are present in the hall and that we have most of the need for further work, i.e. voting. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON PROGRAMME I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Law of Objects, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, three of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the amendment law, in the same text, four MPs from the Democratic Party group and joint MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, four MPs of the Democratic Party group, joint MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and jointly Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. When they write names, then it doesn't take a number of MPs, it's the same for those who prepare the synopsis. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Suzanne Spasojevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no, 147 of the 164 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 141 of the total attendance of 164 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the "Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 4th amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the "Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group, "Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Suzana Spasojevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 143 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Democratic Party group and joint MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Marjana Maras. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 140 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 156 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Bicanin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Branko Djurovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Djordje Cabarkapa. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 131 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs of the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the SPS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 29th amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 33, Jovana Jovanovic was submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dejan Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 33 be added after article 33. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the DS parliamentary group and joint MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the amendment's 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the LSV group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th amendment were submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, no one, with abstentions, voted 131 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Dragojevic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 46a be added after article 46a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together have submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that a new member of 46a be added after article 46a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment to Article 38. The proposal for a law arises in the situation referred to in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of that amendment, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendment adopted with the text of the draft law. I therefore set a five-minute break, and ask that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. I'll see you in five minutes.
