ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda and the adoption of the minutes exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28248	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask an explanation, to be precise, I ask the Presidents of the Assembly and the Secretariat - will they finally stand in defense of the dignity of the National Assembly and of the MPs and respond to the questions sent by the institutions and individuals, which are not only offensive to the National Assembly and insult the intelligence of the MPs, but also insult the intelligence of all the citizens that the MPs here represent? I received a response from Mark Djuric, director of the government office for Kosovo and Metohija, to the parliamentary question I asked about the attack on two Bosniak students studying from Novi Pazar in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. Marko Djuric writes to me in his reply about everything, except what I asked him as a parliamentary question, and I asked simple things: who were the attackers who attacked two Bosniak students in the middle of the day in the middle of the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and who beat them up, who were the motives of this attack, were any of the attackers identified, detained, etc.? I also asked if the state, or the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, could provide security for Bosniak students studying in northern Kosovo Mitrovica? I appeal to the president and to the congregation services not to forward such answers to the MPs in the future, but to return them to the institutions and individuals who sign them, with a warning that they are insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and the MPs. For the same reason, I reacted last week, when police minister Stefanovic, instead of answering, sent a falsified police report on the incursion of the official premises, armed ambush and attempted murder of Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, who was also the current minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In the report, Minister Stefanovic, not only hid and protected armed burglars and murderers, but also hid all their initials, and hid even that there were shootings in our official premises, from multiple pieces of firearms and multiple shots. At that time, our member Adnan Ganic, who was close to Dr Ugljanin, was shot. Instead, the minister and the police are trying to get this guilty report to the victims of an armed ambush in our premises. So it can't be done in the rule of law. We've been waiting six years for burglars and murderers to be caught. Such abuses by the top state authorities to conceal serious crimes committed against Bosniaks are extremely worrying and pose an objective threat and danger to the lives of SD Sandzak leadership, but also to continue the functioning and political organisation of the Bosniak people in Serbia. When I talk about the abuses of state authorities, I will take this opportunity and ask Minister Verbic for an explanation - why and on what grounds has he allowed the position of Director of the High School in Novi Pazar to be used to buy the committee of our party, which is the function given in exchange for the transition to the ruling majority? With this, Minister Verbic, and the people with whom he did so, directly influenced the violent change in the electoral will of the citizens of Novi Pazar, caused material damage to our party and, worst of all, sent an immoral message to the students, that even the director of an elite high school could be caught by theft and fraud. On this occasion, given that I do not have much time, I will not talk about a number of abuses and illegalities in the election of school committees in Novi Pazar, but ultimately I expect the president of the Assembly, but also Minister Stefanovic and Verbic, as well as Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Djuric, in their answers respect the dignity of the National Assembly and respect the dignity of the MPs who ask questions on behalf of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28249	I thank you, Mr. Imamovic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the Association of Banking Clients of Efficiency, who are currently monitoring part of today's session at the Grand Hall gallery. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28250	Thank you, Chairman. After seventy years, Serbia finally welcomed the rehabilitation of one of the most decorated Serbs, Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic. But the reactions to this rehabilitation aren't just internal, we're getting a series of reactions from the region. My questions will be asked by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, as regards the announced foreign talks with Croatian officials on the rehabilitation of Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic. Before I ask the question, I will say that Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic is one of the most decorated Serbs, the greatest Serbian heroes of the Balkan, First and Second World War, the first anti-fascist in Europe, that the SPO thinks that all innocents should be rehabilitated, to correct all historical injustices and to achieve national reconciliation. I think we need to send a strong message that heirs and partisans and dignitaries should jointly build Serbia's European future, but also to correct and large historical injustices that our predecessors have done and for which they are not guilty of these generations. In this sense, the SPO is absolutely ready, as the leader of right-wing European Serbia, to make a full contribution to national reconciliation, but also to protect the national interests and dignity of the Republic of Serbia. I think some of the messages we've received from both political party leaders and political members, even members of our government, are not good. For what? Because many parties that claim to be pro-European, to advocate respect for universal human rights behave in this case the opposite. So I think it's fairer to start a communist party, to say that if they get support from citizens in the elections, they'll establish a concentration camp, political police, that they'll stalk, listen, arrest on a political basis, that they'll abolish the multi-party system, that they'll execute individual mass executions, that they'll ban the freedom of the press, that they'll trample human rights. What Croatia did, i.e. former President Stjepan Mesic, is that 10 years ago it signed a decision to which 10,000 Ustashas received pensions, even if members of the Ustasha family, who were indisputably fascist par-exeliants and Hitler's most loyal followers, their descendants, when they inherited their pensions, reduce their pensions by only 15% compared to partisan pensions that shrink by 30%. The opinion of the SPO is that in a conversation with Croatians, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic should ask if the Croats are concerned that Draža Mihajlovic, as an anti-fascist, fought against the Ustashas they rehabilitate, who are undeniably fascists. Then, is it possible that Stipe Mesic signed a decision 10 years ago whose Ustasha slaughterers are receiving pensions because they slaughtered Serbs at the same time, why do they mind rehabilitating the first anti-fascist in Europe? Then, do the Croats know that Draža Mihajlovic, as a colonel, refused to acknowledge the capitulation, that he had organised the first resistance movement in Europe, that his government was in London, that his allies were English, Americans, Russians, all antifascists themselves, that the highest Serbian medals were won for military honor and courage, that he also received the highest medals from US President Harry Truman, from French President Charles de Gaulle, that Serbia should be proud of having two undeniable anti-fascist movements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28251	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28252	On behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to ask a question about the problem of buying milk in Serbia. I would like to refer the question to Minister of Agriculture Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. The agriculture minister announced in early April the stabilisation of the dairy market in Serbia and expects the stabilisation of the European market, when it comes to food products, will soon occur, particularly milk and milk products. According to her, the ministry is doing everything it can along with other ministries to come to a solution. The government of the Republic of Serbia, at the initiative of the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture, has decided to buy surplus milk by processing powdered milk. The government of the Republic of Serbia approved the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves for the purchase of processed milk powdered domestically totalling 500 million dinars. Of course, this is commendable. The decision was also welcomed by various associations of milk producers. Unfortunately, however, the effects of this decision, producers on the ground do not notice at all because, unfortunately, the situation is worse and worse, primarily in Vojvodina, at least in North-Brac, and North-Banat County. What interests me first, the stock reserve, as far as it came with the purchase of milk powder, of which the manufacturer's milk powder was bought and, of course, I'm interested in what amount? It is clear to all of us that the dairy sector faces major challenges because of the disturbed economic relations between the EU and Russia and the placement of surplus milk and milk products from Europe in the CEFTA region, which is the same in Serbia. We know well that under the new circumstances, domestic milkers are under pressure from low EU prices of products in the region. Serbia is in an extremely difficult position, as the only country in the accession process that has liberalised the market with the EU, without before improving the competitiveness of industry and primary producers, using various EU funds and other forms of financial support. Unfortunately, the purchase price of milk continues to fall and what is worse, that the cancellation of the contract with dairy farmers still exists on the ground, moreover, radicalises. In early May, most dairy farmers reduced the price of milk by one to three dinars, which has further worsened the poor situation of farmers, who have been facing constant ransom cancellations since the beginning of the year. The peasants are already leaving milk production because it's not worth growing and raising cows. This is a huge blow to our manufacturer, and primarily to the small ones who live only on this production. I would like to point out that we, SVM MPs, do not want to use this problem for the sake of daily policy, as some do, but really want to come to a solution as soon as possible. Imlek cancelled the ransom in all of Potis, as well as in various places in the municipality of Mali Ijoš, Subotica and Backo Topola, where I come from. Milk producers are unhappy because they can't live on their work, but for a while now they can't even expect income because Imlek doesn't buy milk from them at all. Those who milk cows don't know what to do with milk, and Imlek simply cancels the ransom. By reason of Imlek, they are not obliged to justify their actions and make the producers happy not to suspend the ransom for an even longer time. Imlek points out they're not happy with quality. They have problems with the increased number of stomach cells in the milk. However, the ransom spot for Šupljak near Subotica, which uses the machine for removing stomach cells, is also closed. So, the difference isn't always in the quality of milk, but I say once again, in Imlek they say they don't have to give an explanation for closing up the ransom spots. Of course, there are cases that the quality of raw milk is not always at the necessary level, but on the other hand, farmers have no insight into the analysis carried out in laboratories for dairy purposes. What I'm interested in is - what can the Ministry of Agriculture do about this right now, or what can we do together to stabilize the situation on the ground? I'm interested further, is the Ministry planning to launch an investigation into the dairy monopoly market? In Europe, anyone can do it without any problems, and we need to consider this. How can Imlek unilaterally cancel the purchase of milk without informing the producers in advance?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28253	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28254	Can the Ministry, or the Government, influence private firms to comply with market rules and respect producer rights? These are just some questions I'm looking for answers to, but the most important thing right now is to do something on the ground to protect our producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28255	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28256	Thank you, Chairman. We are witnessing an increase in domestic violence. Because of the terrible crimes committed by family crimes in Canjiza, Lozovic, Cačka, the public of Serbia has become oblivious in Belgrade. However, the constitutional obligation of all institutions in Serbia is to do their job and to prevent crimes and to appear domestic violence. There's no excuse for not being brought in, not being punished and for not being disabled. It takes emergency measures, systemic measures, legal changes we've been announcing for a long time, and my opinion is that it's the last time they happen. Minister Selakovic announced yesterday changes to the Criminal Law in line with the Istanbul Convention, or the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Children. My question to Minister Selakovic is when will these legal changes be, when will they follow? With Minister Stefanovic on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, we agreed on a new Law on Police Change that is necessary to prevent violence against women, domestic violence and violence against children, and above all I mean by moving the bully away from the apartment and banning contact with the victim that should be determined by the police on the scene or not more than 48 hours after the event. My question to the police minister is how much prevention against violence is being carried out in our school system? So, how much in the teaching content of the next period do we expect to change, or more material in this area? Because it's very important that from the earliest age, we raise our children against violence from preschool institutions. We also have a problem with the sectoral co-operation of the institutions in this area and that we have a difference of conduct, not coordination and centres for social work, police and prosecutors. It's also a big problem that there's no rule about psychiatric patients being released from psychiatric institutions. I mean, while they're in a psychiatric hospital, the health care department does its part of the job, but we don't have control, adequate control of what happens to them when they get out of the hospital. It's a very common case that they don't take regular therapy and become violent again. Also, I expect in the coming period the harmonisation of family and criminal law with the aim of defining families in criminal law includes persons who were or are still in the community. I think this really is the trigger, all these murders that took place for one urgent reaction, and I expect it from the co-ordination body of the government of the Republic of Serbia for gender equality from all institutions, resolution ministries, police and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28257	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28258	On 9 March 2015, I sent a request to the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Dusan Milenkovic, the following content - the Honored Mr Milenkovic, the MP group of PUPS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, addressed Tapalaga Marija from Lokava municipality of Alibunar. In a conversation with me, she stated that she had several appeal proceedings before the High Court for the ruling of the General Court in Panchev. Since this is a work dispute on cancellation, I ask you to consider these items and give me some indicative assessment when a decision on this case could occur. Please, don't take this letter as an attempt to put any kind of pressure on the court you're handling, but only as a request to help me perform my parliamentary duties. After two months, I received a reply from the Deputy President of the Court of Appeal, Mrs. Perside Jovanovic, the following content – regarding your submission to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, 9 March 2015, which points to the address of Tapalag Marijana regarding the appeal proceedings before this court, we would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. The law governing the court's right to appeal to the work of the court shall have parties and other participants in the proceedings. Given that checking through the records of this court's book has not established that you have the party's property, and from your letter unclearly in which you refer that submission, it has not been considered. I'm asking two questions. First, to the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, is this answer in accordance with the law, because I did not refer the complaint but to an application for specific information on a case that has been going on for many years? A second question to the president, or the Commissioner for Information, Mr Sabic, asking if I have the right to request information from the Court of Appeal in Belgrade? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28259	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28260	Thank you, Chairman. My question regarding the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia concerns the interference of party and state structures. In fact, regarding the repetition of a question that I did not get an agreement on, how was Mr. Tony Blair's "delevery yunit" hired by the Republic of Serbia, or was it hired by the SNS, bearing in mind that only SNS ministers attended these courses? The most important question, who paid for Tony Blair's engagement, because we know he doesn't have any excessive love for Serbia, or he didn't grow in the past, but let's see who paid for the organization of such training for SNS personnel in the government. My second issue also concerns SNS activists on social networks, some also call them "bots", are they also the SNS structures as party or state of Serbia? Unfortunately, I have evidence that this is a different matter. I have an official document in front of me, a list of employees in a public enterprise within the EPS, more precisely the Elektrovodina headed by the SNS, under which 49 people were hired from 1 March 2015 to 31 May 2015. What gives me the suspicion that it's about the personnel that are supposed to be working on social networks is their school prep. So the electricity sector's jobs are done, he finished high school technical school, a ceramic, third-degree. Okay, you'll probably ask a question, if he can be a minister of ceramics why he can't be someone who gets electricity. Since 1 March, the trading sector has worked on administrative technical business with secondary school, a textile confectaire. Is that person capable of responding to this task in Elektrovodina? Then we have a third-degree person under the number of 15 high school agriculture, third grade, working in the electricity trade sector. A day-to-day goods dealer works in the electricity trade sector. High-level agricultural school with a regular number of 20 people employed in the energy sector of investment. What is particularly interesting is that among the employees is a person with a high school catering technician, fourth degree, working in the public procurement service. So, the waiter works in public procurement. And instead of providing the state with the possibility that this man is working in his profession, he does public procurement in a public company, and he's probably doing other jobs. A person with ten classes of targeted education works in the exploitation sector, under the regular number of 45 people, high school, writes a graduate working in administrative technical affairs. And what it is, we could say curiosity, is that in this same sector, the person who graduated from the beauty care school - hairdresser III. So, in all likelihood, it's a matter of employees who are supposed to be doing jobs for one of the states that are in power, and apparently it's a matter of mixing state structures and party structures, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, why did he instead introduce a division, not seen in the state of Serbia, and what would he do to prevent this from particularly speaking about restrictions and reducing public sector employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28261	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am taking the opportunity to ask questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the crucial things we consider to affect first and foremost the standard of living of citizens who, as we have witnessed, have been getting worse and worse since 2012. Serbia is unfortunately in a very bad state, the economy is collapsing, the standard of living is no longer even at North Africa level, now it's some Central Africa. Serbia's salaries in January 2012 amounted to 370 euros and 2013 respectively. 350 euros, 2014 335 euros, and in January of this year 325 euros average salary. So the standard of living is constantly falling, the economy is collapsed. We praise the reduced deficit on the account of salaries and pensions of those who earned these salaries and pensions, and I'm sure it wouldn't be that we have a better government, a government that keeps its promise and a government that makes an effort to really make what it promises both in the campaign and later on, keep it. I ask the question directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who said that we will have a four-billion-dollar chip factory that is working on Sheiks from the Emirates and that is to be done in Surcin. Four billion dollars of investment in Serbia would surely prevent the standard of living for Serbian citizens from falling, preventing pensions and salaries from falling further and allowing Serbia's economic progress. Unfortunately, this is just one of the promises made. We ask the question why is this promise in a situation where the prime minister has absolute authority in both parliament and government is not fulfilled? A second promise that would certainly help Serbia to live better and to employ capacity is a promise that in Zemun, it is said, near the airport, an airline factory will be built, this is also published in media that are quite close to the regime. It has been said that around three billion euros will be invested and that these planes will be distributed throughout the planet, and Serbia will become a centre for the production of aircraft parts it has never been. This is just part of the promises that were made, I'm asking the question why aren't they realized? Also, I ask the question of what about the contract signed on the Karajordjevo military facility and why Serbia did not issue the country to domestic paors, but issued to foreigners who, as we know, did not even sow the country, and by contract we have the right to 20% not to yield, but to profit? Since there will be no profit, it is obvious that the contract is harmful and I am sure that the internal affairs authorities will have to deal with the contract. What I'm asking as a question to the Minister of the Interior, we're witnessing that the BIA is very zealously working on the matter of MPs, that it issues even negative security certificates to MPs who control the work of this particular agency, and we have a situation that ministers have been giving off official secrets and that the police have launched an investigation. It was officially announced by Minister Stefanovic. The police have even formed a team that needs to determine the truth and see which one gives official secrets from the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is news from over six months ago. The question is, are the police so incompetent to determine which of the 17-18 people sitting in the government are giving away official secrets or are these secrets obviously such that they can give up? It is possible that these secrets are the culprit for which there are no foreign direct investments and which is why Serbia is in one common disaster and it is obvious that the spiral of accidents and poor design is moving on. I am also asking the question to Alexander Vukic, the prime minister who signed the city's defence law bill, which was scheduled to be found in the Assembly last week, that is, in the Assembly, and then was magically withdrawn from the Assembly. Why am I asking this question? Because we are witnessing that precisely because of the poor management of the city's protection from Serbia today, peasants, farmers, producers are losing enormous amounts of money, and Serbia is losing its export potential, above all in agriculture. I am interested in the fact that news has now been released in the media that the government will compensate for the damage to farmers who have suffered great damage from the city, I am curious to what extent, how and when will the law finally appear in the Serbian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28263	The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandar Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28264	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the distinguished minister and guests, you know how much concern there is in the DS, and that will be a question I will ask afterwards, for couples and farmers, you who gave the country to Darka Saric, Milet Jerkovic and the others, now, from once on, you are worried about the Serbian peasant. That's a shame. Before you, a great politician who sits in the front row said - Partization. Is possible, Serbia's largest partisation was just during Mr. Boris Tadic. He was both the president of Serbia and the president of the party and the Prime Minister and the president of the local self-government, all led by Mr. Boris Tadic. You say he's a waiter, and it's going to be a question I'm going to ask you later, run in some sector some part of it. You were led by orthopedics, life planning, and the environment. How can you not be ashamed? Of course, that'll be one of the questions. Dusn Elzovic isn't a waiter? And he's a waiter, but we know how well he made as a waiter and what he was doing at the Development Bank, what he was doing in the circuit funds, be ashamed of you. Now I have one question since, as a National MP and a councilman in the City of Belgrade Assembly, unlike gentlemen across the street, I am talking to the citizens and I am coming from the Palilu municipality and I am asking the question for the Minister of Construction, and this is how it is possible and I want it to be examined, that municipal inspection, for example, in the Palilu municipality where DS is in power in Belgrade, has so many illegal buildings and that no permit has been issued, that they have all begun to raise magnificent villas and buildings, and not only raise them up, but they are surrounded by windows, surrounding the living space of ordinary our citizens who are exposed to the great pressure of these tycoons, local, self-proclaimed? I ask that question, why isn't the municipal inspection doing its job and who's in charge of a little bit of seeing what's going on in a municipality where the DS has been doing for 16 years? That's one question. The second question is also for the Ministry of Construction to determine why the Municipality of Palilula, a Belgrade municipality that has a huge potential for me, why is the municipality, or the president of the municipality and its associates, why did they take money for the sewers and the plumbing that never went into construction? They took from the people, from the poor people, and they separated from the mouth, and they didn't see any of it because of who they had to learn from, of course, those local officials, because they also had a gentleman who spoke a little while ago, so they put it all in their pockets. Such a practice must be concluded after the DS government in the local government of Palilula, I want the state institutions of the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia to react to the robbery on such a territory as soon as possible, to return everything to the system and within the framework of the law, because citizens living six kilometers by the airline from here, who have neither the water supply nor the sewerage, and someone taking their money, have the right to a decent life and elementary conditions. But apparently you boast of the results, given that at the republican and urban level you had no results, except for the 20.25% deficit in the city of Belgrade, of the various affairs that rocked the capital. No better situation, for example. in a local self-government. This was my duty to bring it out here. The SNS parliamentary group in the Belgrade Assembly receives citizens daily. We listened to them. When you hear one, so you may say, this may not be true, but if it comes to you in dozens and hundreds of citizens with the same remark, it is only proof that corruption in certain parts where DS still makes power. The Serbian Progressive Party will together both MPs and council members fight with all legitimate means under the law to finally end the robbery of our citizens and never to be again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28265	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Ivan Bauer and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the 5th and 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 21, 22, 23 and 28 April 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 39 out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 5th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th session of the First regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 5, 6, 7 and 8 May 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, voted 32 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the motion to withdraw points from the agenda and proposals for supplementing the agenda. The government has proposed to put the draft law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Treaty (the Modernisation of Schools Programme) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 May 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of Public Interest and Special Procedures of Expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Council of the judiciary, in accordance with Article 159(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to withdraw from the agenda the motion for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time as judges, who submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 31 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic under Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which were submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2015. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic, or Mr Vladimir Pavicevic, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28266	The area of planning and construction is very difficult to resolve in Serbia's good laws and it is a tradition that has lasted for decades. The result is an urban building chaos, which should not only be tied to this government, nor to the previous or earlier one. It's part of our tradition not to respect the laws. That's why the need to pass a good law in this area is very high. Such a law was passed in 2003, but then the actions of various subsequent governments and ministers are corrupt, changed in good work. A year ago, we received a new law, or dramatic changes to the old law, for which the present minister herself, said it was not perfection from that area, that we should work further on editing this area and many segments that should have one such law to process were not well solved in the changes and additions that we had at the end of last year. That is why MP Pavicevic and I, together with a team of experts led by Marin Kresic, have made a new bill, which is now renovating some good solutions from 2003 and introducing new solutions resulting from the change in those 10 years. This law, which we propose for the first time, has also established a new Republic Institute for Spatial and Urban Planning as a whole. The Engineering Chamber is being abolished and Serbia's professional chamber is being established. The contact plan is being introduced into the design of the plan. A system of spatial plans has been expanded with spatial landscape plans, etc. There's little time to say now what this law is about. One part was restored, rehabilitated, and what was good in the 2003 Law, and a whole new solution was given for the largest number of new ways to solve the problems in which we live. Over a million housing units or construction units in Serbia are said to be illegal. This is due to the lack of good laws in our past and the poor application of some of the good laws that have been passed, but not implemented. That's why I urge the chairman to press the bell when I'm done, which should challenge the MEPs to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28267	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, two, with abstentions – no vote was taken by 159 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28268	On September 20th, last year, according to the promise we made to the Minister of Education Verbić, that we would help him integrate into the Law on Higher Education the section dealing with academic integrity, we handed over Mr Pavicevic and I to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education. It's a short bill, easy to read, even for those who don't have it. Three members, with the goal of resolving the issue of violation of academic integrity in Serbia's higher education. It has been injured several decades or hundreds of times in the last two decades, and in the past few years it has been injured, or abused from the highest positions of the Serbian government. We have a lot of examples in the government, ministers, president of the state, people at the head of public enterprises, etc. In the debate, Minister Verbic said in September last year that he is aware of the problem, but there is no legal mechanism to prevent it. That is why, MP Pavicevic and I, have made this proposal to amend the law. It is in the first article to add point 1a. which defines what academic integrity is, introduces it into the law, and the amendment in Article 5 is to define what academic integrity is, how it is injured and how it is to be punished. I think this is the 17th time we suggest putting this on the agenda. The debate on this Law can be very effective and meaningful. I'd like to hear arguments from any side that would be against such a solution, against imposing sanctions on those who plagiarize either others or even their academics, under quotes, works. I repeat my appeal that this time and without a bell MPs vote to put this Law on the agenda and that in a reasoned debate, as they usually have or usually do, they say what they think about this Law, which are flawed. We may come up with an even better solution together, although I think the law, as it is, is perfectly clear, precise, without any possibility of causing any negative consequences. Not putting this law on the agenda, refusing the need to discuss it is the same as removing the Bookbooks Act from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28269	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – two abstentions – no, 159 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2015. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28270	On April 20th of this year, 100 years have been completed since the start of genocide against Armenians carried out by the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915 to 1922. This was the reason why a fellow MP and I would propose this Resolution, which we would like to condemn this disgusting act that was done during the period I said and to put ourselves in the position of a large group of countries that have already done so. There are almost 30 countries that have brought similar declarations: the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, some countries within the United States, etc. The German Parliament, two after our proposal, of course, regarding its scope, brought a similar declaration. We do not want to complicate any daily, political life in Serbia or Europe or the environment. The genocide has nothing to do with the current Turkish authorities or Turkey as a state. That wasn't the goal, and that wasn't the goal. The goal on behalf of Serbia, on behalf of Serbian citizens, is to condemn on behalf of the Serbian people a genocide that is baselessly attributed to this country and its citizens and citizens of Serbian nationality in the past few years, because some have allegedly committed us to serious war crimes on behalf of us, and on the other hand, we also have an obligation to the citizens of Serbia who have been victims of serious war crimes in the last few decades. I don't think there's a country in the world that's more interested in condemning the resolution of genocide that was made over the Armenians 100 years ago than in Serbia. This is the state of the paradox. I think it's about time we started solving these paradoxes. One question is the attitude towards genocide. The second is, for example, not much to do with this, but it has indirect connections, which is the signing of a protocol ban on the use of tape ammunition, where Serbian citizens are the biggest victims of tape ammunition at the end of the last century, and we are one of the few states that did not sign the protocol and that is another paradox hanging over the head of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28271	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 164 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28272	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable minister, respected guests from the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the fifth time I propose to the assembly majority to accept the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, in article 41 which speaks of rights, i.e. who has the right to fix and treat mouth and teeth through the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Four times the congregation majority had no ear for my proposal. I hope he accepts it now, because one good part of that congregation majority is my colleagues, by the hand of doctors, and we are bound by the Hippocratic oath, by honoring fellow Members, that at every opportunity, whenever we can help our patients. By adopting this proposal, I believe we're going to help them a lot. What's this about? Article 41. The Health Insurance Act says that the right to repair the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Fund has children under the age of 18, students and schoolchildren up to 26, pregnant women and certain types of patients who have other types of illness, that I am not wasting my time now counting it. I suggested that absolutely all insurance companies, and I would remind you that in Serbia somewhere over 4.5 million insurance companies have the right to fix and treat their mouths and teeth via the Republic Fund, through the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I believed, and I believe now that you will accept this proposal of mine, because there are over 350 million dinars in the position of RFZO in the apprition for dental health care. To achieve this decision, there is no need to increase health care personnel, so it is literally just your goodwill, a dam between all Serbian citizens having the right to treat their mouths and teeth through the RFZO finance, or if you do not accept that they still have to pay for the additional service of dentists even though they regularly pay for health insurance. I sincerely hope you will accept this proposal this time, because it is for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. We're all talking about working in the interest of citizens, this is a classic example of working in the interests of citizens, and I expect that at least those who are medics, according to our people, to pull their feet and vote first in this room for this kind of proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28273	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law to public media services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, last leg of this assembly, i.e. The assembly majority passed the Information and Media Act and followed the law on public media services. I, dear colleagues, have made a proposal to amend both of these laws, because under this law for a full month, or just over a month, a few days over these 30 days, local self-government will lose the right to finance local public media services from their budgets. They will either be privatised, or go to the auction, shut down, and thus the citizens of Serbia will be divided into two groups, into one group of Serbian citizens in the first row and into another group of Serbian citizens in the second row. I hope that we will correct this injustice here in this high house, and by voting for these proposals, we will even the citizens of Serbia, both by obligation and by law. What exactly is this about? After June, in the Republic of Serbia from the subscription, and until the subscription comes to life, the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be financed by RTTV and RTS, as public media services, and all others under Sava and Danube, financed by local self-government, will lose the right to finance from the budget of local self-government and local self-government will be forced if they want to continue to inform their citizens more about the developments in their territory, that this is additionally paid from the budget of local self-government. My proposal is to be equal to the rights of the Serbian citizens, so that the subscription is financed by the local public media service that I in this work material called "Radio TV within Serbia". It is a radio television that would have the same potential as TV and be financed from the subscription that we and our fellow citizens present in this high home to pay neatly in 2017, which are currently covered by 2017, from the republican budget, which again we are all filling with our fellow citizens. I hope that you will accept this suggestion and correct the injustice we have done to the citizens of Serbia, which in a month will lose the right to have local public media information based on the financing of the radio television subscription...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28275	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28276	... Because it's nice to know. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28277	Time's up. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28278	I'll pick up where I left off. So, by voting this amendment, we will bring into the same relationship between Vojvodina and Belgrade and Serbia under the Sava and the Danube that these rights will lose. I remind you that by losing public media services on local self-government, we will also damage minorities in Serbia south of Sava and Danube, because they will not have the same rights to use public media space as they have in Belgrade and Vojvodina. I believe it is our obligation that we, by accepting these amendments, equalise the citizens of Serbia. I will remind the citizens of Nis that in this Assembly they have delegated 12 MPs, that in some kind of referendum, by collecting signatures over 40,000 gave support to local public media services. I will remind you of fellow Members of the Parliament that the City Assembly, which was re-painted by the assembly majority of this high house, has unanimously decided to fight with all forces that Nis and the environment have local public media services. I think it is my duty to remind you that it is your obligation to support the proposal that the citizens of Nis, and also all citizens and Capca, and Negotina, and Dimitrovgrad, and Raska, and the Kings, and Kragujevac, and Svetozareva. Strawberries have the right to have local public media services without additional payment from the local budget. The bill that we passed a little less than a year ago gives these local self-government the right to subsequently finance project additional information. This puts Serbian citizens in a position south of Sava and Danube. By accepting that local public media services are financed from the subscription, we are equating citizens of Serbia throughout the territory both in rights and in obligations. I once again appeal to the MPs to protect the interests of their neighbours who have proposed them to this high house, vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28279	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92 of Opinions 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Special Conditions and How to settle the obligations of residents of residential credits with the currency clause in Swiss, the Swiss franc, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs from Boris Tadic – SSD, ZZS and ZS, to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28280	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, dear Minister Mihajlovic, I am pleased that you are early today and that you will be able to hear what our parliamentary group proposes to protect vulnerable credit users not only in Swiss francs but all credits that are currencyed in the foreign exchange clause. Dear People's MPs, I ask you once again to rise above party interests and try to side with people who are damaged by greening interest banks in Serbia. I particularly welcome the gallery of the members of the Association "Effectiva", the president of the association, Mr Dejan Gavrilovic, citizens who have been damaged by green interest, Mrs Mirjana Zelec and Marko Vasic, and they are with us today, dear MPs, dear minister, to hear from you and to finally judge. Whether you will side with banks, green interest or try to protect citizens who seek only one right, except to pay off loans, to live in parallel, because they have been brought into a situation neither to pay for loans nor to be able to live. We have proposed three laws that would in some way bring justice among the citizens of Serbia and that we disappear again on the side of the banks, we have asked for an amendment to the three laws, certainly that the Law amending the National Bank Law is a roofstone that says that the National Bank should also play a protective role in relation to the users of credit compared to the users of financial institutions. It's not just the role of the People's Bank to protect banks, to say again which green interest makes huge profits and their single-pay managers. The job of the National Bank on this proposal would also be to protect users of financial services, people who take loans, but people who do business with the bank every day and who, if they have 1,000 dinars in their account within a few months, their account amount will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28281	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28282	... A few hundred dinars smaller than being bigger, which would be normal for banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28283	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session be complemented on the agenda by the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the parliamentary group – Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28284	Thank you. So, I was going to say that it's not normal if you deposit in a bank of 1,000 dinars, that in a few months you have less money or that you lose those 1,000 dinars in a year. It would be normal for you to have money in the bank increased since the bank's money places that money and earns profits. Unfortunately, it's the other way around. Unfortunately, with us and our citizens who took loans, let's say 45 000 euros in 2008, some of them are sitting here, in seven years they paid back, say, 25 thousand euros and should owe another 20,000 euros, they now owe 50,000 euros. So they will repay the bank of a loan of 45 000 euros. Of course, this is in the best way to keep the current situation as the National Bank has agreed and has given suggestions to send, I would say, an immoral offer to credit users. Another Belgrade citizen took a 43,000-euro loan seven years ago. Now he owes 60,000 euros. Instead of 20,000 dinars, the war is now 45,000 dinars, and it has returned 35,000 euros, and now owes 60,000 euros, and has taken 43,000 euros. Do you think, honourable MPs, that this is normal? Do you think it's normal for an actor, father of five, Mr. Dugalić and his wife and five children to move out because of these green interest rates from the country because he can't keep a roof over his head? The bank not only takes his roof over his head, he's a life slave to that bank, he can never repay that loan. It's a similar situation with our actors, you probably know them if you don't know the gentlemen at the gallery, Slobodana Micalović and Vojin Cetkovic, who say one word -- slightly speaking, we don't know how to pull out. We've been offered models to solve the loan problem we've had since 2007, which has been growing for years. We cramp, we work and we pay the war. It's scary, and it's hard to tell, says a famous actress. So it's hundreds of thousands of citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28285	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28286	Dear credit users, I can see that you can't even show what's on your mind, that you have to get out of the O.R., but I hope the citizens of Serbia are watching and listening to this. So hundreds of thousands of citizens are in a situation where they can't repay their loans and they're asking you to protect these citizens, to protect their families, their children, that they don't have to leave Serbia. It was done by all the serious countries in the region, and these things don't happen in the serious world. There is no country in the world where you take a 40 000-euro loan and return 100,000 euros if you're lucky. Dear People's MPs, I believe that MPs should be protectors of citizens, not protectors of greeners, high-paying banks where managers earn serious wages until citizens can live off their salaries. That is why I urge you once again to accept these laws, to settle this in institutions so that our citizens don't have to spend time waiting outside the banks, in front of the National Bank, in front of the Serbian government. Let us try to solve this problem in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, MPs. I hope you will vote for this law and you respected credit users full of support for all the time you fight for your rights and for your families.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28287	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who had submitted a group of 16 MPs to the National Assembly on 9 April 2015. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28288	Thank you. I call on all MPs to vote in favour of putting on the agenda a proposal for this decision and to educate together the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. According to its organisation, the polling committee has one representative and one MP from each parliamentary group. The first session of the polling committee would be called by the president of the National Assembly, and the oldest member of the polling committee would chair it until the election. At its first session, the Bureau elects the president and vice president of the polling committee. The key issues on which the survey committee should find an answer during its work and present it to the National Assembly, based on which the defence minister, based on which data are available, made a decision on the Helicopter Rescue Mission, on 13 March this year, since there is no response in any report. The second question to which the survey committee should find the answer is who and why it changed the plan of the aircraft during the rescue mission, since there is neither data in any of the two reports published. In addition to our competence, the Committee of Auditors aims to establish political and personal responsibility. It is our constitutional obligation to deal with this and any delay in the decision to discuss this during the National Assembly session is a common shame for all of us. Sooner or later, we'll discuss this. Most kindly, I ask that it be before, not later, because the people who were killed in that mission deserve the truth, and the public in Serbia deserves political responsibility and accurate and clear information on the entire course of the Rescue Mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28289	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28290	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. We were witnesses earlier, when MP Veselinović explained his three, I will dare say, the marketing proposal of the law. I don't mind guests at the gallery, I don't mind citizens, I don't mind banks, I don't mind making deals with banks with these loans into some other currency, but there's just been an unremembered incident and it's almost amazing that someone puts a transparency into the National Assembly and turns it into a party exhibition, a team before Mr. Veseinovic voted in total from his group five and 13 MPs' opposition. Such an unserious proposal has been followed by party activity from the gallery. I don't mind being called guests in the future, I don't mind having these loans audited and converted into euro, but I have to point out that those who defend them today are actually only concerned about how to bury them. In 2007, when loans were raised, Governor Soskovic and other financial experts from the Democratic Party said it was safest to raise loans in Switzerland and therefore today our citizens suffer the consequences. We've seen real hypocrisis, hypocrites, we've seen immorality, we've seen in action, I dare say, moral misery, because someone responsible and guilty of saving today must return for Swiss francs, on the advice of the then governor of the National Bank, which they must pay for enormous loans, he dared not only...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28291	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28292	... Wait a minute, to propose these laws, but they put in a party transparency.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28293	Mr. Risticevic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28294	I'm asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28295	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because at this point, the Rules of Procedure has not given me the opportunity to react to the events at the gallery. Please, let's just finish the vote, because I thought Mr. Risticevic's injury was to explain the proposal for this point. I put this proposal to the vote, which was tabled by Mrs. Comic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have both Mr. Arsic and Mrs. Comic, please, the word has been made by the MP, Mr. Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 108(1) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because the chairman was obliged to remind MP Janko Veselinovic of everything he does here in the Serbian Parliament. As he explained, he forgot to say that the euro with 80 dinars by 2012 jumped to 120 dinars, and then I didn't see him write these laws, he forgot to say that the Swiss franc from 1.55 to 1.20 from the euro, he forgot to say that when he explained it and ask himself why he didn't write the laws then. He forgot to say that during this very time, the very authorities of Boris Tadic are those harmful contracts made at the recommendation of the National Bank of Serbia, and now seeks and abuses the lowest, most hypocritical, most disgusting way for the political purposes of the accident, which the government of Boris Tadic has caused them. Mr. Chairman, you were obliged to intervene and this insolence to stop. I'm not asking the assembly to come forward in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28297	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. As you said, MP Janko Veselinovic abused his parliamentary post in the worst possible way, but I, as chairman at that time, was unable to respond to the Rules of Procedure. Please, the word has been sent by the People's Parliament Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28298	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated Article 27 and Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges you to care for order at the sitting, and you have allowed the MP to receive his word to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the dispute, during the statement of reasons for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the right of another MP to propose the law. You reiterated that mistake by breaking the law that you gave your word to another member of the people that, under the terms of Article 103, you demanded to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, contests, calls it impertinent, impertinent. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Yes, it is insolent. The People's MP throws it away. I've listened very carefully, so please allow the chairman to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28299	Please allow the exposure to be completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28300	The breach of the Rules of Procedure that you have done so is clearly aimed at disabling the MPs to dare to submit drafts of the law. The amount of anger seen here, and I totally understand why you have to answer that anger transmission, not about what the MP said, but about the events at the gallery. It is a number of your jurisdiction, but it has nothing to do with the right of the MP to submit drafts of the law, as it has nothing to do with the ignorance that, when asked for words of violation of the Rules of Procedure, prevents, silences and insults the other People's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28301	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'm obliged to give an explanation and an explanation. As we have heard from the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, no one has challenged the right of the People's MP to submit proposals for amendments and amendments to the agenda, only the fact that the Member of Parliament who explained the proposal for amending and supplementing the agenda has arranged for transparency to be raised at the gallery, which is not in the spirit of behaviour in the National Assembly under the rules of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of this high house. Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28302	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, at the risk of the SNS MPs not liking what I propose, so that you give them the opportunity to abuse the Rules of Procedure by contesting my right to propose bill proposals, I would like to try to ask MPs of the ruling coalition seven or eight times to support this bill, which consists of only one amendment, to include in the list of criminal acts that do not become obsolete and the criminal act of human trafficking for adoption, i.e. those cases that are so-called baby theft. As uncomfortable as it is for the Prime Minister that we're doing so well, it's embarrassing for me to sit in a congregation where seven times I suggest that the MPs adopt this one amendment to the Criminal Code and that these people, who have suffered a terrible accident, give them the opportunity to have more time to seek justice before the authorities of our country, and that none of the MPs who vote for this has ever said why this is the case. I don't know what new words I could ask you to do and explain why you should vote for this. I can repeat what I said several times. The European Court of Human Rights made its decision on 5 March 2013, and on 26 March 2013, it announced its decision determining that Serbia violated the right to privacy and family life of Zorica Jovanovic, who filed a suit for the protection of these human rights over a child stolen from her in 1983. In that same decision, the European Court of Human Rights has obliged the Republic of Serbia to adopt new legislation by September 2014, which will allow parents who have stolen children to get satisfaction, although this is one of those things where it is a little unclear what it means and what a satisfaction would be. Is that helping to find that child? What would that child today, 30 years later, mean that it was stolen, that his parents bought it? That's why it's very problematic. So, in all these cases, the story is always the same. The parents never got the child's body, the exact cause of death was never established, the autopsy records were not delivered and the parents did not know where the child was buried. Please vote for this bill, because I don't have any other words from these.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28303	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 150 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on freedom of fear, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 19 MPs, on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28304	Please once again, Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, that the bill on freedom of fear should be put on the agenda of the National Assembly, that it should be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that what has been going on in Serbia for decades now, that Serbian citizens suffer pressure and suffer a strong sense of threat and fear by the executive authority. This law, if adopted by the National Assembly, would allow citizens to be free from fear, and those people from the executive authority, whoever is in power, to comply with the Criminal Law in case they implement certain acts, acts or force them to refrain from consummating their rights in a certain period of time. Serbia is today a country in which the executive government carries out fear and exerts pressure on citizens, especially citizens who do not feel the same way as the executive government. Serbia is today a country where political opponents fight in local elections. Serbia is today a state in which media editors, under pressure from the executive authorities, favour only executive power and prime minister. Serbia is today a country in which the adviser of the President of the Republic is in charge of the rehabilitation procedure of Draža Mihajlovic, and then the court makes a decision, behold, miracles, by chance, just because it is there, or perhaps because there is an adviser of the president in the higher court. Serbia is today a state where we cannot have local elections without pressure on voters. Sometimes in the form of concentrates, though unsuccessful, sometimes in the form of beatings, and sometimes in the form of bedrooms and stoves. Serbia is today a country where executives pump huge amounts of money into their local committees that have been disputed. It gives them less and less results, but it happens every day. By adopting such a law, a citizen would be protected from any possible move by the executive authority of this regime, which goes with the aim of changing his opinion, behaviour or consumerizing his rights. This law is more necessary to Serbia today than ever. Today in Serbia, one man decides everything. Today in Serbia, there is one man asking about everything. Today in Serbia, citizens must not say what they really mean. Today in Serbia, citizens cannot be citizens, but can only be subjects. The adoption of this law would be an important first step, though, to the full swing of bringing freedom back to Serbia, where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28305	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28306	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here you go. Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly, for two reasons, Mr. Chairman. The first reason is that you had to remind Mr Stefanovic that this bill is not addressed to the Republic Assembly, but to the province Assembly, because the province's prime minister, Mr Pajtic, since he is not in his job, usually deals with the usurpation of property, so the hotel is used to bring in the council. A hotel owned by the province's government and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina serves to bring in a council member in the local Indjia Assembly, because an insinuate such as Mr. Cadzic, otherwise Deputy President of Beocin Municipality, is being beaten by his own brother, Mr. Goran Jesic. Therefore, all the arguments Mr. Stefanovic used earlier, you could warn him that it refers to the province's parliament, Bojan Pajtic and DS, and that the only fear that Serbian citizens have is the fear of never repeating the irresponsible power of the DS again, and that Serbia's citizens take care of that fear in the elections. On the other hand, you had to ask Mr. Stefanovic if he was still in the DS? Has the Democratic Party, which voted in this National Assembly in 2005, still voted the Law on equalising the rights of the Partisan and Equality Movement, with the Democratic Party voting for such a thing? Why does he now mind a court case and what he is trying, in the old manner of the Democratic Party, to influence judicial proceedings, the judiciary and the judiciary, which is an independent branch of government? Why didn't he mind at the time, and he voted, or his Democratic Party voted in favour of "Employable Monuments", and now he has a problem with court proceedings?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28307	Mr. Granny, I'm obliged to give an explanation. I didn't understand anything Mr. Stefanovic said because he was talking about decades of spreading fear. I know who was in power then, so I didn't understand him. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) I thank you. Since we have not yet adopted the agenda, MPs are reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will not allow until the agenda is adopted to report more after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, until we begin the session, since the session has not yet begun without the adoption of the agenda. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, on a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda on proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 10, abstention – one, did not vote – 24 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I ask the National Assembly's service to make up a consolidated text of the session's established agenda and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e n e d: 1.Proposal of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act; 2. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 54(1) The law of higher education We move to work according to established agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and Zoran Ilic, acting as Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28308	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, please, members 103, 104, 106 and 107 were injured during their previous exposure to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You did not respond under Article 103 when a colleague apparently abused the Rules of Procedure and had a replica of my exposure. Then you hurt 106 and 107 because you said, as chairman, I quote - I didn't understand him. It's really not right what you're doing. You allow your colleague Babic to replicate and talk about everything here, just not about what was the proposal for a law to sew from fear, mentioning an unauthorized body, constitutionally defined, though, the province of Vojvodina, which has nothing to do with the laws, at least you should know, if he does not know his colleague Babic, the District Assembly makes decisions, not laws, that's the first thing. Secondly, we're moving on the question of who evened who. We, unlike you, can say what was not good in the past. You don't have a past. You only have the present that you eat and destroy this country. Your answer to all of this is to allow him to give a lecture here on something that has not been said at all about it in the O.R., and secondly, to say that you do not understand the MP of the people, with no respect for the MP of the people. What does that look like here? You just let an MP yell at us here because Janko Veselinovic has given amendments and additions to the law. What's next? Then you wonder why we need the Freedom Act out of fear. Here's why. Because you can line us up here in the end. It's not right what you're doing. You've broken four members of the Rules of Procedure. Of course you're gonna say there's no basis, you don't understand. But you'll understand, be safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28309	Time. Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. You were the one who did what you said in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you disputed that I violated the Rules of Procedure. So, you used a breach of the Rules of Procedure for Replication. I just gave Mr. Babic an explanation that I couldn't react when he called me to break the Rules of Procedure because I didn't understand you. You've been talking about decades of spreading fear, and I know that the SNS wasn't in power at that time, and I didn't understand the parts of your exposure then. That's something I had to give as an explanation to Mr. Babic, as you are now, I say, what you challenged the previous speaker did yourself, used the violation of the Rules of Procedure for Replication. Thank you. We move to the 1st point of the agenda - the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act - you have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? (Yes) The word has the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28310	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, MPs and MPs, before you is the law on amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. Therefore, the Air Traffic Act was adopted in 2010 and in the period until today, that is, until a month ago when we released it into public debate, we felt that, depending on what we could see in real life, there was a need for this law to be amended and complemented, in this respect, to fix it, but also to bring it in line with all the current European directives and everything that can currently be applied by the European Directives is in these amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. Of course, today we will consider amendments to the law in principle, but what I must stress is that when we observe all kinds of traffic in Serbia, we cannot admit that air traffic is certainly part of the EU, but that air traffic is precisely something that Serbia can be proud of. The government is in charge of establishing the conditions very clearly, that air traffic policy is primarily implemented, that air traffic is safe and secure. This law, in addition to harmonising with European directives, harmonising, of course, many terminology, imports and certain newspapers that have not existed in the Law since 2010. I especially stress, we will certainly discuss this, the formation and the National Security Committee, but also the opportunities that the law allows this time and regarding the different distribution of airports, in order to be more quality, more efficient, to reduce the costs of opening new airports. I also stress that this law, like all the laws this ministry does, was in public debate. Besides Belgrade, there are other cities in Serbia. The law is in line with all the suggestions of all the ministries in the Serbian government, but when we worked on amendments and amendments to the law, then within the task force there are opinions not only of government organisations, but of certain air organisations, as well as of airports, etc. So I hope we have a successful and good debate. We're here to represent the law, defend it, but also if there are additional suggestions that something else can be improved, fixed, we're here to hear and do it. Once again, I want to say that this law should allow us to really do more in this part of traffic because the possibilities for it certainly exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28311	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28312	Thank you very, very much, Your Honors Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates. In fact, when we talk about air traffic, it is the fact that the law on the matter in question was passed in 2010, which in a pretty good way has put into place assumptions for further harmonisation of national legislation with EU regulations, and so exactly air traffic, as you yourself have mentioned and mentioned, and in relation to some other modes of transport, certainly quite advanced and in that sense certainly went far and far, unlike other types of traffic, and primarily from the aspect of compliance of domestic legislation with EU rules, which is certainly a declaration of compliance, which is an integral part of this, as in general, any proposal of the law. Namely, their further alignment with the same, so with the established standards and practice of the international civil aviation organisation and EU liquids, has the effect of the very changes and additions that we are discussing today. What I have to do here, too, is to make one digression, is to show that the choice of international air law is never possible without explaining the role and tasks of certain international organisations that are currently engaged in civil aviation, and it is certain that the international civil aviation organisation, defined by the provisions of the Chicago Convention, has three functions – both administrative and legislative but also judicial. These functions are based not only on the authority which it undoubtedly has, and thus influences the formation of air law itself, but also on what has been present for some time, which is that it actually shows one tendency in general to codify and uniformize air law and I think it's a path that goes in a very good direction. Although in our country, because of sanctions and all that was happening during the worst periods in our country, membership was suspended, it was, fortunately, renewed in 2001 and after gaining independence from the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately for the Demochrists, Serbia is also an independent member of this organization. It seems to me that as he continues to agree and monitor the work, pace and dynamics of the currently mentioned international civil aviation organisation, so we will be obliged to bring our domestic legislation into line, so in that sense this is one of the few laws where I can say that I am not opposed to changes and additions. What is certainly true is the finding that the degree of development of a society is viewed by the degree of traffic development, and on the other hand that the degree of cultural development is measured in general by the culture of traffic. In the 2008 Annual Report of the Republic Development Institute, entitled "Republic of Serbia", it was noted that Serbia is very lagging behind infrastructure reforms in relation to the environment and in relation to the EU countries, that it is at all a traffic network, so I am talking about all modes of traffic, completely unintegrated, that it is undeveloped, uncompetitive, unstandardised with the EU, that the infrastructure and the inadequate organisation of traffic, which is all a major obstacle to economic growth, but not only to the economic growth of our country but also to increase productivity, competitiveness, employment and at all one fast and quality exchange of goods and services. So there was no proper approach, not only to air traffic, but to traffic in our country at all. If we look back briefly, then let's say we notice that the privatisation money we spent on consumption, instead of investing in what we needed over the need, which is exactly traffic infrastructure. It seems to me like it's some kind of missed opportunity, but, okay. If we have in mind who was the finance minister in that year, then I think any further comment is excessive. According to experts, our entire traffic infrastructure was devastated completely between 1991 and 2000, and then until 2000, until today, it was actually repairing, refurbishing, restoration, etc. For air traffic to take place, they are certainly the primary airports, air carriers and necessary institutions. First of all, I am referring to the Civil Aviation Directorate and the Aviation Control Agency of Serbia. Serbia has two airports fully trained for international air traffic -- "Nikolu Tesla" in Belgrade and "Continuing the Great" in Nis. It should be borne in mind that more than 75% of passenger and about 90% of goods transport is carried out through the “Nikola Tesla” airport in Surcin. The airport's capacity is 5.6 million passengers, and its use is about 30-35%. These are the data that I have come up with and I think that 35% are just talking about the insufficient use of available capacities that Nikola Tesla airport in Belgrade certainly has. Serbia has only one airline, as we know – Er Serbia, with a fleet whose planes are over 17 years old average. If we analyse the situation of our fleet and the number of aircraft compared to the total number of people in our country, then we come to the fact that Serbia actually has only two planes per million inhabitants, and the EU countries have 13 planes per million inhabitants. The unsuitable structure of the aircraft, the technical and technological obsolescence, seems to me that I can't root out so easily, especially because it's something that symbolized the former JAT. As far as Er Serbia is concerned, which I mentioned, of course things are moving in the right direction, and that is what is noticeable, and that changes everything that was characterized by the former JAT, which is one complete internality and disorganization. That the situation is improving, also says the data I came up with, which is that on 17 August 2013, the day when record air traffic in our country was recorded by the number of loads, therefore, the operation is that the Centre of Flight Control Belgrade simply showed its readiness to deal with such a great burden, then record for this part of Europe. The proposed amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act that we are discussing today need to take another additional step forward and certainly, at least in the way defined by this bill, which is to do, which is that the provisions of practice are actually being discussed, means that they maintain our current reality, which is not the case with many laws from different substances, where laws and practices are in place, to remove legal gaps which are still subject to the applicable Air Traffic Act, to implement a more detailed and complete normative arrangement where it is necessary, and what changes and additions also seem, of course, that countless times, as so far, will be passed by a sublegal act which will have its legal basis because it represents legal nonsens to provide for a sublaw act. Also, we had a chance to get to know each other. Therefore, the adoption of a sublegal act is envisaged without the legal basis for such a thing being established. Harmonisation with the definitions of the international civil aviation organisation is necessary, as well as the introduction of brand new legal concepts, as already visible in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. Therefore, respect for the rules of flight during air traffic is introduced to the new Article 4a. The proposal we're discussing today. Finally, in my opinion, what was already to be done, but well, at least it seems today and what, in my opinion, is very, very important for one normative good regulation of this law, is to change the very concept of aircraft, I will add – finally the change of the aircraft itself, because the aircraft has been some kind of device with the crew so far, and I simply couldn't understand such a termology. A step further went, and now the question has been raised – and what about unmanned aircraft, because the fact is that they did not have their legal arrangement, and also, the fact is that such a type of aircraft is increasingly common and that it deserves simply to find its place within the legal definition of the bill. Article 6 is also a step forward, and the security of data protection provided by the Directorate and collected by means of a mandatory or voluntary reporting system is certainly a newspaper and, as we could see and well notice, is that its objective is to prevent the character from being directed at what is first and should be, and that is exactly the safety of the aircraft. The unregulated issue of an aircraft flight plan used by the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now finally being removed, since until now, of course, it remains as a legal provision, that the directorate is the one who prescribed a flight plan relating to civilian aircraft, and, of course, the Ministry of Defence remains in charge of prescribing a flight plan relating to military aircraft. The distinction between commercial and non-commercial flying is also good and is very important with more aspects, but primarily from aspects of complexity of conditions that must be met in terms of the first, i.e. commercial, or non-commercial flights. The alignment with the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2008 imposed the need for a completely new legal provision of the very concept of air transport and the notion of regular air transport, as well as financial conditions for the issue of an operational licence, because the financial stability of the air carrier is always causally linked to its safety. To me, of course, the doubt is caused by a solution that represents a newspaper, which is the possibility that an air carrier with financial difficulties can issue a temporary operating permit in case it is estimated that it can come out of, in fact, simply carry out its financial consolidation. My question is, what would an estimate of such a thing be based on right before an operating permit was issued, and what if it was found to be wrong? There is, therefore, someone has made a failure, in this case the directorate, and it seems to me that in this sense it is not enough to determine that the directorate is the one who can put such a permit out of force, and it seems to me that it is not enough to publish such a thing, so that your permission has been put into the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, but that someone has to bear responsibility because he has allowed such a thing at all and issued such an operating permit. We also have some concerns about Article 20. I think there should be some sort of, at least per man, a fixed time limit for the examination of the documentation provided by air carriers in the event of the leased aircraft along with the crew, but at the same time, while maintaining the emergency procedure, because I think there are cases in practice that would justify such urgency. Also, what is good at the changes and additions that we are discussing today is what makes it easier for them, for foreign air carriers, to carry out international public air transport with the Republic of Serbia, and to carry out what is already an example and given in the bill itself, for example emergency medical transport, which is certainly the best example, but cannot be limited to that, because the example has a brightness, so that the reasons for such a thing are numerous. Since our country's visible results are lagging behind on the environmental plan, and for a long time back, I guess that's why this term of environmental protection has been erased in the first place, and now it's predicted that the suspension and restriction of air transport from the proposed Article 23 is given by the Ministry of Knowledge, it's hardly possible for the Ministry of Culture, or, let's say, the Ministry of Education, because it's almost impossible, that there's been an excess of certain values of gas or noise, and the directorate is making a decision about it, but I'm guessing that this syntagma of environmental protection is missing, because in that domain we absolutely have no results. The introduction of the concept of slot, which is of course due to the taking of a solution from European slot allocation regulations, deserves certainly its place in such a single bill and I do not think it represents anything epochal, but a simple alignment with what exists in other countries as well. The definition of non-community flying is also a newspaper of this bill contained in Article 26. The continuous navigation that didn't apply to all aircraft is now changing its ability to safely participate in air traffic, of course without exception, and with just that particular without exception, I think that's the way it should be. The auxiliary flight staff is now cabin staff, as well as anywhere in the world, because I simply don't understand the term "helpful" with an accent on the "helpful" team and I will never be able to understand such a single term. It has been amended by Article 189 of the applicable law, which is of great importance, especially if we have in mind, for example, the tragedy of the German “Germanwings”, which now explicitly prescribes that doctors from a medical institution and who have the right to examine health skills are the only ones who are authorized to actually carry out health checks, to give a medical assessment and ultimately to issue medical assurance. The education of a second-degree medical board by the directorate, and for the sake of second-degree consideration of health skills, and by the right of appeal of a person dissatisfied with the assessment of their health skills, is also a newspaper and also a good solution, so before it is necessary to bear in mind that even so far, doctoral beliefs are absolutely not given to persons when actually candidates have been found not to be medically capable. In my opinion, almost the only member who remains unclear, actually more vague, as if it were necessary to place a decimal instead of a point and execute it, add it or add the extension is a member of the 55th of this bill, which amends Article 1 in Article 194. The air traffic law, which stipulates that the crew of aircraft and cabin crews may form the so-called ‘additional crew members’, which do not belong either to flight crews or cabin staff, so I think that the category of persons should have been classified in a category, as well as that of certain criteria on which a person can obtain additional flight staff status at all. The obligation of a foreign air carrier operating with our country of international public air transport, as well as a charter of flights, to submit to the directorate its air security programme, as well as the approval of that programme to be issued by the particular competent authority of the State of the air carrier, is a completely logical solution and has found its place in such a draft law. It also seems to me that the change in the current member is 231 but also the introduction of a new member of 231. It's actually just a legal representation of real opportunities. Since we are running out of time, there is, of course, a debate in principle when we can speak more specifically about amendments that are submitted to certain members of the law, but in any case in the DHSS vote day, as well as the SPO will support the draft law on air traffic amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28313	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28314	Thank you. Thank you for your comprehensive opinion of the amendments and additions to this law. There are many opportunities that we can really use to make air traffic in Serbia truly at an even higher level and one of the reasons why we have proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Just a few things that were inconceivable to what you said about the temporary permit. So, the temporary permit that is issued, that the directorate is issuing and when you were talking about that it is, of course, related to the financial situation, i.e. It is the directorate who wants to assess or the directorate will have an obligation to create its own document, establish clear criteria on which they will at all be able to give such a temporary permit, of course based on what you have in the law is based on Regulation 1008, so directly related to EU rules. You mentioned something that I think is very important to explain, which is the environment. When emissions are exceeded in the previous law, so the directorate takes over the show, such a situation happens, the directorate then seeks the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and then it just reacts. Now it's a different thing, because it's just the environment or the Environment Agency measure whether there's been an excess of emissions, then they're directly with the Ministry of Environmental Affairs reacting. It seemed to us, and we think it's much more effective than the previous condition. That's where I'd be, if it's in particular, we'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28315	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28316	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today the draft air traffic law, and at the very beginning I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the draft law. Why? Because its adoption will contribute to increasing efficiency, security, security in this area. Simply, at the very beginning, I can't say that Serbia, in 1913, once again, has regulated this area by a legal act, more specifically, in 1913, a Regulation on traffic devices moving in the air has been approved. By publishing that year of such a regulation, Serbia has certainly put itself in line with the advanced countries of that time, which, by means of a legal act, have built the foundation of civil aviation development, not only with us, but throughout the world. What's the situation today? Today, up to 2,500 planes and flying control in Belgrade are passing through Serbia's airspace daily, controlling the airspace not only of Serbia, but also of Montenegro and 55% of BiH's space above ninekm. Looking at this, around 450 aircraft a year pass the area, which has good preconditions to fight for a leading position in the Western Balkans. Why am I saying all this, Minister? In Europe, in fact, the possibility is increasingly being considered, and as things stand, it seems to me that it will also be the inevitability of the building up of the sky above the continent. It's now divided, if I'm not mistaken, into 38, and because of the larger crowd in the sky, the division should be reduced to five to six flying controls. Now, in short, returning to law itself, I will say that several public debates were held in the application of this law, and on the other hand, a meeting at which, apart from the Ministry's representatives, the stakeholders participated and made their remarks and suggestions, and a safe solution to the draft Air Traffic Act, better market conditions are being created for competition in the area of air traffic. One of the important solutions adopted by this law is the authority of the Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate to adopt sublegal acts if something needs to be amended in practice. By giving that authority, efficiency will be increased and some, possibly, problems will be resolved very quickly if they occur. On the other hand, it seems to me that the most important thing in this law is to increase security. The establishment of a National Air Safety Committee is envisaged and will certainly contribute to even greater security, as this will have the task of constantly monitoring new measures to raise security. Also, owners of small private aircraft will not have to submit a flight plan in the free flight zone, to which the current law certainly obliges them. More specifically, this will be made possible by sublegal acts brought by the Civil Aviation Directorate. As far as compliance with the EU is concerned, you have already said that, I think, in this area we have somehow reached the most. It is certainly good to draft laws that are being prepared in this area to work together with colleagues from the EU. Now, Minister, I'd like to throw an accent on a very important topic, which is very important to me at least. It's about Morava Airport at the Kraljevci. Surely, the realization of a project like this would give one new economic impulse to the whole end. To say, about two million people are gravitating to this region, and there are significant tourist destinations near it, and it seems to me that this airport will be particularly important when building Corridor 11, if I am not mistaken, because then we will have a maximum of about an hour until Belgrade. It should also say what has been done so far. First of all, the passenger terminal, which can be put into operation immediately, although the flight-land status is not satisfactory, I'll just say that the track was designed for the Air Force, and these planes are much less demanding than with civil aviation. There are also planning documents for expanding and extending the track, as well as an initiative to develop a network of so-called networks. A cab, which will connect the runway to the platform outside the new terminal. Minister, I've said all of this without having a single moment's dilemma that this very responsible government at the head of Alexander Vukic will find a solution to put this very important project into office. At the very end, I would like to say that in the election day, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support the draft air traffic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28317	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28318	Thank you for everything you've said. Let's just add for the sake of the Serbian public, and I believe you know about the Shipman airport. First, the government's strategic interest is to develop airports, that we don't have only one developed airport, which, of course, is a central airport, but that we have other developed airports. Since this was a military airport, you know we've just launched, that this is exactly the government that launched the ship's military airport to grow into a military-civil airport. Currently, within the Ministry of Defence and the Republic Directorate of our ministry, what is necessary is to establish as a minimum volume of content that the airport could indeed function without being a civil-military airport. We expect to really do the fastest we can on this, just like we've done before. You're absolutely right, it'll mean a lot to that end. Like any other airport we have in Serbia, and there are several, therefore, are not only Belgrade and Nis, the Shipmen, there are other airports. So, thanks for mentioning it. This is really very important for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28319	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dr Muamer Bačevac, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28320	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister and Guests, the bill that is before us today brings really quite a lot of newspapers and current and very effective solutions creates really better conditions for competition in the field and in the field of air traffic. We are facing amendments and additions to the 2010 Air Traffic Act, in order to fully comply with EU law and the recommendations of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The special quality of this legislative proposal is that it pays a lot of attention to security which, we will agree, and the most important and particularly treat, which seems to me to be a complete law fully subordinated and aimed at raising safety in air traffic. Thus, at the very beginning, there is a clear obligation to comply with the rules of flight during traffic. Better security, as a colleague said, will certainly contribute to the establishment of a national air safety committee, which is tasked with constantly monitoring and proposing new measures that could also lift the security itself. The main thing, however, is that there are increased powers of the Civil Aviation Directorate. Much of the rules have been passed over by the Ministry of Transport to the Directorate and have been better defined and defined by the Ministry of Defence, Interior and Traffic, all in order to raise air traffic security. The Directorate can now adopt sublegislative acts if it is shown in practice that something needs to be changed and given this authorisation to the Directorate increases its efficiency and enables a rapid reaction in the necessary situations. The directorate also collects data through a voluntary and mandatory reporting system and thus monitors and monitors everything that can happen and, of course, proposes that such conditions can be corrected. I think this is an extremely important instrument to be given to the Director. I've tried through the amendments to some kind of reward or commendation mechanism to support it even more. However, since we have the protection of information and we have, in practice, that the identity of the person reporting the event should remain hidden, I have come to a coalition with that right and I will give up my amendment. In any case, I point out that the Institute of Event Reporting is extremely important and that it can really improve the safety and security of the air force. The news is that this law also motivates and encourages persons who point to an event, rarely protecting the source of data and guaranteeing the secrecy of collected data. It is also a very good solution to define that the regulations are passed by the director of the Directorate, not by the Management Board, which has been a practice so far. In this way, it seems to me that this institution is being further depolitized and is really allowing itself to be a high-level professional, I hope that it is and will be, very quickly reacting in certain situations, which is another of the security features that is extremely good and which provides quality security in this traffic. We know the board of directors has been acting as ministers so far. However, the government will now appoint members, and this is another good newspaper that will also reduce politicisation, increase professionalism and thus lead to an increase in security in this law. The Directorate has numerous roles and numerous functions. First of all, it determines the airway route network, as a supervisory body, not the Ministry as before. The rules on the search for an aircraft and the rescue of a person are passed by the Directorate, instead of the Ministry. An obligation shall be established to notify the Directorate if it rents an aircraft with a crew. The Directorate shall adopt regulations on working time, flight time, flight duties, rest, shifts, and in accordance with the law. An obligation shall be imposed on a foreign air carrier to submit to the Directorate its air security programme, as well as the approval it has. The Directorate has many more professional competences and is precisely transferring decision-making to this high professional body, which will be made by professionals, is a major mechanism that provides quick and quality solutions and raises the safety of air traffic. I've looked back on only one part of the legal solutions that raise security, thinking that that's enough to show how modern this law is, how effective it will be, and how hopefully it will provide conditions for the development of air traffic in our country. However, I will join my colleague, as I come from the zone of influence that the Shipmen are also interested in, that is, the Morava Airport. I must say, we Sandzak citizens look wide-eyed at this reconstruction, and expect this traffic to be put into operation as soon as possible. This is extremely important, not only for the King, but also for Novi Pazar, for the whole environment, for Raška, Tutin, Vranjska Banja, Trstenik, Čačak, Kragujevac and it is of great importance. We are like a party and our leader, Minister Ljajic, has recognized it and we are really making a great effort to put this airport into office, perhaps five years ago, and to get its work started as soon as possible. A colleague stressed that the completion of Belgrade's highway – Preljina will mean a lot for the Morava Airport, which is gravitated by about 38 municipalities and about a million inhabitants, because I must say that in this area, the central Serbian zone, and where I come from, performs and realises 30% of the total ino-tourism traffic in Serbia. The airport meets that basic requirement to be located at a maximum of 100km from major tourist centres, such as Zlatibor, Zlatar, Kopalnik, as well as Novi Pazar with its tourist potential, since it is a place where they crash, meet and touch two civilizations, two major cultures, it is Bosniak-Islamic and this medieval-Serbian, and that we have something to show tourists. Tourists show great interest, as well as our friends from the Saudi and Arab Emirates who are very often with us and who are interested in helping. You have seen that some important infrastructure projects in Novi Pazar have helped, and we, as Prime Minister Vukic himself, thank you, because he has made this area much more visible. It would mean a great deal to us to train the Morava Airport, not only for tourist, or travel and tourism, where it has a great place and potential in this development, but also for cargo flights. You know that the cities, the municipalities of central Serbia are particularly interested in this type of transport and have proposed creating a common cargo zone of 300 to 400 hectares close to the airport. The initiative was requested by the heads of administrative districts from central Serbia. With that, I really want to suggest that you do everything possible to get this airport started as soon as possible. She noted that there are more airports in Serbia that could be put into office and transferred from military to civil sector and civilian function. One such is a military airport in Dubovo, which could and could have been planned for civilian flights for a time. It could also serve as a cargo transport to transport healthy food and other products to the Turkish market and to the Arab world markets. One such project would be very interesting and would speed up agricultural production on the Cave and Sjenica, as well as in the Goldibor and Goldibor region, given that this part of our country has a really bad infrastructure to work on, in order to fix it, but I must say, very slowly. Opening and adapting this airport for the transport of these goods would indeed be a good solution, of the utmost importance for the economy of this region. In any case, we in the SDP believe that the law is of high quality, that it has adopted all those recommendations that should have been adopted and that it will be a good basis for the development of air and air transport in our country. With that, in the voting day, we're going to give this bill a warm support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28321	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28322	Thank you for your presentation, regarding the law, and for voting for amendments and additions to this law. To highlight the role of the Civil Aviation Directorate, which is becoming a fully independent regulatory body by this law. That's what the government wants. Only one sublegal act will be done by the Ministry. He'll be tied to the National Security Committee, and all other sublaws have an obligation to do the Directorate. We transfer jurisdiction and allow independent action to be carried out. Another very important thing, which is exactly the Board of Directors, which will no longer be made by ministers. I know from my own experience how embarrassing this is, and it's much better to have members of the board of directors be those people who are really involved in the profession and knowledge of an area called the Air Force. Thank you for noticing that. It's a big step when we talk about amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28323	The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28324	The Honorable Chairman, respected Madam Minister, respected guests, respected colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to the discussion of my previous colleagues, and one statement from the Minister, which surprised me a little, was probably a lapus. When she said and when it came to "the Shipmen", just before the MP said – five-year-old pawn and Minister Ljajic, and putting into office the airport "The Boats, which now has a mixed function of civil-lice, or military-civil, and then a previous statement by the Minister who said - this government started the project. That's exactly what you said, whether this government, with Prime Minister Vukic or previous President Dacic, is still not possible, that's three, three and a half years ago, this was five years ago. Exactly in 2009, a project was launched at a time when the defence minister in Serbia was Mr Sutanovac. It is important, and how important it is to complete the project, but I will remind you that a significant 10m-euro donation has been provided for the project. Unfortunately, that donation was not used, it was returned. I think it is necessary that the Members of Parliament who asked this question, and I was going to talk about it, get that question, so I started my presentation precisely from that topic so that we wouldn't forget it, and that we would really hear that real truth when the project started. It is very important to place a large number, not so large a number of Serbia's military-civil airports, in the capacity of both passenger and goods transport. The same is true for the Low Airport, which again, due to this reminder in 2003, was put into operation after reconstruction and bombing in 1999. And important project "Ponikva", which is important regions, which will of course mean for all municipalities, here, of the "Boats" important for Kragujevac, important for Kraljevo, Novi Pazar and Cačak and for the largest number of places in the area of some hundreds of kilometers, as well as Nis, Leskovac, Kruševac, but also tourist destinations that are very important from Kopalnik, Stara Planina, Vlasina and that part of Serbia. I think that this law should be treated and heard about the effects of this law in order to encourage the development of these local airports and we are now leaving from these local airports which are as "Poniks" are important for both Užice and Zlatibor and for Tara and beautiful tourist destinations, a very important issue for all of us. But it would be important to talk here about really concrete data that we're going to stand behind now and after a year and for the next time and respect all those who have done something. Because to complete these projects, it is necessary to respect all those who have participated in previous projects, and then the willingness to continue these projects in continuity to end in the most efficient way, without any vanity. Unfortunately, when it comes to "shipmen", I am really asking the question why 10m euros have not been used to complete the project, and I think that the project is too long, because there is equipment that has not been used and which could have been put into operation by this airport. To go back to this law, of course, this is all about the law, and I think it's an important question that we've talked about with your co-workers on the Infrastructure Committee, which is exactly the key question - what was this law about? The most common reasons are that this is a alignment with European norms, with European directives and I can agree with that. But starting with EU policy in this area, certainly the key issues of European policy are security and deregulation. That's where I asked the question, and I think it's important to ask the question of deregulation here too. Is it true that the European Commission has objections to our agreement with Ethyhad and the way it is managed by "Er Serbia", because this is how most of the management of the non-European company is left? What will be the consequences for us if there are negative decisions regarding this remark? Further remarks are on a potential boost that is not usual for European practice, which is a 50% reduction in airport taxis for Air Serbia, including a 50% reduction in NIS fuel invoices. There are several issues to be raised, too -- what will happen if that remark is accepted and if it is considered a threat to competition. I will remind you again of not so long ago when one of the former airport directors was arrested and filled the headlines for signing an unfavourable contract with "Viz Ero". One of the responses of his colleagues to the Infrastructure Committee was that it is exclusively the right of the Belgrade Airport to set discounts according to its business policy and this discount is not quite as common as 50%, and the next is probably "Viz Er" and "Montenegro Airways" or perhaps someone else. So, I remember that Velimir Radosavljevic, director of the airport, was arrested and arrested for a 20% discount on the Viz Er company. At the time, such a contract was considered unacceptable and harmful to the state – 20%. We have excuses here, it is possible that this is logical and it is possible that at the moment "Er Serbia" has 50% discount for airport fees, and the state of Serbia is the majority owner of the airport and how the state gives up that level of income. Of these incomes, you can certainly do a lot of things about that other important thing, and that's a matter of security. As passengers we can see, and here I thank my fellow Bosniak who mentioned it on the Infrastructure Committee, we can see this mixing of incoming and outgoing passengers. Maybe someone doesn't mind. It won't bother you in human terms, but when it comes to security, it's really problematic and of course this law treats it seriously, but obviously it's not a lucky thing. So, would increased revenues from Belgrade Airport contribute to a faster solution to this security problem, and would that make us much more efficient in this regard? The issue of security is also very important in this legislation with one important question for you, whether we have succumbed to commercialisation and the natural desire of "Er Serbia" for higher incomes, greater efficiency, greater accuracy in flights, with the simplification of the procedures that we will see in this legislation in the transfer of luggage. If I'm wrong, you'll tell me, but I think it's precisely out of the desire to speed up the process and transfer the luggage, because now Belgrade Airport has the majority of the revenues from the passengers right now, it wants to simplify and speed up the procedure, but are we losing to security and additional checks. Have we missed one step in that check, the next check the luggage, and yet with the view and structure of the passengers and the way of this transfer and the growing challenges in the security sense both in the world and in Europe and, of course, with us in our space. So, extremely serious questions to get us through them superficially. That's why we need your clear answers. The second component of security is certainly a matter of health. We've seen how many infectious diseases go through these spaces and passengers who can harm themselves, but also their environment, by mixing and under-efficiently organising the transfer. So, one of the more important issues and, of course, what my colleagues were interested in, is the state of the airport "The Boats" as the people around Užica and the people around Užica, the Zlatibor County, are very interested in the "Poniks" so I am particularly interested in the Niški airport. I was fortunate to be involved in the reconstruction and restoration of a large wound for the City of Nis, and in the security and environmental, if you will in any other, infrastructure sense, of a heroic restoration then people who took out 30 unexploded missiles to the depths of about 30 meters, with unexploded charge and showed great heroism and a desire to put it into function for the citizens of Nis. They've taken huge risks, huge efforts. The level of the airport was raised to a certain level there in 2004 when it opened and I will tell you that there were then direct lines "JATA" both towards Zurich and towards Frankfurt and a short time towards Paris. So, the only line that wasn't profitable at that point. There were no donations from the city of Nis and the city register at that time. It is true that when we talked about 2008, there was also the "Montenegro Erveiza" for the flight to Zurich, but I think it is very important to say that there have been direct lines to Zurich and Frankfurt since 2004 which have been very profitable. It's now a matter of preparedness, it was a matter of willingness to invest in that market, because it was never safe if you didn't provide continuity for some time that there would be enough passengers. Always the easiest answer was that we didn't have an answer to it, we don't have enough profit from such flights. I think that at that moment "JAT" as a state system had responsibility for all of Serbia, according to Serbia's demographics and to all these airports and regions of Serbia to develop this type of efficient traffic to also work on the maintenance of the population, but also encourage development and economy and of course communication between people, goods and ideas. So, I'd like to, and I'm pleased to hear that it's working on modernising the low airport, and I hope that the process will be over soon. So, supplying equipment that will provide both take-offs and landings in difficult meteorological conditions. I think it's very important to work and respect the Open Sky Act. I hope that if "Er Serbia" has no interest in flying from these airports, both Nisha and Ponikva and the Ships that the Lou bone of the company will find its own interest and that a favourable tariff policy as Belgrade leads to "Er Serbia" so the policy of these other airports towards low-tariff airlines will encourage this development and flights from all over Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28325	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28326	Thank you for the questions you asked. I don't think I missed anything. Now I'm going to try to answer each of the questions and dilemmas you have. I know that you discussed this on the board, but because of the citizens and because of you, the issue concerning "Er Serbia" and control over "Er Serbia" the European Commission has launched a determination whether the provisions of the Single Aviation Agreement apply. First of all, for your information, the latest information suggests that we have not violated any single agreement, no single position. The second issue of "Er Serbia" also concerns incentives, a relief, whatever you call them, which you mentioned. I must say that the government has made very clear guidelines to give incentives in terms of dependence and not only of "Er Serbia", but of any company that affects the increase in the number of passengers, the size of the business, and in this sense "Er Serbia" has such a kind with the government's decision and I would not mix it with the situation of the previous, or one of the directors against whom the procedure is being conducted, to put it so. It's not like that. So there are clear rules. There is a clear decision by the government and does not apply only in this sense to "Er Serbia". Furthermore, what I think is terribly important - the safety issue that you mentioned. We're under constant inspection and monitoring. So we couldn't do a lot of things if we weren't under constant inspections. Two were inspections by the European Conference of Air Authorities. There's not a single thing that's against regulations and that threatens security in any way. Of course, these inspections usually continue all the time. Two or three will be a year. So far, we have no problems at all. Is there anything we can do to improve? All we're doing and this law is in that sense, we're going to improve to make it even better. You mentioned Nis, and I'm going back to the Boats, of course, and you mentioned it in 2004. If something had been good, it wouldn't have been interrupted. So it's absolutely certain -- why would someone break up like that, which is 2004, all the contracts that were made? But it's also the fact that last year it was the first commercial contract without any kind of subsidy, the donation of the city of Nis so we could actually have a qualified low airport. You know as well as I do, the equipment has already been prepared, or has already arrived. The second part of the equipment is currently being done and "Vizer" has accepted everything we have agreed on and not only by contract but by equipment and landing and take-off in conditions that are bad. And we will also have that airport because Nis is a very important part, a significant centre when we speak and when we look at all of Serbia. I think there's a lot of opportunities in front of Nis and this airport and, of course, a lou bone company that's accepted by such a commercial contract that we can really on this side of the government's point of view just say hello and I suppose in that sense you welcome it. When you mention the Shipmen, finally solving the status, I agree, and you're right, it has been launched in previous governments, not only in this government, but finally solving the status, I really believe that we will settle it this year. We need a few things to know, some information. There's a former minister, so I guess he can always confirm that. As far as I'm concerned, and how many experts from the institution have informed me, firstly, a lot could have been done, and first of all it concerns that you've created terminals without creating conditions for landing and take-off, so that the runway was not wide enough, so that it's currently working on it. So these are things that went in reverse from the order that was needed. So it could've been faster and it could've already been over, we could've all been talking about ships being a civil-military airport, not still working to establish opportunities for it to actually be. When you mention a donation and I have to welcome the decision of the previous ministers, why they didn't use the donation. It's not a donation this ministry hasn't used. I'm sure you know the details. It's a job that was estimated to be worth 25 million, according to our assessment it was no more than 10 million and Serbia's obligation to pay back 15 million, so I don't know exactly how it is possible. Of course, you'll correct me and say that's not true. There is no donation that the Republic of Serbia will not use if it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, the Brodjevci Airport will soon be a civil-military airport and we will be able to use it and it is important not only for tourism as we mentioned here, but for exactly what is called cargo transport and I believe that we will be able to talk seriously about boaters besides Nis, Belgrade, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28327	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: Replica or Rules of Procedure. I'm mentioned as a former minister. I know, but it's not enough that someone says it's a former minister. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: That's not true.) I know Mr. Sutanovac, but there are other former ministers, former Prime Ministers and more. No negative context. If it was a negative context, I'd react to it. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "Well, no, but she said something... She meant me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28328	Madam Minister, honourable MPs, a member of 107 has been injured. For me, the dignity of the National Assembly is not respected because on several occasions you have spoken things that are not true. So, in your presentation before this, you said that this government, and you need to keep saying that this government created both land and air and fire and sea, started the conversion of Morava Airport, and I will remind you that this building that you mention was built and that the most beautiful building south of Belgrade was built recently in April 2012, as well as the latest tower for "athar" was completed. What you're saying as a lie, which is a mantra used by Velimir Ilic, is that, according to the grant agreement, Serbia commits itself to something. I'm willing if you allow us what your e-mail is, since you're new to that ministry, I'll send you that contract. I own that contract. I'm going to send you this contract so that you can read the obligations of those who donate, except to control the way money is spent, which obviously didn't work out for this government. That's the point. You weren't in that position, so you don't know. Otherwise, the job was started in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. I personally ran it, ran it, and it was planned that in the summer of 2013, planes fly a lot. Otherwise, you know, the airport has been trained today to land “ator aircraft. ” He landed in 2011. I was in it myself. These things, if you don't know, since you've been Minister of Energy, poorly since you've been transferred to this place, please ask your colleagues who are sitting here or ask the Minister of Defense who would have to have it in his file.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28329	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28330	So there's written everything. If you don't, I'll deliver the contract. Please tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28331	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not right to insult members of the government in this way. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "I insult you"? How did I insult you? ) Also, I am subtracting two minutes from the MP's group's time because you have misused the wording of the Rules of Procedure and replicated practically the minister. Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28332	A few things, very important. You're absolutely right that it was trained for ATR and that in 2011, you were just on a plane that landed, because everything that was made was made for one landing and the media propaganda you were running in 2011 to take pictures. That's right, I agree. It's not about whether the building is beautiful, I was there, it's beautiful and everything is beautiful, except it's empty. It looks fantastic, but it's not the purpose of the airport, it's beautiful, it's the purpose of the airport to work here and it works, it's the purpose of the airport. That's where we agree, I guess. As for the contract you're talking about, I don't mind if you leave the contract, I'm still behind what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28333	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP Stefana Miladanovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I'm right, I'm misreaded.) Mr. Sutanovac, please read the Rules of Procedure. Oh, I'm sorry, but it really doesn't make sense. Here you go, Mrs. Miladinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28334	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, respected guests, there are extensive changes and additions to the law that actually regulates the area of air traffic in Serbia and is practically roof law when it comes to air traffic. In fact, this law was passed in 2010, you spoke of it, it suffered two amendments and it can certainly be said that this is one of those laws that regulate those areas that require daily, or annual alignment with international regulations and standards and, of course, new technologies. At the very beginning, I will look first at some provisions of the law in the first part of the law. When it comes to new definitions, my colleagues talked about it, Olgica Batic mentioned it, and as far as I'm concerned, most importantly, the definitions, the new definitions of aircraft. This change is due to the change in the concept of aircraft which, according to the applicable law, does not actually regulate drones and I believe that this is extremely important, given that drones are something that is extremely significant today and present in air traffic. The law creates the basis for closer conditions for safe use, then the classification of equipment, the maintenance of these aircrafts, too, will be prescribed for persons who will use these drones, and from the safety aspect I would say that it is extremely important that these aircrafts will be recorded, or recorded in the aircraft register. There is also a full harmonisation of the definition of public air transport and regular air transport. New categorizations are also mentioned, such as commercial and non-commercial flying, a slightly different category of airport, i.e. the division of the airport, and I will talk about it later, and we have a new or modified air staff categorization. One of the most significant changes, and it actually goes through the whole law, is, in fact, the Civil Aviation Directorate. Data are new powers, i.e. competences, from now on, the Directorate will approve air traffic routes that have been approved by the Ministry of Traffic with the consent of the Ministry of Defence. Then, they will recognise certificates for the provision of air navigation services issued in a foreign country, where these documents will be accepted without the conduct of the procedure, which is extremely important. It is also important to strengthen the regulatory role of the Directorate and will definitely ensure more efficient and operational work of the Directorate itself, because professionals, or persons working in the Directorate know best what regulations they need to make to be more efficient in their work. Of course, the solution relating to the composition of the Management Board of Directorates is also amended. The SPS Parliamentary Group certainly supports this solution. Instead of ministers, we certainly support the board of directors to be persons of the profession. The amended responsibilities of the Management Board, when it comes to the exemption of the powers of regulation, is another thing that we support. As far as all the transactions carried out by the Directorate are concerned, they are defined according to EU requirements, and the compliance of the Directorates with European regulations is regularly checked by the European Air Safety Agency during its staging checks. For example, here is the director of climate control, on their request to the Directorate, the inspection supervision was returned, while on the other hand, the investigation of the incident from the Directorate passed into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Traffic. Also, I think it is necessary to say that the results of the checks mentioned clearly show that the Directorate is fully in line with the requirements, since the Agency has awarded accreditation to the Civil Aviation Directorate's Department of Navigation to carry out a verification of the aircraft maintenance organisation, after which these organisations are directly certified as if the Agency itself had been working. I mentioned the board of directors. Of course, asking whether the state has control over the work of the Directorate, we certainly have and support the formation of the National Committee for Safety in the Air Force. In the case of air traffic, the law fully harmonises the definition of public air traffic and regular air traffic, and defines more precisely the general conditions for issuing an operating licence to air carriers. There is another harmonisation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 1008/2008, which is a detailed definition of financial conditions for the issue of an operational authorisation. The strict financial criteria to be met by air carriers are foreseen in order to carry out public air transport. This is also extremely important from the point of view of security, since the financial stability of the carrier certainly also affects the safety of air traffic. Terminological synchronization has been performed. It is one of the preconditions for issuing an operational authorisation to carry out public air transport, i.e. the certificate of competence to carry out public air transport shall be replaced by an aircraft operator certificate. Legislative amendments make it easier for a foreign air carrier to carry out international public transport with the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to speed up the procedure, following a new solution to an individual airline taxi flight, more importantly, urgent medical transport, it is sufficient for the foreign carrier to obtain the approval of the Directorates which, by emergency procedure, issue. The law also prescribes the total prices of air transport, not only for regular, but also for emergency air transport. When it comes to air personnel, the law gives modified air personnel categorization. The proposed change has been renamed as cabin flight crew so far, and paratroopers are classified as flight crews. Technical flight control personnel representing one of the categories of air technical personnel, the air navigation service provider, which has so far carried out tasks on the basis of a certificate of training of this change, shall be classified as authorised personnel, shall provide for an exemption for training for the acquisition or renewal of cabin crew permit, for its own needs to perform and the aircraft operator in public air transport. From the point of view of security, it can be said that these changes and additions certainly improve security. The airport operator's obligation to establish a controlled and secured restrictive zone, and then the official passage and to make these zones clearly marked, is prescribed that in the controlled zone of the airport and the restrictive zone a control of the access of the person and the vehicle is carried out and that the security inspection is carried out at the entrance and within this zone. In order to make air traffic more secure, special conditions are prescribed for planning, designing and building airports, as well as conditions for maintaining airports and airport services. When it comes to the suspension of public air transport on-line, if the emission limit values of gases or noise are exceeded, the Directorate is now directly authorised to make a decision. This is something that was a dilemma and colleague of Olga Batic, but the minister, you answered her who was actually doing these measurements, because in the explanation we received, it was not clear, at least to us. When it comes to airports, it was also said that amendments to the law are being made to a slightly different category. We've kept the division to military, civil and mixed airports, and so far the division of airports, airfields and terrains is leaving. Depending on the purpose and characteristics of the airport itself, as well as on the type of aircraft which can land at such airports, certificates or authorisations for use or consent for the use of the airport shall be issued. The obligations of the operator, the notification of the Directorates and the competent flight controllers of the changes and the suspension of the use of the airport shall be prescribed. The possibility of changing the authorisation, i.e. consent for the use of the airport, as well as the possibility of their transfer, as well as the possibility of issuing a temporary authorisation under certain conditions, is foreseen. What is important is that this law regulates the conditions for obtaining the properties of a mixed airport more precisely, that certain provisions provide for contracts between the Ministry of Defence and civil operators who have the permission and certainly that this is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to equip all airports that can, of course, be used for profit, investment and maintenance. As I said, in 2010, when we adopted this Law, we practically enabled the liberalisation of air traffic operations and I would take this opportunity to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a successfully implemented programme or a project to transform JAT into Er Serbia, because we are witnessing that business is expanding, that we have introduced new standards and new destinations. Security has been improved and serviced in air traffic. I hope that soon in this spirit we will open the first intercontinental flights, since a few days ago we here have ratified the agreements concerning this and certainly it would be nice to have Belgrade directly connected to the American continent after 23 years. Thanks to Er Serbia's successful business, we have a successful business and "Nikola Tesla" airport. You mentioned some records. This year, "Nikola Tesla" airport will record five million passengers. I need to get one piece of information. In 2005, "Nikola Tesla" Airport was projected to be five million passengers in 2030. The government's strategic decision, when it comes to transforming JAT and amending this law, will contribute to further the development of air traffic, but thus Serbia's economy. In the end, I can say that the idea of uniting all airports operating in public, and I believe that you, Minister, are also a supporter of that, is very acceptable to us and the SPS will also support this law, but also an initiative to unite all airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28335	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28336	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister, this is one of the laws that has captured our attention and we have really analyzed every member in detail. We have not yet made the final decision whether or not we will vote for him, because we expect your answers to the amendments we have tabled. Secondly, we expect, first of all, that your response to our key remarks that this Assembly adopts the laws, but that, unfortunately, the Government is not applying them, and that the role of parliament in the supervisory work has been neglected, and that we have a serious problem in supporting laws that do not have a clause which the government commits to, after a certain time, the minister will appear in the Assembly and say, "Good Day MPs, I proposed this law a year ago, the effects of this law are you, you and you, the financial effects in another area, and so that we see what the ministry did in the meantime. So in that part, if you convince us that this law will be applied and if you accept any amendments, we will make our decision based on that. So after the day of the amendment debate. However, it is immediately shown, therefore, even at first sight, that this law will be difficult to apply. Why? Because it has become a practice that, although a significant number of legal norms is changing, it is going to amend and supplement the law rather than pass a new law. Madam Minister, you've probably seen what it looks like now. So these are pages and pages of the text, and then the text in capital letters, so that the MPs can find their way around it. How will those who apply the law be able to do so? And you know what it looks like in practice? That's what it looks like when you want to find some law, go on the site and get one of the versions of the law, and you're not sure whether it's a purified version of the law or not. Of course, you will say that the official messengers are the ones to be read. That's right. But you have an amendment to the law and to the one who has to apply the law remains to compare the old and new provisions. Because of all this, the first grudge is in that part, that I think we should go to a new law. I haven't measured whether it changes more than 30% of the provisions, since this law has 80 and some members. Maybe not. Maybe more. But I'm talking about the practicality and the fact that these changes are significant, that this isn't about changing the point and the point, it's about the whole new chapters. In that sense, my criticism is as a lawyer. On the other hand, it is certainly necessary to bring this law in line with European legislation, and you have made it very clear that this air traffic law is in line with the standards, recommendations and practice of the international civil aviation organisation (IKAO) and the EU rules and legal assets. Now, here we come to the key thing. We are changing the laws on the basis of EU legal flows, so to speak, formal sources of EU law. But unfortunately, we don't behave in that part of applying these fluids in practice. So we pass the law and then we don't apply that law or apply it just in a small amount. Minister, I'd like to ask you a few questions. I really don't have enough physics knowledge to understand things. It may be from the point of view of a physicist who is correct, but I ask you, if possible, to clarify the provision for me. I really read it ten times, and I didn't understand it. You'll find that easily, that's Article 3. Therefore, the aircraft is defined and said to be – the aircraft is any device that is maintained in the atmosphere due to the reaction of the air, except for the reaction of the air that is reflected from the surface of the earth. I have to admit, I don't get it. Maybe this provision could have been a little clearer. On the other hand, it's also about terms, please give me an answer. So position 24, says: “The local night is every period of eight hours, between 22 and 8 hours, local time. ” So, that local night is every period of eight hours, between 22 hours and eight hours, local time. As far as I can tell, there's 10 hours, not eight hours. It's possible that it's at that 10 o'clock - 8 o'clock. But you see the following attitude, he says: “The local day is a 24-hour period starting at zero hours, local time, so it ends at 24. ” So it's not the same measure, 24 hours here, 24 hours, zero to 24, and here's the possibility. In that part, I think this should be a little clearer. So, if this wasn't the next position, this previous position could be the possibility of a local agency to determine that nighttime. I don't get it, but let me just say, you're gonna help me for sure. It says: “The additional crew members are technical personnel who do not belong to the flight crew or cabin crew, but who has been assigned by the aircraft operator or on the ground to assist the pilot on flights where the use of special aircraft equipment may be required. ” Is that Oliver Antic, perhaps? This member practically described him. So he was neither flight personnel nor auxiliary personnel, but he followed the flight and knew the elements of that flight from the beginning to the end. Have you, Minister, during this period tried to arrange this area and for such a single person, who interferes in everything, foresee one provision? I ask you to see, since, right, Mr Oliver Antic practically accused you of having coffee or whatever was going on there. Now, one definition that I liked very much about meteorological analysis. This information was created by a detailed study of the state of the atmosphere above a specific area, based on current observations and the next weather forecast. I'm asking you, Minister, did these weather forecasts have in the Republic Government, the competent ministry of the previous days when the city has beaten fruit and vegetables in Serbia and why has the anti-aircraft defence not responded? So this is all about the subject, Mr. Granny. On the other hand, please, Minister, if it's possible to intervene. I didn't notice a provision here last night that could be a distraction, we didn't respond to the amendment. Article 10 defines what drones are and says: “Airless models, rockets and other flying facilities can be used for economic, scientific, sports and other purposes, so that they do not endanger air traffic safety. ” Because of what happened to us with those drones, I think this part should predict that they're not jeopardizing citizens, that it's forbidden for these aircraft to fly above the public gathering site. So this is what I'm serious about. You did not in this law determine whether it is punishable if the drone, with or without guidance, is to say, install or launch above the point where the citizens are gathered and which could endanger their safety. On the other hand, I believe, your honors Minister... Aren't you at the opening of work on the Jell-O Bridge today? You will be? Okay. I haven't finished yet. What particularly strengthens me in the decision that we should not vote for this law, although I say, I hope that you will respect our amendments, is a criminal policy. In fact, a very mild criminal policy is a violation of the provisions of this law. Now, to be clear, you've had the previous law in mind and you've corrected the criminal provisions for more, but I don't think that's enough in the social dangers these violations pose. For example, a fine of 25 to 150 thousand dinars, he says, will be punished for a violation of a natural person if he carries out traffic or flies over cities, settlements and industrial buildings below the level established by the Airspace Class Regulation, referred to in Article 37 of this Law, Article 8(1). I'll tell you the practice. Here, all those who are from Novi Sad here can confirm. There's a physical face in Novi Sad that so when it comes to it or when it's in a mood to start its own plane and fly over the New Sad, above the roofs of buildings, above the nursery, etc. And that face, according to this law, will pay a fine of 25 to 150 thousand dinars. Do you think the person who owns the plane is fined by 150,000 dinars enough to stop him from flying when he comes to fly, to show a guest town and to fly a little over the main street in Novi Sad, above housing, etc? Do you think that's enough punishment from 25 to 150 thousand dinars for someone who uses an unmanned aircraft, an aircraft model, a rocket or another flying object, in such a way as to endanger the safety of air traffic? I don't think so. So, I think your criminal policy is... You have some, you might say, 74 criminal provisions. All 74 criminal provisions are set to punish a natural person from 25 to 150 thousand dinars. Some of the violations I have not stated are far more dangerous even than these violations. I think that criminal policy has to change here, that the person who wants to turn on his plane's engine and fly over the inhabited area needs to think about whether or not that plane might be taken away from him, so it's like a security measure and whether he's going to pay such a fine that he'll never think of it again. Please, Minister, think about it. This is particularly important to us when it comes to this part of criminal policy because without this criminal policy, we will come to that position that I was talking about at the beginning of the interpretation of our position on this law. We will come to the fact that laws don't apply, among other things, because inspections are inefficient, there aren't enough people and because people risk paying the fine because these fines are real, very low for people who have aircraft, or who have planes. This time I'll stick around for these few criticisms. We'll make detailed reviews and suggestions the day we discuss the amendments. Once again, let me express my great satisfaction that my perseverance, perhaps your desire, that the work on the Željjelj Bridge will be continued and I hope, indeed, that your promise will be made a week, eight months ago, and that you will invite me to begin to continue these works, not by proving ourselves behind the pay phone who is right in that part, but that Novi Sad will get the third bridge. New Now had three bridges when it had 100,000 inhabitants, now it has two bridges and has 300,000 inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28337	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28338	As you said your perseverance and my desire. No, my job and your wish. Yes, you're right, today all the annexes of the money transfer contract have been signed and the Želj's bridge continues to be done with great work, perseverance, above all the Republic government, awareness of the Mayor of the New Sad, above all of social responsibility, then of course everyone else. And we're going to go to the Jell-O Bridge and I believe in 17 months it will be over. Once again, there is no worse thing than the fact that infrastructure projects stand, the Željev Bridge spends four million euros a year on us, in terms of when we don't finish it. So we lost so much every year, and I had to rely on what you just said. And now to go back to the law on air traffic amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, I can't agree with you because the results simply show that it's not true, which is that the government doesn't apply the law, especially when we're talking about the Air Traffic Act, and there's not enough inspection and there's not enough inspectors. If one inspection is good, and we have a lot of problems and I agree in many that there are not enough people, then it's an inspection of the Civil Aviation Directorate. When you mentioned the New Now case, you're right, there was also a report. The inspector was going out, and as far as we know, and now I apologize for reading, because now we've got that information. So, the Novosadians reported that flight. That gentleman took additional tests to renew his license, so his license was denied. A misdemeanor procedure has been initiated in court, which has been filed by the Directorate. Of course, you mentioned it today, so we will, if we have to go further out into the field. But, then, it's not true that the inspection isn't working and that it's not working on that basis. The second thing, when you say the law works visually one way or another, or you think there should be a new law, it would mean that the 2010 law was not good. We don't think. You brought it, it was good, it was great. Some circumstances have changed, and we simply need to bring it into line with everything that is in front of us today, are European regulations, but also everything else, and try to raise security to a higher level. So it's normal for every law you get to have that part that gets away from the law, you have a part that you can just see what we're really changing. It is my suggestion that whatever law we do, that all MPs can see what we have really changed, because from my own experience a few years ago, I had the opportunity to look at new laws that are changing, or amend and supplement the law, where there are one or two words in a member, and I have no idea what an entire member is. It was just to make it easier for you to commit yourself to the law, as you said yourself, that you had dedicated yourself. We'll take a look at the amendments. As far as criminal policy is concerned, I agree with you that special attention should be paid. We'll look at the amendments, I agree that it should be a lot, maybe even more serious, but let's look at the amendments. As for those terms you mentioned, etc. Now, you should know that these are not Serbian definitions. So if we were to make them, define them as such, that these are definitions that must be taken over by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and these are things that we simply have to have in terms as such. I'm not a physicist either, but when it explains to me that when a plane lands, what kind of resistances occur, I don't think I should talk about it, or that I should know, but what our mission is to have the conditions for air policy to be implemented. That we have the conditions to develop air traffic, to apply the law, and, of course, if not applied to use, that is to use criminal provisions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28339	I thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Mr Zlata Djeric, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28340	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, today we have before us a bill that amends and complements the relatively recently adopted Air Traffic Act, if memory does not deceive me, it is about five, six years ago, the law passed. And, like any law only when it comes into real application, then you see its inadequacies and then it harmonizes with the real needs of life, so does this law. So this law, like many others, was brought into a period of the feverous legislative activity of this high home, when we hurried to change the existing legal framework as one of the essential assumptions for gaining EU membership candidate status, in which we managed in the meantime. This fact certainly cannot be maintained if we want to become a full member of the EU in due course, and therefore logically further harmonisation of legal matter in the Republic of Serbia with international standards in the relevant areas, as well as with current regulations in force in the EU area. International air traffic standards are primarily established by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Also, as the Proposer himself states, in the light of this law, it is necessary to remove certain implementation problems in practice of certain provisions of the Air Traffic Act. Therefore, to allow certain legal gaps or shortcomings to be filled in. As I said, the original law was passed at a time when we were in a hurry to comply with certain deadlines, so it is quite logical that in these few years its application was seen and certain shortcomings, especially given the exceptional dynamics and rapid development of relations in the areas that this law regulates. So, it's just the changes that come at the speed of flight. How dynamic air traffic is, in general, an illustration with several examples. First of all, there has been a huge increase in the number of passengers using this type of transport, because air traffic allows to be saved on the most important and irreparable corridor, which is time. It's self-aware in modern time that this is the way we can get to some of the times that we're missing, air traffic has become one of the most powerful and most attractive transports in the world. The first ten airlines by the number of passengers transported on international lines carried nearly 400 million passengers in 2013. The first two places are so-called. "Lou bone" by Ryaner and Izzy Jet, whose services during that period have been used by over 130 million people around the world. They are followed by "Lufthansa" over 50 million, and then "Emirates" with 43 million, "British Airways", "Er Frans" and so on. When it comes to domestic air traffic, in this category the US and Chinese airlines are convincingly ahead of the US and Chinese airlines, which is quite logical, given the territorial space of these countries as well as their economic development. Delta Air Lines each individually transported over a hundred million passengers during that period. Exceptional dynamism in this area is seen in the application of the world market power ratios. In the last 15 years, many traditional, European and US air carriers have been building and gaining their name and place on the world market have faced serious problems above all, financial problems that some have failed to overcome, and new, significant players have emerged on the global market, mainly from countries such as the so-called. Third World, like Turkish Airlines, Qatar Airways, Etihad Arways. Let's say the Swiss national air carrier Sves er in 2002 ceased to exist as such. Air Italy faced with complete bankruptcy and danger that the Italian competent authority on the ground floor entered the minors with the same contractual relationship as our JAT with Etihad Arways who took possession of a 49% stake in the Italian national air carrier. In this context, it must be absolutely positive to assess the co-operation that the Republic of Serbia has achieved with the Arab partner when it comes to transforming our national air carrier and from a chronic loser has become a projected leader in this region. What is my first impression is the fact that the proposed solutions give extremely high authority to the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia as a body that is most rigorously and measured by nature to monitor and regulate certain operational issues of this area. For example, the amendment of Article 38 provides that the air traffic lines network is approved by the Directorate. In a current solution, this network is approved by the Ministry of Traffic, with the consent of the Ministry of Defence. As practice requires a much more operational solution, and the Directorate is certainly designated as a national air navigation supervisory authority, by approving air traffic route networks will represent its future competence. Also, the proposed changes and additions to significant emphasis are placed on increasing safety when the aviation service is in general, so the new Article 4a provides that all aircraft located in our airspace must without exception comply with the rules of flight. New Article 15a educates the National Air Safety Committee, as an occasional working body of the Government with the task of harmonising the functioning of bodies, organisations and aircraft entities responsible for aviation security and making recommendations on how to improve safety, which should certainly be welcomed as a good solution. On the same line and certainly a good solution that is of general benefit is the provision in the new Article 17a, which aims to ensure the protection of data collected by the directorate under the mandatory or voluntary reporting system of events. The intended solution is not punishment, but prevention to improve general aviation security. It is explicitly stated that employers are obliged to encourage their employees, that for the sake of general well-being, every event they consider to be a real or potential danger to the safety of the air force, and without fear that the team may suffer any adverse consequences from the employer himself. In Article 77, the general conditions laid down for the issue of an operational licence to air carriers are defined. In addition to other conditions, it is necessary that the company that wants to obtain an operating licence has its head office in the Republic of Serbia and is owned by the majority of the Republic of Serbia or the majority of our citizens, as well as under their real control either directly or indirectly. Also, the financial conditions for issuing an operational licence are detailed in line with the new international standards that provide for strict financial criteria to be met by air carriers carrying out public air transport. The reason for this is more than logical. The financial stability of the air carrier is directly proportional to security, which is the light motive of the proposed changes and additions. Such a solution in Article 80 contains the provisions of the mandatory verification of compliance with the conditions for issuing an operational authorisation. And here the directorate is the authority which is competent and obliged to check within a minimum period of 24 months whether the conditions still met are necessary for the issue of an operational permit, including, of course, financial conditions. Compared to the current text of the law, the novelty is the possibility that an airline with financial difficulties can issue a temporary operating licence in case it is estimated that within a certain period of up to 12 months, it can carry out a financial consolidation. The amendment of Article 91 for justified operational reasons makes it easier for a foreign air carrier to carry out international public air traffic with the Republic of Serbia. In order to carry out, for example, emergency medical transport, it will be sufficient for a foreign air carrier to obtain the approval of a directorate to be issued under an emergency procedure and only if the request applies to the operation of regular air traffic, the authorisation shall be issued after obtaining the opinion of the Ministry of Transport. A new and far more efficient solution is currently in Article 93 if the emission limit values of gases or noise are exceeded, the directorate is authorised to make a proposal to suspend or limit air transport, and the Ministry of Environment is authorised to restrict or suspend public air transport. Following a new proposal to suspend or limit air transport, the competent ministry shall provide when it finds out that there has been a breach of the limit values, and the directorate shall decide on that. I'd say the bill promoter is the most involved in changing the entire chapter of the law that regulates airports. There are a lot of newspapers compared to existing solutions, and I will say just one – the distribution of airports to civil, military and mixed, but the conditions for acquiring the properties of a mixed airport are more detailed. Also, depending on the purpose and characteristics of the airport itself, as well as the type of aircraft that can land at such an airport, there is a difference between airports which are issued a certification of airports which have to meet the strictest conditions, airports which are granted a licence for use, as well as airports which are granted consent for use. Those acts are defined to be issued indefinitely, but to carry out mandatory periodic checks. An obligation shall be made to notify the directorates and the competent flight controllers of changes to the airport's use interruption. Furthermore, specific conditions for planning, design and construction of airports are prescribed, as well as conditions for the maintenance of airports and airport services. The new solution is the obligation of the airport operator to set up a board of air carriers using airport services aimed at representing the interests of airport service users, while airport charges are regulated by Article 133. The airport operator's obligation is also introduced to respect the equivalency of airport users when determining the level of airport charges. A time limit shall be extended within which the airport operator informs airport users of the application of an increased fee and the possibility of the airport operator or airport user being contacted by the Directorate if they cannot reach an agreement on the proposed changes in airport charges. Those solutions should allow for further expansion of Belgrade's airport. The "Nikola Tesla" airport continued to record in this year, so only in the first three months of 2015 the number of passengers using its services was recorded, even 13% compared to the same period, otherwise the record previous calendar year. In other words, stock exchanges do not lie, and close to five million of our fellow citizens who have acquired a single airport action at the time know it well. Whoever bought Belgrade Airport's actions after going out on the market has made an incredible contribution of over 100%, as the value of the stock from the initial 600 dinars has reached a historic maximum of over 1400 dinars these days, while paying dividends to shareholders in the meantime. In accordance with its new powers and competences, the Directorate shall carry out periodic checks, whether the holder of an air-technical performance permit continues to meet the conditions for carrying out that activity, which is also a solution aimed at increasing the safety of air-traffic traffic. The amended Article 164 provides that the aircraft user is required to carry out the aircraft maintenance work provided for by its maintenance programme in order to remain on a continuous basis. Therefore, the works envisaged by the air maintenance programme are not only done when continuous navigation is interrupted, but are subject to their maintenance conditions. The amended Article 189 provides that the medical abilities of the air crew through medical examinations, assessment of health skills and certifications are determined by doctors and medical institutions who have a certificate of the right to examine health skills, which is certainly on the line of improvement of general safety. It is also a member of 199 relating to the working time of crew members. The restrictions relating to working time, flight time, rest and spare days of crew members in commercial flight are detailed. It shall also be authorised to adopt a regulation laying down closer working time, flight time, flight duty duration, rest and flight days. In the same sense, the new member of 199a. which regulates the working time of flight controllers, paid leave to maintain psycho-physical conditioning and the right of the directorate to prescribe the duration of the shift during the working day, the duration of continuous work and the length of the daily rest of the flight controllers. These provisions are extremely important from the aspect of flight safety, given the fact that being a flight controller is one of the most stressful interests in the world. Given the new security challenges facing global society today, and above all terrorist acts of various kinds, logical changes are made to the law in the security department. An obligation shall be imposed on a foreign air carrier carrying out with the Republic of Serbia a regular international air carrier or a series of charters of flights in international public air transport, to submit to the directorate its air security programme, as well as the approval of that programme issued by the competent authority of the air carrier State. It is also amended to Article 225 to Article 228 in order to prescribe the obligation of the airport operator to establish, in the light of the attached opinion of the Ministry of Security and the competent security services, a controlled and secured-restrictive zone, official passages and crossings with passengers and the like. It is prescribed that in the controlled zone of the airport and the secured-restrictive zone, a control of the access of the person and the vehicle is carried out and that the security inspection is carried out at the entrance or within this zone. It also determines who needs to be subject to a security review, but also the exceptions to the mandatory security review. At the same time, it is defined that in order to carry out access control and to review security, it is necessary to have a licence. So, a whole set of new solutions is focused primarily on raising the general level of safety in aviation, so I think it's very good that, in the process of drafting this law's proposal, they also contributed to the opinion of the Civil Aviation Directorate, the Control of Flights of Serbia-Montenegro, the Air Alliance of Serbia, the "Nikola Tesla", JAT Technika, JAT Business Aviation, as well as the union organisations of pilots and flight controllers. Also, I'd like to point out that I'm from the city of Somboro, which has one of the most famous military airports in our territory. Unfortunately, he has long lost his primary purpose, which is why he existed, but we are able to make him an airport for a different purpose, we see a huge chance for the development of our entire region, including the whole of Serbia, to become an alternative to the "Nikola Tesla" airport, and we ask the Minister to pay attention to my colleague's presentation on the subject of the sumbor airport right now in the later order of speakers. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill in a voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28341	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Katarina Rakic, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28342	The chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the area of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia has been regulated by the Law on Air Traffic, which was adopted in 2010 and in order to comply with European regulations, or EU regulations, we need to bring amendments and additions to this law today, and above all to ensure safety in air traffic. Although many competent institutions have said, that is, in their reports, that Serbia has preceded air traffic in previous years compared to other areas of society, I simply cannot remember now that our air traffic seemed to be up to two years ago. Like, I had a chance, or maybe it was just my personal attitude ever since, that when you landed at the Belgrade airport until two years ago, you just had the impression, or my personal impression was like that again, like you landed in a forgotten city. No planes, no people, no crowds. That impression was certainly higher if, say, you flew from Frankfurt or stayed in Frankfurt, at a big airport, so you had a chance to see a lot of planes, a lot of people, a lot of traffic, and then in just an hour and a half of the time of summer, land in Belgrade at an empty airport, no people, no traffic, no planes. I was wondering at the time – how could someone have destroyed such a strong airline as JAT Airways? How could someone destroy a strong institution like Belgrade Airport? Fortunately, however, this picture today looks quite different. I don't think fortunately it's the right expression. I think that happiness has been less involved than the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Ministers who, by smart policy and good policy, have led our air traffic in a good direction. I'll look back on the statistics, although you can certainly see for yourself what I'm talking about. You can go to the airport and see for yourself how crowded it is today and remember what you experienced there just two years ago. As I have already said, with the smart decision of the prime minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia, a new airline, national, was established, which in just a year and a half since its formation has become a leader in the region. I'll only give you some of the data that are truly indisputable. Er Serbia has managed to increase air traffic by 40% in just a year and a half since its founding. The total number of passengers in 2014 increased by 68% compared to 2013, which means that 2.3 million passengers were transported in 2014. Also, what's very interesting to mention is that last year's profits for Er Serbia amounted to 2.7 million and that profit, let's say, I can describe to you this way, is 30% more profit than, say, Adria Airways and Crocija Airlines combined. So, just a year and a half, they managed to make a greater profit by 30% of the two regional companies together. Also, what Er Serbia has managed to do in just a year and a half since its formation is to increase the number of destinations where it flies, where it has direct flights. I'll tell you, for example, that JAT Airways had 27 direct flights, Er Serbia in just a year and a half has already had 40 direct flights, and also, since the Federal Air Administration of the United States has assigned a category of one to our air force, conditions have been created to provide a direct flight to the United States, for which an agreement was already signed on May 15th. What I would stress as far as Er Serbia is concerned is that Er Serbia currently has the largest fleet in, say, the past ten years, has 23 planes. Certainly something very important is that due to the increased volume of work, Er Serbia has employed 400 new workers over the past year. In addition to Er Serbia, I can freely say that an extremely good result has been presented by Belgrade Airport. The increase in passenger traffic was 31%, which is the largest increase of all airports in Europe, as my SPS colleague already mentioned. In 2014, there were 4.6 million passengers. Also, the profit of "Nikola Tesla" airport in the first quarter of this year is four times higher than last year. Also, how well Nikola Tesla airport is doing is saying that the "Nikola Tesla" Airport's actions have increased by only 220 times in just a year. Also, besides Er Serbia and Nikola Tesla Airport, I must certainly mention the successes achieved by JAT techniques and SMATSA, which certainly had to support progress, more specifically, had to send Belgrade and Er Serbia's airport into their work. From everything I've stated, it's the fact that this area, which has taken one quick step, we have to solve it systematically. The law that is before us today, which was proposed by the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, certainly represents one document that will create an environment for our air force to join European and world standards, which are in line with the highest European and world standards in air traffic. The law also opens up the possibility of a lot of sublegal acts, which will certainly contribute to better implementation of the law. As my colleagues have already said, this law brings changes to the airport, and besides the airports that have listed my colleagues in the Kingdom, which are being converted to transfer from military airport to public transport airport, of course, mentioning that there are two airports in Serbia for public international transport, of course, Nicola Tesla Airport and Constantin Great Airport in Nis. In addition, there are 18 other special airports used for sports and amateur flying. Also, there are 20 to 30 airports across Serbia that provide services in agriculture and forestry. The number of these airports shall be changed for reasons of their registration as necessary. The amendments and additions adopted by this law certainly make it easier to issue these permits and various consents. Of course, one of the important changes that this law brings is the formation of a Security Committee. The proposal to amend and supplement the laws that are before us today has also been considered and positively assessed by the European Commission, and we certainly need to bear in mind that all these changes that we are making today will lead to the improvement of the civil aviation system in Serbia, and in line with all the international standards that we have committed ourselves to. From all of this, it is necessary that all of these change and supplement as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28343	Thank you, colleague Rakic. We are now moving on to a call in accordance with the order of the Members of the People's Parliaments to apply for a word in principle for a review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28344	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is one of the most extensive laws recently reached the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Eighty members of the proposal for this law are editing more than 200 members, and it speaks enough about its comprehensiveness and analysis and I therefore believe that it is necessary to point out certain segments and, of course, give full support in the proposal for this law. The draft air traffic law, which we are discussing today, is, in fact, continuing to comply with EU legislation, which was launched by the adoption of the 2010 Air Traffic Act, and now we are just continuing the process, which is a key priority in joining the EU. Certainly, this law is a good basis for successfully joining European and global aviation integration processes, as well as for introducing and applying international aviation regulations, standards, technical rules and acceptance of international aviation practices, as guarantees for achieving the highest standards of air safety and safety in Serbia, which, given the importance of air safety, is very important. This law elaborates the security of civil aviation, and in particular the establishment of a National Civil Aviation Safety Committee that monitors and implements preventive measures established by the national safety programme. However, a significant amendment provided for by this law, which simply has to be mentioned, is provided for in Article 67 amending Article 237, which refers to the delegation of power from the Management Board to the Director of the Directorate. The proposal for this law provides that the adoption of sub-legislative regulations and acts from the Management Board should be transferred to the Director of the Directorate. This is no longer done by the Management Board, as has been the case so far, and this will, of course, contribute to greater efficiency in the adoption of regulations, but should pay attention to the quality of these acts and should be paid attention, of course, to the expertise of the Director of the Directorate, because, in addition to the powers of the Director of the Directorate, more obligations are also passed on, and therefore, we are obliged to take care of whether the Director of the Directorate will now be able, as an in-house body, to comply with the full extent and scope of the tasks imposed on him by this draft law. I must also point out that it is very important for Serbia to sign an agreement with America. We long ago have the desire and the need to have this air link between Belgrade and America. But we didn't have technical options, more specifically, we didn't have planes for that kind of thing. Now it's possible to change that. "Er Serbia" is part of a major alliance gathered around Ethyhad. The airlines in Europe are registering the growth of demand of almost 6% of which is the highest demand precisely for flights across the ocean, so I hope that "Er Serbia" will have a motive, and that our country will have a realistic chance of restoring flights to America after more than 20 years. Of course, this will, in large part, contribute to the adoption of this, in addition to the agreement with America, to the modern Air Traffic Act. Also, a significant change in the current law applies to a member who determines that members of the Management Board will be experts in the future, not ministers like we, Madam Minister, and we expect that this will indeed be so and that there will be expert people sitting on the Board of Directors who will contribute with their knowledge to further improving air traffic in Serbia. Of course, criteria need to be developed. What does that mean, professional faces? The Minister in charge, which is now you, who will appoint those persons, bear the greatest responsibility, because it is the Governing Board that will be the authority that will manage the entire civil aviation and all resources. The question of which many citizens in Serbia are interested is what will have the consequences, I mean the positive consequences, of adopting the bill at other airports in Serbia, given the importance that these airports operate? It is also important for the economy, both for tourism and for the service of the needs of our citizens, and since the proposal for this law provides for the integration of all airports in Serbia which we really support and what we think is a good idea and in the earlier period has been discussed many times. It is good that this bill continues to take care of the security segment, which concerns environmental protection. It is foreseen that the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks is proposing to the Directorate to suspend public line traffic for a certain period of time, if it determines, for example, that the allowed level of noise or degree of pollution has been exceeded. The air traffic is really arranged and you said it well, Minister, and we agree that it's something we should be proud of. This is the kind of transport in which Serbia has farthest distanced when it comes to the compliance of domestic legislation with EU rules, and by adopting this Air Traffic Act, Serbia will get an even more complete legal framework that will contribute to greater efficiency, greater security, greater air traffic security, and with the protection and control of airspace. As our authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Stefana Miladanovic said, our parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28345	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28346	Thank you very much and thank you for supporting the amendments and additions to this law. Only one small suggestion, or clarification, is that the Management Board transfers its powers to the Director of the Directorate. What is very important, the Directorate is indeed becoming an independent regulatory body. What will be an advantage, and in terms of increasing efficiency, is that at the monthly level it will be able to comply with all the regulations, rules and all the directives that will take place in the future, which is very important for this area. As for the experts who will be members of the Management Board, I think it's one of the great things that we've put into these amendments and additions to the law. We will make the criteria in line with some of the existing public agencies laws, but they must be people from the profession and people who know their jobs, with experience, because this is an area that looks for such people. Of course, I'm not saying that there are no ministers who understand themselves well in this area, but it's certainly much better that they are dedicated members of the board of directors who will be able to devote their time to this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28347	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, respected guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow citizens, we have been discussing the Air Traffic Act for four hours today. Actually, a little bit less, since we've been on the agenda a little bit longer. What we need to say at the outset is that we are talking about a law that was passed in October 2010, which was further changed in July 2011 and brought into line with international air regulations and standards. However, in the past five years, as we have witnessed, there have been major changes in practice and it has shown that it is necessary to re-change the law in order to bring it into line with international regulation and to be in the spirit of the time in which it is applied. The largest number of amendments proposed in this law is justified in my opinion and they are perfected and completed by existing legal solutions or introduced by some new formulations. However, I consider that with consultation, which is to say, with consultation with the people of the profession that a significant number of completely unnecessary changes has been proposed, which is why... . Excessive and detailed. In fact, some amendments provide for a large number of technical and close professional details of the opinion are attributed to this law, but are already regulated throughout the world under the regulations. rules and procedures. The largest number of unnecessary changes introduced in the legal text are professional and technical details in the area of the airport and in the area of air personnel. Since the observations apply only to the overly detailed ones, I would not now talk about them, but I will point out what our objections are and where I think it is unnecessary to clarify certain concepts. So first we resent your definition and classification of so-called. the rolling paths at the airports. It is all but legal matter, and it is already very precisely prescribed by the rules of the Directorate. Furthermore, I resent the listing, which all falls under ground-service services at airports. It has also been precisely defined in these documents and rules of the Directorate. The determination of working time and paid leave for pilots and flight controllers is a matter which is equally processed by the rules of the Directorate is quite delicate and is very lively matter, because it is subject to constant changes and I think leaving these definitions in this law would only complicate future law enforcement and about any changes we would have to lead the whole procedure between laws. But what I want to say a few words about, and what we and the amendment tried to change, is, say, Article 3. A bill where a category of drones is introduced which is good and necessary to be in this law. It is also correctly established that more detailed conditions for the use of unmanned aircraft are prescribed by the Directorate and that is fine, but above all, in paragraph 2, it is prescribed that the launch of unmanned aircraft requires prior consent of flight control. I don't think that's clearly worked out enough, because this solution isn't accurate, so even without the precise qualifications of the aircraft and it's completely absurd as the people of the profession say, because in practice it means that neither the model of the helicopter sold in any mall can be launched without prior consent to flight control. I know the legislator didn't mean it, he didn't have this in mind, but that's how it comes from a member of the law I was talking about. Next, in Article 5. The bill envisions the establishment of a national air security committee as well as the occasional working body of the government. Today, this working body exists in practice, but it is not foreseen by the law which I think is a better solution, because the introduction into the law of such a working body without very precisely defined powers and competence can lead to the overlap of jurisdiction with some of the other aircraft entities, so that the bill also provides that this body, as you say, coordinates the operation of aircraft entities from which it could be interpreted and has an impact on the independence and independence of the aviation authorities. Furthermore, in Article 68. The proposal for this law concerning members of the Management Board shall apply to members of the Management Board of the Directorate. So far they are members of the Board of Directors. So far, members of the Management Board, as you well know, have been acting as Ministers of Transport, Defence, Home Affairs, Finance and Environmental Protection. With this legal solution, you have suggested that... Just a minute. You have made changes, because this name proposed members of the board of directors in practice was very difficult to function because it was a problem to gather ministers and agree their terms and free time to meet this body. What we have proposed, we have proposed to you that the board of directors have five members representing, as a function, certain state secretaries from the Ministry of Transport, Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Affairs. I think it's much better to have this defined board of directors of this body, because the government would be constantly in contact with problems, i.e. the ministries through these state secretaries, would be under way with a problem that's being solved on this body and could control and implement its policy. Article 3rd paragraph 38 requires that the aircraft operator, it is also our objection, where we have acted by amendment, any legal or natural person who uses or intends to use one or more aircrafts, this is a quote from the law, this finding is legally and logically unacceptable, because we believe that the intention of using in no way can qualify as a relevant fact for obtaining operator status. Plastic to explain, it's not enough that someone wants to or intends to use an aircraft, but it has to be realistic in order to gain the status of an aircraft operator. We therefore believe that it is necessary to accept our amendment that you will have the opportunity to see the day after tomorrow. The day we discuss in detail. What I wanted to comment on with you since I was born Nishli, here I am a representative of the Nish citizens, is Konstantin the Great Airport. What's good and what's done well by the ministry, it's an agreement for "Viz Erom" to fly from Nis. What's problematic is not meeting the obligations of the contract. I'll point out that you're still bound by the contract, e.g. To work out a restaurant at the airport, it hasn't come to life yet. You could be interested in the minister's positions, which is why there is no other failure to fulfil the obligations of the contract. Introduction of ILS, a device that allows for the instrument landing of aircraft. The problem is, at least I have knowledge, it didn't go into your ministry's budget this year, and there's an obligation to implement it. Most likely that part of the contract will be completed next year. Only if that's what you plan to do when there's a rebalancing, I get us in June or July of the month. I mean the Republic rebalancing. I have one more question, the following website can be seen what business was like. I'm talking about JAT and Er Serbia, what business it has been since 2004-2012. In 2004, we have minus the 15m-euro JAT, then in 2005, minus 22.9m euros, then in 2006, minus 14.9m euros, then in 2007, we have a negative of 9.2m euros, then in 2008, we have a minus 29.5m euros, then in 2009, minus 23.2m euros, then in 2010, 21.1m euros, then in 2011 minus 32.6m euros, then in 2012, minus 34.6m euros, and in 2014, we have only a report from Er Serbia that it was operating with a profit of 2.7m euros. My question to you -- is it true that that year, Belgrade Airport wrote off a 17m-euro debt to Er Serbia? Is it true that the oil industry is Serbia and the AKL, it is the Flight Control Agency, for it you well know that part of the charge goes through Brussels and part is paid to the agency itself, also written off a debt of around 17m euros? That would be my question to you, and we'll discuss the rest when we discuss the amendments, in the discussion of details. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28349	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28350	You've mentioned a lot, and I'm sure when we talk about the amendments, we'll also talk more specifically, but just a few things that I think are important. When you talk about the great detail of the law, first of all, let's know that the changes and additions of this law have been done by people of the profession and that's what I particularly advocate, which is that people who know their jobs work on these things and that we have really one quality change and addition of the law. It was simply necessary to have certain details. Not to mention that we are likely to regulate through this law the issue of charters that are so talked about, because it has never been regulated in the right way. So, we want to have a detailed law, so it doesn't happen to be any misunderstandings, when we talk about air traffic and air policy. When you mentioned this board of directors, it's something that's interesting, because I find it quite interesting that you're proposing State Secretary, too, there are two things. First of all, State Secretarys can't be members of the board of directors. But there's one more thing that's more important to me. We've suggested that the waist be on the board of directors. The Secretary of State is coming and going with the ministers. I don't want to comment on whether they're political or not, but the fact is, we can't always rely on all the State Secretarys, that they can be board members. If we let the most professional people in this very specific area really be board members, then I'm sure we'll get much more quality than we've had so far and we'll be even better at it. So we were just a lot more open here than you suggest. To be perfectly honest, the minister or secretary of state is primarily a member of the government and a political figure. We don't need political stability in air traffic. It goes according to its rules, standards, we have an independent regulatory body, we need a profession that will be on the board of directors and really help with its proposals to make decisions better. The aircraft operator you mentioned is the definition that has been taken over from the European Commission Regulation 216. And once again, the definitions are not Serbian definitions, these are definitions that apply all over the world, not only in Serbia and the EU, but in any part of the world are the same, so they are now the same in Serbia. The operational landing of the plane, you say it's not in our budget, it's in the budget of the Flight Control Agency, so, and how it's going to be done, we'll have that, and thank you for commending the commercial contract that was made at the airport in Nis. That's where I'd be. If I happen to miss something, we'll talk about it at the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28351	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28352	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard more than once today that air traffic is indeed the type of traffic that has reached the highest level, when it comes to compliance with EU regulations and, as the honourable minister said, as regards air traffic and its rules, we are already in the EU. There are constant changes in the air – changes in the improvement of technique, changes in the handling of goods and passengers, changes in treatment or working with dangerous substances, therefore very frequent and necessary changes in the law. The main reason for amending and supplementing this law is, above all, to comply with the standards and practices of international or civil aviation, to comply with EU regulations, to remove the observed problems that the 2010 Law had and to eliminate these problems with new provisions and to edit certain areas more in detail. Someone criticises what is so detailed, and I would agree that this detail is necessary, precisely because the sublegal act will be taken over by the Directorate on its own, and this will be clear frameworks for the sublegal act. If we consider the previous two weeks that we have adopted two air traffic agreements, with the United Arab Emirates and with China, then we can definitely say that this is an extremely important area in our country. These changes will ensure both efficiency and greater safety of air traffic. Greater efficiency will definitely be contributed to exactly what we said, that the adoption of sublegal acts will be brought down to the Civil Aviation Directorate, i.e. in terms of regulation, the recognition of certificates, the adoption of certain provisions of restrictions. In order to increase security, two new institutes are set up – the National Committee for Safety and the National Aviation Safety Programme. Therefore, stricter flight rules have been defined and preventive measures have been stepped up to report irregularities and protect those reporting these irregularities. Also, better conditions will be provided for people with disabilities and will be taken into account, what is very important, and on environmental protection, in such a way that if there is an overrun, if emission limit values, harmful gases or noise are exceeded, the competent ministry will warn and make a proposal, and the Directorate will decide to limit that flight. The law is now clear, clearly defined. So, sublegal acts are down to the level of the Directorate, and particularly significant changes are related to airports. They are particularly important to us, who are important to these changes, because there are airports in our cities that should be revived. So it's about changes to airports, which are about to help open these new airports and form a future public enterprise, "Serbia Airport". The future company "Serbia Airports" should unite all these airports and equally manage their infrastructure and their services. This government and the ministry definitely proved to be good managers in this area. All praise for that. "Er Serbia" we have heard about so far is definitely a confirmation of that success. In that sense, we Užičana are also interested in whether our Ponika Airport will be part of this public company, "Serbia Airport"? This is an airport that used to be for military purposes. It was transferred in 2011 to the property of the town of Užica. In October, the exact 5th October opened for civilian flights. It's only 18 kilometers from Užica. True, the infrastructure to our airport isn't exactly the most favourable, but if he came back to life, we'd probably be working that way. So 25 kilometers from Zlatibor, 14 kilometers from Tara, is exactly what shows the significance of this airport. The area is large, 565 hectares. The runway is 3,100 meters long, 45 meters wide. Unfortunately, today is not used in this length. After the bombing, only about 2,212m and 30m wide were reconstructed, and it is very characteristic because of its altitude of 900m above sea level. Some argue, some say it's convenient. Of course, the waist says the last word. In 2013 demining was carried out on the surface around the runway, i.e. about the runway in the area of about 1.2 square meters. Also, a few days ago, perhaps a month ago, there was a plan of general regulation that should be adopted by the town of Užica and by the municipality of Bajin Basta because this complex extends to these two, that is, cities and municipalities and that should be adopted in the next period so that regular permits can be issued. Also, great support for the opening and so far has been given by the Civil Aviation Directorate of our Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, only smaller planes with 10 to 12 seats can land at the airport right now. The technical airport can accept bigger planes, but we don't have the equipment to receive goods and passengers, and that's what we should go on, but that's definitely where the town of Uzice can't go alone. So we're hoping for this establishment of a public enterprise because then we're safe in your hands and that's the only chance we have. I would just like to say that certain funds were received during 2014 and 2015. He received this airport certain donations in terms of landing and visibility systems at night, donation of the “Nikola Tesla” Airport and I thank you on behalf of the town of Užica for this, a fence of two and a half kilometers, a delivery vehicle, a radio station, two computers with complete equipment. Then, a donation from the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia in a monetary amount of 8.8m dinars, which was to be used and used for the development of the main project, for testing the capacity of the runway and for, of course, training and training of employees. The airport complex is divided into two zones, and that would be the last thing I'd like to point out. The real area is directly connected to the runway and air traffic. It's 200 to 250 hectares, and it's supposed to put in a protective fence, resuscitating the remaining 800 meters of runway so that bigger planes can land and create a passenger terminal. In that sense, investors tomorrow may find it interesting to invest and manage this part of the airport, and perhaps this second part would be more interesting. That's the rest where you can offer investment to investors. It is 300 to 350 hectares of surface area not directly related to air traffic, but can provide other programs that could contribute to the development of this air traffic. For example, it would be investment in industry, which relies on air traffic. As we mentioned, we heard that there was a possibility of opening up a factory of parts for airplanes. Here, this space could be directly next to the runway to open such a single facility, or drive. Then, investing in some new tourist content, some new opening of tourist complexes, golf courses, car races. That hasn't come to life with us yet. So it could be like potential. Of course, and the development of tourism in this region, as I have already mentioned close centres Zlatibor, Tara, Mokra Gora and everything else. What I'd like to say is, in addition to tourism development, we can definitely get agricultural development with this airport, because we're big producers of raspberries and potatoes, so in that sense air traffic could contribute to faster transport of these products. We are sure that the government and this ministry in charge will not miss the chance to invest in these small airports, because it has definitely proved that every invested dinar in such an investment is repeatedly returning, because Serbia is definitely an example of this. I thank you very much for everything you have done for the city of Užice and for our "Ponikas" and great support for the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28353	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28354	Thank you for everything you've said. What can I say about the "Ponika", you've explained everything. But what's important is, it's exactly what you said, "Ponikve" got a certain donation from the Directorate just to train the staff, to increase the level of security, which is very important for the future. What's the current problem, when we talk about the Ponikvas, is access to traffic. It's important for every airport, even that one. That's what we should be working on. You mentioned, of course, two municipalities that are competent, by being the coordinator and the main municipality, or the city that will work on it, above all, Užice. What's more important is that Uzice, or that Ponikve Airport, will certainly be part of Serbia's Business Society, and that will enable it. And why are we doing all this? Just to try to develop as much tourism as possible. So thank you for noticing and for talking about it, and these amendments and additions of the law are just about to help us make small airports, at less cost, work. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28355	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Prime Minister, dear colleagues, the law we are discussing today is a law largely relying on EU regulations and is part of our overall legal alignment with EU law. It also represents a civilizational, legal and social step that our Republic is taking in our EU integration process in some future. In any case, that part and that segment relating to the professional processing of this bill that we have looked at has really been done in a good way, because it is seen that the people of the profession have really written and, again, there are a number of provisions that very detailedly regulate this area. Of course there are certain, in our opinion, shortcomings that I will try to point out briefly. The first drawback, according to us, is that we essentially adopt many laws that are in line with EU fluids, and in practice are not applied. We have never had a comprehensive government report so far to hear the process go to the Republic of Serbia. Also, what we immediately noticed, and other colleagues also said, that these criminal provisions in the law itself are very small, often offensive and I would say completely unrealistic, especially for people who are air carriers. So, such small criminal provisions and these fines of several tens of thousands of dinars, I hope, the minister, that you agree, are really inadequate. Even from what I've heard, some people are kidding around here, and what has to do with your portfolio, although I don't think you're directly responsible for all of this, immediately to fence up, that our tracks and roads are so bad, that we're left with nothing but air traffic. In order to get to that air traffic, we must say something about our airports, which so far some colleagues here have been very inspired to say, of course, in the form of future and form – we will do, we will be done, we will finish, which is my proposal to enter as a constitutional provision into future changes to the Constitution, regarding your authority, because other than the sentences that begin with: "we will do", "we will do", "we will finish", you have no other results, unfortunately Serbian citizens, you have no. So, all this talk and praises about "Er Serbia", which has increased the number of passengers, has increased the number of destinations and is a successful business company, these are facts, I put it aside and it will not be the subject of my criticism, but it will certainly be the subject of criticism that we have three potential airports in central Serbia besides Belgrade, which are essentially none of them in office. None of them performs their duties as originally planned. Some of these projects began long ago, in the 1990s, in the 1980s, and some started in 2008/2009. the year, such as “Ponikava” Airport, i.e. We need to be precise. But there's still nothing going on. I don't think it's correct to say that you started this project, so you're going to finish it. Again, that futur – you will end it. However, in these three years, as far as you're concerned, there's little that's been done. Moreover, many of these projects have been stopped. For some of those airports, the donations we received were returned. So that's true. As for "Er Serbia", this is a special story that one day will be dealt with in the future, when all the contracts are revealed that you have concluded as a government, when you see what lies behind that beautiful blanket called a roof agreement with the United Arab Emirates. What is already known is that "Er Serbia" does not pay in full neither airport fees nor fuel, that they have fully subsidized prices at 50%, that they are therefore favoured on the market and that is why they are making their income. It is also one of the very important reasons that Serbian citizens paid JAT's debts and that we cover each year for budget cuts what they make in a negative balance. That's the facts. Whoever's to blame, why is that, will one day be seen. So before you start talking about thousands of passengers, answer this. Not you personally, Minister, but these, I don't know if they're on your side or not, it's not clear now. What intrigued me very much at the beginning of Article 4, I must say, can even be said in a semi-serious form. Therefore, Article 4 states - the name of the member and Article 13 is changed and reads as follows: “No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are restricted flight zones and, respected citizens and respected MPs, I think it would be correct for things to be defined a little bit more in a part of the Republic of Serbia that refers to a part of the Forest called Bajcetina. So, I think you had to have the president here a little bit more detail about the forbidden or dangerous flight zones, and we know that Bajcetina did. You could have legally set it up more precisely now, not decided by the Directorate and the other bodies. Article 133. - airport charges have been released from domestic and state aircraft on special purposes flights and the airport operator determines the level of airport compensation in a way that will not be discriminated against by individual airport users. I purposely read Article 133 as a written confirmation of what we unfortunately do not have in practice, just as regards "Er Serbia" as a carrier. On the subject of "Visers", we know how it ended. That former director made a deal with them. Minister, I think that's exactly what one of my colleagues told you about, I'm not going to repeat myself. The man gave the opportunity to cut the cabs and the man went to jail, and here you can see he can. It's inconsistency, number 28. Article 53 and Article 189 shall be amended and read as follows: the medical ability of the air crew referred to in Article 188(1) shall be determined by the medical examinations carried out by doctors from the medical institution, that is, the authorised doctors and the authorised medical institutions shall carry out medical examinations, the assessment of health skills and the issue of medical assurances under the conditions prescribed by the Directorate. Now, knowing that we have and that we have had a recent accident, not us, but the whole world of the Alps at all, and that this man did not have adequate health assurance, that is. that he has brought some confidence and that the whole of Europe now through its regulation makes it clear, I am not going to say sharper, but rather precise, I think maybe in Article 53 of this proposal it was necessary to place the minister that the directorate does not have the right to go through its own regulations, or, in any case, determines that thing, rather than to write in a law which, in particular, in a medical examination must be passed within the healthcare institution. That's a suggestion. You don't have to agree. This formulation as it stands is fine by me, I just think it should be complemented and say – what in the approved health care facility, the Health Air Center of persons on the subject, therefore, staff members will have to complete as a review in a positive way. The deadlines exist, everything exists, and I don't mind, I just don't think I'm going to use the word trend, but in the shadow of recent terrible events in the sky above Europe, I think this thing would be very useful. Now, what I also don't like, it's to act on a request for second-degree medical examination is to pay a tax to the directorate. I think it's unnecessary, I don't understand why you have to pay a tax to the directorate who, by the way, makes good money. That's what the citizens know, if nothing on the salaries of the people who are there. Article 199a - duration of shift during the working day, duration of continuous work and length of daily rest of flight controllers is determined by the rules of the Directorate. I also understand everything, I understand what practice it has been so far, but that's why I think it should have been precise in the legal text itself. It's about that. Of course, I won't usurp time anymore. I will ask the Minister if he can answer some of these questions and the proposals we have made in this regard, of course, with a desire for Serbia to be, not only a regional leader in the transport of goods and passengers, that Serbia be not only a regional one, but a European leader in aviation, and that through this bill, Serbia tries to avoid a situation that is imposed through the text of the law, I fear, which is that the burden, i.e. the luggage of transit passengers in a weaker way controls, as is now predicted, compared to what was before. I may be a layman, not perhaps, but I am, but I think it would be correct to explain it, because this goes directly to the hand of Etihada, i.e. To them, because they want through Surcin, as they do, to wave transit traffic for airports in Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28357	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28358	A few things that I don't think my colleagues have been well informed of since you weren't there when we talked about it and when we discussed it. First of all, when we talk about the application of the law and when we talk about the inspections and the way the law is applied, I have to admit, and I repeat again, if one inspection is doing its job well and if it is highly trained and professional, it is exactly an inspection of the Civil Aviation Directorate. In that sense, we could not even have everything we have in terms of the various confirmations of all European institutions that we do not have such an inspectorate, so be sure. We couldn't get either category 1 and have such a level of security and now we're talking about direct flights to the United States that we don't have such an inspectorate in the Directorate. I have to reassure you, it's one area that's really good in that sense arranged. What I would especially like to point out here, you said the projects stopped and you said those airports didn't work and you said we stopped some things, and I think it's just different. Many more ministers in the previous period and during your governments took pictures at various airports and talked about how planes would fly there, and then the cities subsidized such opportunities, so no one wanted to conclude certain contracts, and I am now informing you that last year's government, firstly, allowed the first commercial contract to be concluded in Nis, to point out commercially, because it is very important, therefore, there is no grant of the city of Nis for such a thing. The second thing is also important, when we talk about the future civil-military airport Morava, I repeat again, a lot of reverse things happened at the airport, instead of working the runway first, they were doing the terminal. I'm talking about a magnificent building that still doesn't work today. We will bring him in and put him in order, we will have a civil-military airport that will have a purpose and that will function, unlike the previous period. This also applies to Užice and "Ponics". So we invest in both one and the other and the third smaller airport precisely with the aim of developing them, not just for tourism, but to develop them in freight transport. We also mentioned reliefs, we talked about it, I'll tell you one more time. Since you are constantly making this parallel between the director of the Airport, who is under investigation, and who is responsible for giving certain reliefs to the "Viser", also to inform you that he was the first time in history to introduce the Airport into a loss, that he also drove out Er France, and the Britisherwayz, who was in the mood at that time, and when we talk about "Er Serbia" then we need to know that this was done on the basis of a decision by the Government of Serbia, so on the basis of the document on the development of the aviation market through the stimulation in the payment of airport fees. You don't do anything by heart and you don't do anything secret, you do it exactly like that, so everyone just sees it and everybody knows it. When you mentioned health checks, I understand why you say that exactly because of what happened, as you say, in the European sky, but we cannot put it that way in law compared to European rules. What can we do? Through a sublegal act, which we will do, we will regulate it much more harshly than it is in the law itself. There's another thing, there's a difference, let's say "Er Serbia" is currently in its operating menu that two people have to attend the cabin, unlike a German company that didn't have one such obligation. It is our goal that the law enables us to have a higher level of security, because it is, after all, the most important thing. Also, you mentioned a tax. The tax is paid to the second-degree board directorate, because it's named, I'm reading now, we've got this now, experts in the field of medicine that aren't from the Directorate and that have certain costs. That's why you pay the tax. For now, I'd stop there, I believe there will be additional questions, so I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28359	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, and let MP Balsa Bozovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28360	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to believe that my esteemed predecessor may have tried to make a joke, even though it was a little small, about that safety of the President of the Republic or something. You know, if we were to apply the tenth part of the security measures, for example. by the presidents of a much stronger power, you would accuse us here of dictatorship. There was a great show on "Discovery" about what security is like for the president of the United States or France, especially when they fly somewhere, and what their planes are like, or when they're staying somewhere, what's happening in their environment, what's forbidden, I don't think you could last five minutes there, because you wouldn't even have a cell phone, you wouldn't have absolutely anything. So, I believe you were underprivileged when you said something about some flying over, but well, we're not going to talk about it right now. I want to talk about serious things, since you said our roads and railways are so bad, we have to use air traffic. I believe it was a joke. I agree with you in that segment that our roads and railways are very bad, you left us with what you left us, although for our roads, roadside particularly, we were given abnormal money from the EU, from various donations. Unfortunately, that money has disappeared somewhere, and our paths have been destroyed and completely destroyed, and everyone is avoiding us, unfortunately, orbiting Serbia. I believe this government is going to fix it and it's already working on it. Finally, we can see in many corridors that something is going on somewhere, unlike one of your periods when, say, you've known two, three miles of time that you're asphalting and there's one 50 times you cut the tape. However, what is very important for air traffic, I believe that this law has been passed, let's say that there is such a "JAT Airways", I believe that we couldn't do it at all, because the same "JAT Airways" that you left us would simply be unable to implement this, couldn't all these measures that are required here in the law itself be able to implement it. Now, since we are constantly listening to criticism on behalf of Er Serbia, I advise all of you who criticise it, don't fly Air Serbia or take another company, or take a nice car, take a bus, walk, however you like, but don't use Er Serbia, because you don't like it. Try some other means of transport because one of your more serious criticisms, which is one of your bots, as you like to call it from social networks that falsely represented for years that is a political analyst, is now with you in the party, he had one serious objection to Er Serbia, by saying that it makes no sense that she gives two sandwiches for a meal, and Luft hanza gives one. That was your serious objection, right, to Er Serbia. We are pleased, above all, that because of this Er Serbia we have increased tourism, among other things, arrangements and capacities here in Serbia, finally in Belgrade about 600,000 people come to Belgrade annually. It's got to increase, it's not enough. In your time there were about 200-300 thousand people, 600,000 people today come and visit Belgrade, because we have some direct flights. At that airport, four million and three hundred thousand people pass each year. I hope it gets bigger, so it gets to about six or seven million. I am extremely happy that we deleted competition in the region, because both Croatia and all other countries and Sarajevo are particularly complaining because Er Serbia is taking their clients. Well, I'm very happy that we're leaders in the region after that. If your JAT Airways, as you normally gave us here, we would have lost, we would have poured money absolutely into the well without a bottom, because you didn't have any desire to improve it. Now, I'm sorry, we have a company that works and will, of course, pay off for years and is already paying off and finally doing a positive business. I don't know what's bothering you. After all, take a look at the service in Er Serbia today and compare it with JAT Airways. People are fighting today because it's competition on the market, fighting to earn their jobs, after all. I can't understand such a destructive approach. Whatever someone's trying to do better, it's no good for you. Tell me what's wrong. Is that the JAT Airways thing? Why didn't you advance something? Why didn't you do better? You've had your chance for so many years, you've ruined that company. Our fleet was completely destroyed. I really don't understand how much more of this destructive approach, with all the understanding that maybe, let's say, I don't know, you didn't find anything transparent, although you were absolutely given an insight. But, once in a while, people, focus on the progress of this country, not constantly going back to some destruction and that whatever we have is something innovative and that commends the whole world, it's no good for you. I would really ask, and I believe, here, we have finally heard that you will vote for this law, I hope you will not change your mind because you, I see and on Twitter, are arguing whether milk imports should be banned or imports of milk should be allowed. You've got all the social network officials fighting. However, I hope that you will not change your mind until the end of the vote, that you will support something that the EU itself has said is indeed something that is good and I believe that, as a Parliament, we will unanimously adopt such a law that can only advance our air traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28361	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica, I was mentioned. Mr. Stefanovic, what makes you think you're right? Are you mentioned? I haven't heard you mention it in any way, nor was the DS mentioned. The condition for getting a replica, Mr. Stefanovic, you know very well. You know the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28362	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear minister, dear guests and respected citizens, no one's talking about not loving Er Serbia. Personally, I would be very proud if Er Serbia had very good results. I think we all care about what happens. There's no question that JAT used to do bad business. The dispute is that today, Er Serbia is not doing as well as you say. It is not our fault, Er Serbia, as much as anyone is trying to spin one such thing, but it is our fault that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who wastes the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia irrationally and touches a private airline. What's also very important to us is that they save themselves from reduced salaries and pensions actually being poured into one airline to show how much this airline has a positive business balance, but of course it's getting harder and harder for you to understand, and those explanations are not citizens to understand. When it comes to this law, he has good and bad sides. The biggest problem, in our deep conviction, is that it is inapplicable, as well as many other laws adopted by this National Assembly. What's very symptomatic is that no new law was written, but the old law was made up and we were trying to clearly fix something that wasn't in practice feasible. What's also noticeable is that sublegal acts have become laws. What's also noticeable is that some things are arranged in a very bad way, like. The Management Board of the Directorate, where members, e.g. they may be SNS officials or activists, where no expert frame is required. What's also bad is criminal policy. When it comes to security and private jets flying over cities, schools and kindergartens, as Mr. Veselinovic said, they are being punished with only 25 to 100,000 dinars of fines. So, someone with a private plane, it's more than a funny number when it comes to this punishment, and on the other hand, we haven't done anything to make the criminal policy really harsh and thus prevent any god of accident. Is it possible to create a monopoly through this law? It is also a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Many of the laws that we have passed in this Assembly have also helped someone when it comes to "Belgrade on Water" and when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, when the promised conversion did not come on March 1st, such as the minister who today explained this law and promised to the citizens. Is the law written on the basis of Ethyhad's suggestion? And that's also bad. The laws are written on the basis of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, not some foreign private companies. In Serbia, formerly, the directors of the Yugoslav airport were arrested, as JAT was then called, for discounts that were given to airlines for an airport tax of 20%. Today, Serbia gives a 50% discount on airport fees, and someone calls it a success in the balance sheet. Security is also not according to EU standards, which is also another problem that we will try to remove from the amendments. Er Serbia, today we have had the opportunity to hear from MPs who support this law, there are two planes per million inhabitants, that the EU average is 13 aircraft per million inhabitants. So we didn't get what we expected, which is that in every way possible competitiveness, even in the region, is much greater and much better than it is today. I would like Er Serbia to be the biggest firm not in the region, but much wider and that we really have something to be proud of, but the figures themselves deny us. You were saying that JAT, for example, was not profitable and that he could not stand the competition. I agree with that. But it seems to me that we're doing a little hairing Er Serbia's business and that a little government is trying to make up some things and some facts show things that aren't really what they are. What is the fact that from 2004 to 2010, the minus that JAT operated went from a minus of 15m euros to 23m euros. Today, the minus Er Serbia is 32m euros. Turns out the worst business balance in the last 10 years might be, and that's also because citizens need to know because they pay the company for their money. When it comes to the Royal Airport, it turns out that the former government, or that the Democratic Party, did a bad job when it made one of the most modern airports in our country. He's brand-new. It is fully arranged and equipped and here are photos of what it looks like at Morava Airport, which is now completely closed today. What is the situation with this airport is that it was only necessary to open two lines a week, with employees of the Fiat who live in Kragujevac and Kralje, and on Friday they go to Torino, and on Monday they return to Belgrade. Just on the basis of those two flights, the operating costs of this airport would be covered. This government has not found the ability to implement such a single thing in action and that these workers working in the Fiat do not drive by van to the Kings or Kragujevac, but that they can fly directly to Torino and return to the airport from the Airport. He'd start living, the King would have a different perspective, Kragujevac too. We think that these are things that have been missed, that these are missed opportunities, and we think that this is not done in accordance with the interests and needs of the citizens of that part of Serbia. Last thing. We have a concern, I repeat, that this law will not be able to be implemented until the end and we want to make it really clear once again to all representatives of the ruling majority. The Democratic Party wants Er Serbia to operate successfully, unfortunately that is not the case. The Democratic Party wants, when it comes to this area, to really be the most competitive, not in the region but in the wider region, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28363	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28364	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28365	You've already exceeded 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28366	I'm sorry. Here's the last sentence. The democratic parties will not vote for this bill, although we have submitted amendments, to somehow improve one part of it. As far as this is concerned, it remains that way and I think it is necessary to answer these questions that we have asked today in the debate in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28367	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28368	I'm not sure you'd get five for all the things you've said so far. Here's the thing. Let's take it in a row. When you mention King's Airport, or Morava, and when you say it's closed, to remind you, it's never even open. So, you've been dealing with this airport, made it, I repeat because of the citizens of Serbia, because you know very well, so magnificent buildings, perfectly, you've just done the opposite direction, you haven't done the right thing, so now we're fixing, as we do in every area of life, repairing and repairing here and doing it seriously. We don't take pictures, and we don't make promo flights to take pictures at ATR, saying that planes can land, and I'm telling you that I can't and now we're working on an expansion of the runway. That's what this government does when you talk about Moravi. When you talk about the airport, in millions of euros, and your colleague Ćirić knows for sure, he can give us the exact information, they seemed to be donations or subsidies to Nis Airport Nis, so none of that. What this government has done, so we've allowed it to be made, I repeat once again, a commercial contract. You know what a commercial contract means? So there's no donation to the city of Nis. "Viser" has accepted, in that sense and works. We made it possible through the Directorate, through the airport, through SMATS, to be fully equipped, that under conditions of poor visibility, this airport can really work, because we care that the airport works. It's a very important center. When you mention Er Serbia, or minus JAT, and then Er Serbia, it operationally started operating last October, so the first year of its practical existence. Do you think in a year she could fix everything that the Democratic Party has been destroying through JAT? Do you know that JAT had five consultants, five studies and plans to do what with JAT? Over fivem euros were spent only on studies of previous years around JAT. So, what happened? Nothing. So today, Er Serbia has good data, when you say at the beginning that you would like to be proud, so you should be proud, we should all be proud. Er Serbia is not a private company. This is where you said the Serbian government was being touched by a private airline. I don't know who you mean. For your information, 51% is owned by Serbia. You know, so it's not a private company. So that's what you said, I wrote it down. There's one more thing. You said that the Serbian government's salary and pensions touch that private company. No, we don't do that. Maybe you've done it in the past, because you're on your own. The way you've been acting, he assumes this government is acting too. No, don't do that. You have one verb that you use all the time. I don't get it. You will explain it safely, make-up, make-up, make-up, make-up, say - make-up Er Serbia, make-up the government, make-up the law. You said we were making the law. I don't know what that means. I like makeup, that's true, but this law thing has nothing to do with reality. Also another very important thing, you mention the Board of Directors, to tell you something there is a Law on Public Agencys, where it is very clear who can be a member of the Supervisory Board. So these are experts, experts in certain areas. In the previous period, we just had a chance to see who were all the various board members when you were setting these people up. Here the purpose is not to be political figures, not to be people from political parties, but to be those who really do work and who can help make decisions of the board of directors much better. It also seems one more thing to me, and I think as an MP, you had to get to know each other when we're talking about this, and that's to read at least the reasoning of the law, at least an explanation, if not the whole law. In your explanation, you could well see that the European Commission has fully agreed to the amendments and additions to this law. You could also see from the information that all international institutions have admitted that this law and how it can be applied. You may know more than the European Commission, the EU, from the European Security Agency, may be possible, but the current situation is like this. The law is applicable, we would never get category one if we didn't have that kind of inspection and make sure everything you've messed up as governments before, we'll fix it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28369	Thank you. (Goran Đirić, from the place: Please, replica. I'm entitled to a replica, and I'm directly mentioned by the name and name of the DS. ) Please, Mr. Babic has first priority. You're right, Mr. Kiric, but you have to understand, there's a order in which replicas are obtained. So, the first replica has Mr. Babic on display of Mr. Bozovic, and then you have a replica of Ms. Mihajlovic's presentation. So you have to understand that. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28370	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I believe that Mr. Bozovic speaks as an experienced aircraft industry acquaintance because in these vast shopping malls across Herods in London, he had to use air traffic by such destinations. I believe that he used Er Serbia and I believe that in his next shopping in Herods, London, it will be a shame to enter after these words addressed to Er Serbia, it will be a shame to enter, because those words that were addressed were extremely malicious. What I would like and what is being opened as a topic, whether aircraft owners in Serbia are paying these laws high enough penalties. Let's open the topic a little bit, when those people in Serbia bought those planes. Well, they bought them at a time when Mr. Bozovic led our country, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Pajtic. They bought them by dragging both hands into the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but first they dragged some Agrobanks into the pockets, and some Development Banks, and then Vojvodina Development Banks. Just like that. Well, they guarantee in vain, they get the money, they buy the planes, they buy the yachts, they buy the debts to the state, and the debts to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, come on, Mr. Bozovic, let's talk about when those people bought those planes and in what way. You say two planes per million inhabitants in Serbia. A little bit, I admit it's a little bit, and I admit that the European average of 13 planes per million people, but because of you and your DS, we had one plane all over the country and that one plane wasn't exactly right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28371	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28372	Be honest and tell us in what state and in what chaos you have left us this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28373	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Now, Mr. Ciric, Mr. Bozovic has also signed up. Now, will I give a word to you or him? You are an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, you believe you have the right to reply to Mrs Mihajlovic's presentation for mentioning the Democratic Party... [[Goran Ciric, from the post: We both have the right to replica.]] (Goran Ciric, from the place: That's right, and my name. And your name. Here you go. Mr. Bozovicu you? (Balša Bozovic, from town: He mentioned - Bozovic, Bozovic... You think that's enough? Okay, thank you. Please, Mr. Ciric, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28374	Good, we've successfully passed this first selection because it's really hard to get the right to an obvious replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28375	Mr. Kiriq, you must understand that there is a order that we must respect as chairman, that we know the basics of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28376	Mrs. Minister mentioned the terrible things the DS did, but I'll remind you that since one of the arguments was -- that they were great boatmen, it's a great infrastructure and tower and business building, it's all there but the airport was empty. Well, it's not possible to fill it without the content that should have been continued and using the donation that and then, in addition to all the infrastructure the DS did, the government run by the DS and the resolution minister, therefore, needed to put it into office. As in 1999, most of the infrastructure in Serbia, airport infrastructure, and you know it, at Nis, the airport, DS was destroyed after 2000 and local government in Nis, and the central government, with the donation of the Kingdom of Norway, managed to reconstruct it and put it as a possibility for further development of the airport and the whole region. No one complained about it inherited then, and we can talk about the legacy of the '90s or what the DS found, so much less than what you're saying. So, with the story that there is no fleet, there is no fleet thanks to the DS, in 1998 Vojislav Seselj then Deputy Prime Minister, then the government with then-Government Director Ziko Petrovic signed a contract with Er Basha, eight million and 23m euros in paid advance. Who's talking now, and I think that's a good question for which it's important to get an answer, what about that 23m-euro advance in 1998 paid to Air Base for eight planes, and now we're talking about the DS guilt that JAT didn't have a fleet, and that's what was inherited in 2000 by the then D.S. government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28377	Time, thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28378	Just a little clarification. When you talk about Moravi, please know, it's much scarier for me that you first built a terminal and you didn't create conditions for landing and take-off. Do you realize you were building a house from the roof? That's the problem with the Shipmen. That is why now the Serbian government is doing everything possible to make that runway look right and that we can really have traffic. So, you were working on making the building look beautiful, nice, to build that terminal, and you weren't dealing with what was basic. I guess it's the first runway at the airport and the first runways are being made around the world, you were building a terminal. That's what this is about, because it was much simpler to make a deal about it than to make a story about a runway. So we fix it, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28379	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation. That's why I was surprised because you called before Mr. Babic got his word. How did you know you'd be mentioned in Mr Babic's exposure? But there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28380	Thank you, Chairman. First, the minister mentioned me, but Ciric was given the right to replication. When it comes to, let's get the first presentation of the minister, so Mr. Babic, it is that I studied at Megatrend, I suppose, I would somehow take exams with you, but I ended up feeling like a little more serious college at the University of Belgrade, so I didn't have the honor of having you as my teacher. On the other hand, when it comes to Mr. Babic's remarks on the front page of the Informer, and it's about the Herods store, everything in my life that I've had a chance to pay for, I paid for my money and I took the bill for it. I don't think everyone has bills for what they bought. What I wanted to point out as the most important thing was that I didn't mention it as a private company Etihad, a pardon "Er Serbia" because it is 51% owned by Serbia. It's very familiar to me. All the restoration rights have a private company called Etihad, and it is she who earns money in this business, and Serbian citizens pay for it. As in "Belgrade on Water" where Arab firms earn money and citizens of Belgrade pay for it. So that's why we don't want these contracts ever to be present again when we pay for the money of pensioners and educators, and that's something that goes in the pockets of those private companies that we're obviously in a private public partnership with. I think it's a bad practice, I think it affects Serbia's public finances, I don't think it's in the interest of pensioners who have reduced pensions and that it's not in the interest of healthcare professionals who come out of Serbia or educational workers who have reduced salaries and I think it's a practice that will never happen again. I haven't had a chance to be in power, Mr. Granny. Then when I'm in power, I don't think you'll ever come back to that power again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28381	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28382	Again, everything you said is not true. So, management rights, firstly, are not true that they belong to a private company, that you have listened to my presentation and that you have been in the hall all along and you are not, which is your right, then you would hear that in front of the European Commission that ends your report, that according to the first preliminary findings, this report is completely positive and there is not a single regulation that the state of Serbia has broken in that part. I don't understand it again -- it affects the financial balance -- I don't know that dictionary, but I have to tell you that if I use your dictionary, then I'd say that you've had a huge impact on the financial balance of every Serbian citizen while you're in power, and I'm glad you're not because we're going to destroy everything you've destroyed to fix it. As far as the advance is concerned, this is the example I'm telling you from that 1998 advance related to the purchase of the plane. So, we're going to get planes according to the contract and we're going to do the contract and the real question is, how is it possible that all these years, 15 years you haven't realised such a contract, but after 15 years we're doing it and getting planes? It's an example of how it worked in the period when you ran this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28383	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28384	I'm glad I got a chance at a replica. Yugoslav airline Airways is not only a subject that has been addressed by one responsible and courageous government policy of the Republic of Serbia and with the help of our partners from Etihad, with JAT Airways, the irresponsible DS government has played for many years. What is the price of this game shows also one conclusion between the government of the Republic of Serbia led by DS and the consortium led by Rothschild. It is about the exercise of the Rotschild Advisory House because they did not have a single day of experience in the area of air traffic and were hired by the government of the Republic of Serbia to solve JAT's problems. This practical teaching of world and domestic experts cost pensioners, employees, the budget of this country a million and 200,000 euros to Mr Bozovic, not yours. You spend yours in Herods, these are pensions, so Mr. Jeremy Maud for 33 working days with a working day of 2,424 euros for 33 working days, the government of the Republic of Serbia gave him the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 80,000 euros. Mr. Nicholas Bonalt has a slightly smaller diary, just 1,957 euros. He spent 46 working days, was a little more valuable, so he got 90,000 euros. Here's the list. I won't have all the time to read...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28385	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28386	But this is a list of people who didn't do anything, and the DS of Mr Bozovic bought them with a million and 250 thousand euros, citizens' money, pensioners, doctors, police officers, soldiers, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, it's called irresponsibility, like the irresponsibility of these times to buy in Herods.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28387	Thank you, colleague Granny. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28388	Thank you. Constantly taking responsibility for the status of whether JAT or Er Serbia are on DS is indeed unserious to me. I mentioned 1998 and this contract when you said so, Madam Minister - well, it's your responsibility. In 1998, the contract, I remind you, was signed by the then Deputy Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Seselj. In the government were ministers and Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic and Jorvanka Tabakovic, all in the government when the contract was signed in front of Rambuje in 1998. You remember that well. Most of you were members of the SRS back then. Here, many of you nod your head, right. In 1998 it was a very unfavourable contract for JAT. In what way? I would look forward to Er Serbia solving this problem and taking advantage of that advance. I'd be happy to renew the fleet and deliver the planes to you. Obviously, the previous governments failed to under that contract, and many said that the contract was very unfavourable for us as a state and our public system, not realised, therefore, those planes were not delivered. There have been many losses in this regard, and I will commend all those who will succeed that contract that took place just since 1998, and at that time you were not responsible for DS, and you, Madam Minister, were in the 2000s and advisors in the Labus office, so you had the opportunity to do something and possibly contribute to the realisation of that contract. So nobody here in this room has a complete alibi and can't say - I haven't at any time been responsible for the realization of it, but we can't hide in front of it. We accuse only and exclusively DS, because obviously the source of this problem in the then government in 1998, and then in part many of you sitting in benches, which you had the opportunity in these different governments to solve this problem together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28389	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28390	I think we're closer to that solution to the problem when we realize and go on our own and admit where part of our responsibility is, and not constantly ping-pong, we throw the ball from one side to the other of this assembly hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28391	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28392	No one blames anyone, but it's very interesting that in 16 years the contract hasn't been realised. That 16-year-old SNS wasn't in power, it was your party. So the contract will be realised. If he were as unfavourable as you say, then certainly Er Serbia and its strategic partner would not have taken over. They took it and it'll come true. What I can promise as minister of resolution is that when the contract is realised, the Assembly, parliament and all MPs will receive a report on how and how it was realised and what came from the plane.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28393	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28394	It is inappropriate to talk about someone who is not here, and in parliament is not an SRS parliamentary group. After all, you didn't mind when you made a coalition with them in Belgrade, so you introduced them a few years ago at the time of Mr. Gilas' mayoral office and board of directors. On the other hand, for these governments by 1990, or by 2000, much greater responsibility is borne by the people with whom you made the government, too. But then you made peace, then you played basketball with them. It was great then, because you need someone and when you need them, it's the best in the world and when you don't need it, of course, it's the worst in the world. That's not how long-term partners are made, but it's more about you than it's about us. Of course the SNS doesn't run away from responsibility. We have responsibility, we have responsibility because Er Serbia is by the number of passengers compared to 220,000, as carried in 2013, I'm talking about the first quarter, 359.000 in the first quarter of 2014, up to 453,000 in the first quarter of 2015. This increase in the number of passengers is our responsibility, Mr. Kiriq. Number of destinations – 25 destinations in 2013, 31 destinations in 2014, 35 destinations in 3015. The increase in the number of destinations – our responsibility, the responsibility of the SNS and of this Government and Mrs Mihajlović for such excellent results. Transferred weight of goods in tonnes, Mr Ciric, in the first quarter of 2013, 359 tonnes, 2014 542 tonnes, 2015 875 tonnes in the first quarter of 2015. According to all indicators, growth and income and the number of passengers and destinations and goods transported, e, that is responsibility, Mr. Ciric, SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28395	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Ciric, Mr. Babic was just talking about the results. (Goran Ciric, from the place: He mentioned my last name several times. So what if he mentioned it? Someone thinks it's funny. Let me remind you that the condition for the replica is not just to mention names and names. Mr Babic talked about the results of Er Serbia. What is offensive about Mr. Ciric and his MP group? He had a replica. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28396	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality of Svrljig. Otherwise, the law and amendments to the Air Traffic Act are made to specify and individual introduction of new terms and clarifications of old terms, as well as the alignment of air traffic regulation with country regulations in the region, i.e. in accordance with EU regulations. The 2012 law is fundamentally amended. Namely, this law regulates the interest and description of the interest of the aircraft operator as one of the basic links in the safety function chain of air traffic, and thus the air operator must possess a certificate issued by the Air Traffic Directorate, and special conditions for obtaining such a certificate are provided, which is essential for the safety of all air traffic. This law regulates both the existence and function of the airport, and provides for what airports can exist in both cases and for what purposes military, civil or mixed airports can be used, and it is also regulated that each of the airports must possess a special certificate guaranteeing the safety of aircraft and passengers themselves. Southeast Serbia owns a rich history of air traffic, because next to the airport in Nis "Constantin Veliki", there was an airport in Srlig in the village of Merjelat, which was built in 1931 and was held in 1945, and in that place in Merdjelat Grudobra was organised in 1936 and the first airing. Here, I also have a flyer who was then shared with the residents of the Census municipality, and that's why I called about this point, because I want to say that Svrlig had his own airport in the period until 1945. I will return to Constantin the Great Airport in Nis, because it is the most important thing for Southeast Serbia. Otherwise, Konstantin Veli Airport in Nis also serves as an alternative airport for airports in Belgrade, Ohrid, Podgorica, etc. During NATO bombings of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999, the Nis airport runway was hit 57 times and 11% of the asphalt was completely destroyed. After the war, the airport was out of use for several years. In 2003, the Norwegian Foreign Ministry invested large funds in the reconstruction of the airport and the airport opened on 12 October 2003 and was named "Constantin Veli" Airport. Otherwise, what is important for Constantine the Great Airport is that the first Serbian military plane flew from Nis from the Tropanese Fields. The aircraft took off in 1912, and on December 24th, Radomir Putnik signed a solution where Nis became the centre of the air force and anti-airy defence of the then Kingdom of Serbia. That is why Constantin the Great, or Airport, is very important for all of us who live in that part of our Serbia. What is even more important for our airport in Nis, I can say freely because I come from Srlig, it is a municipality near Nis, is that Constantin Great Airport is very important because an agreement has been made between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Government for a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre that is very important for the whole region, not only Serbia, but also beyond Serbia's borders. We can remember in 2007 when we had catastrophic fires all over Serbia, and especially in that part of Southeast Serbia, when large planes came, Russian planes that participated in the ceasefire. Let us also remember last 2014 when Russian aircraft arrived at the airport that participated in the assistance and care of people who were damaged by the floods in Serbia, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, there are other things I want to say about the airport, precisely because it is very important for us, at the end of June this year the regular air traffic of Hungary's Wizz Air from Nis will start for Basel and Malma five times a week. This is the most important contract, as far as the airport is concerned, 30 years ago, because it's the first commercial contract. Why is this contract so important to the airport? Because we know that from 2010 to 2013, from the Nis budget, we have to say, more than three million euros for subsidies to Italian Wind Jet and Montenegro's Montenegro Airways who managed to transport 30,000 passengers in a year with this kind of money. During the same time period, the City of Nis directly subsidized the Nis Public Enterprise with 2m euros. It's not the end. "Nikola Tesla" had repeatedly paid and paid a total of 2.3m euros for the development of air traffic in Nis. So, from 2010 to 2013, from various levels of government, air traffic development in Nis, airlines and airports in Nis, a fantastic 7.3m euros was paid. To make things worse, according to Nis Airport management, a debt near a million euros was found. That is why the commercial contract with Wizz Air is important, which was recently mentioned by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. On this occasion, I would like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Transport, and especially Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic for his unselfish support in solving all the problems encountered at the Nis airport. Thanks to the strategy for the development of air traffic in this ministry, Nis airport is currently equipped with the most modern aircraft landing equipment, and by the end of next year this equipment will be fully operational. The value of this multimillion-dollar investment. The support for Niš airport management efforts and for all employees in this company is also provided by “Nikola Tesla” airport, which has on several occasions donated over the last year through the necessary equipment with special vehicles for the maintenance of runways and aircraft. I'm an MP from the underdeveloped municipality of Srljig and the airport in Nis is our airport and our development opportunity. It is also the developmental opportunity of the municipality of Svrljig, the municipality of Knjižec, the municipality of Gajin Han, the municipality of Bela Palanka, the municipality of Babusnica, Zaječar and the whole part of southeastern Serbia. That's why I want, as a man who comes from a poor municipality, all MPs to vote for this bill, a law that will allow the airport in Nis tomorrow, and the other airports to function. In this way we have a great chance of improving agricultural production and tourism, because we all know that from Nis airport to Babi's Zuba is 60 kilometers away. That is why we need to invest even more in the airport, because this is how we help the development of agriculture, the development of tourism and the overall development of Southeast Serbia. That goes for the other airports. Once again, as an MP for the United Peasants' Party, I will vote for this law with a full heart, because I am sure this law will allow the airport in Nis to function better, to employ people, to make people travel around the world, and to come to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28397	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Bojanic, and let the MP of the people be prepared Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28398	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, Madam Director, Mr. Ilic, I have a handful of reasons to discuss today's bill, because the law is good and concise. The second reason today is the several times mentioned airport "Morava" Boats at the Kings, since I am from the Kings and also with Mrs Minister and Mr Ilic I have been there several times. The third reason, and it was reminded by a gentleman, or colleague of Mileta, is the Aero-plan workshop of the Air and Technical Service or the aircraft factory founded in 1927 in the Kingdom. Unfortunately, after 1945, the production that was moved was not returned. The planes were manufactured on the French licence Brege 19 – 425 planes and Dornia Do 17 - 36, 37 planes. Today, there is a small private factory in the Kingdom that produces tourist planes. This is Aero East Europe, known for its 450 C aircraft. I hope that this small family factory will grow into a large producer, since it exports its planes to Europe and America. I think they had a big export to Germany. Before I say anything more about the Ships, since the Ships were a topic and I am glad that the Ships are a topic, because it says that the Government is doing the right projects and is doing the right thing, to recognize the problems of the great part of the Republic of Serbia. I recognize the problems of three large districts: Raškog, Moravik and Šumadski. By solving the problems of the airport, the Shipmen will also have their way into the world easier and much faster. I would like to mention that this bill has amended over 80 members of the existing code and that the basic reason for the amendments and complements the harmonisation with the standards and practices of the European Union and the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Also, this bill sets out to harmonise the concepts and definitions, which is the basis, as well as rules of flight with the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Here, for the first time, the problem of unmanned aviation is treated properly, as well as the mentioned bans, i.e. prohibited flight zones, dangerous and conditionally prohibited flight zones. The draft law educates the National Air Safety Committee. Data protection collected by the Directorate shall also be defined, the difference between aircraft flight plans in general and operational traffic shall be determined. The directorate approves air traffic routes. The obligations of the service provider are defined, as well as the recognition and recognition of certificates, both for those outside the EU and for certificates issued in the EU, the procedure does not exist and the certificate is recognised without the conduct of the procedure. This proposal for a law provides for the harmonisation of the concepts of public air transport, regular air transport, as well as general conditions for the issue of an operational authorisation of air carriers. The bill is closer to defining the financial conditions for the issue of an operational permit, in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Regulation No 1008 of 2008. Financial stability is very important because it is directly proportional to the safety of aircraft. The paper is also a temporary operating licence, also a certification of an air carrier, the issue of aircraft with a crew is defined. In any case, they were simplified by a foreign carrier to carry out public air transport with the Republic of Serbia. It also defines the restriction and establishment of public air transport. The alignment of flight schedules is defined, the introduction of the concept of “sum” whose application is binding on the basis of a confirmed agreement. Restrictions in the establishment of public air transport are also defined, the alignment of flight schedules is defined, the introduction of the concept of "sum", whose application is binding on the basis of a confirmed agreement. What I noticed was that the most changes and additions were at Glava 6 - airports, and this is the area that interests me most. First of all, the concepts – the use and distribution of airports, where airports are divided into civil, military and mixed, by further defining the conditions for acquiring the properties of a mixed airport, as well as certificates, permits and consent to use them. This bill also puts aside the power to place so far divisions in airports, airports and terrains. The bill defines the area of planning, designing and construction of airports, the maintenance of airports as well as airport services, ground service services and, ultimately, the concept of helicopters. What I'm going to talk about more is Morava Airport, located in the Boats next to the Kings. We all expect a very fast formation of the Serbian airport company, and we think it will be a big step, that our airport, Morava, will finally stand on its feet. Today we listened to who started what and who ended what. It's true. I was asking the imministre really told one truth – that the facility of the airport building was phenomenally done, that it was something modern, that even underground, where we didn't go, the most modern machines that, unfortunately, no one has maintained since 2012, or functioned. So it's not worth maintaining these machines that, first of all, serve to clean up waste water, etc., because there's no sewers or anything else in that field, so they put huge money into something that stands, and we didn't invest huge money in the runway. It is true that all those who are professional, competent, and above all people who work there at the “shipmen” airport, who are after the vocality of the airmen, said that there were many, let's not use the term smarter, but that it was much more sober to do that flight and landing path, and set, if it has to be, and it has to be, set up a container, which will at first serve this purpose. Unfortunately, I hear here some stories about the Turks, we've been listening to this for the last few years, and this is my second term in parliament, this donation, is it 12, 14 million, etc. In the end, the bill said that this donation would be much more expensive than if someone had paid for it and financed the construction of the runway. What's the biggest problem, that's that the flight-land path wasn't done either in width or in length. So we're missing a runway both in length and in width. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the problem. It was a pleasure for me to participate in the talks that both Minister and Mr Zoran Ilic were in, and we are already moving quickly to solve the problem. I hope in due time, and that's probably next year, we'll bring in the intentional airport. Someone here mentioned ATR, and the Antons also landed many times at the airport, many years ago, those military, freighters. What will bring improvement, above all to the citizens of Kragujevac, Kraljevci, Cačka, and above all to the Shumadian, Raška and Moravia County, is this very airport. There's also a cargo center, 300 acres around the airport. That's one big investment. What the minister knows, since she was a minister of energy, near the airport, is the richest coal site in Serbia, whose reserves are estimated to be 100 tonnes and we think it also opens up some major perspectives for the development of the area. What is in the domain of this same ministry is the end of the Preljina-Belgrade highway, as the Airport "Lađevci" is about 15 km from Preljina, 12 km from Kraljev, 15 km from Čačka, 30 km from Kragujevac, which will bring a lot of benefits and improve the conditions of life, primarily for residents of these areas. I don't want to spread anymore, 'cause my colleagues said a lot. I thank you, and in any case, I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28399	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28400	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that these amendments and additions will allow for further raising of the level of aviation security and that the basic reasons for the proposed changes and additions of this law are further compliance with the standards and recommended practice of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the legal assets of the EU. The proposed amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act are more detailedly covered by certain areas, as well as the adoption of sub-legislative regulations, and all in order to raise safety and compliance with standards. An obligation is required to comply with the rules of flight during air traffic, and the rules of flight are laid down by the regulations adopted by the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act harmonizes the definitions with the definition of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and compliance is also carried out with the definitions contained in the relevant European regulations. The draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act regulates unmanned drones, which are not regulated by the applicable law. The basis is to prescribe closer conditions for safe use of drones, as well as conditions that must be met by persons using drones. Also, conditions and the way missiles and other flying objects are launched are defined. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on air traffic, creates the basis that the Directorate, after obtaining the consent of the Minister of Defence Affairs and the Minister of the Interior, determines a dangerous, forbidden and conditionally prohibited zone, as well as the conditions under which flight takes place in those areas. Also, changes and additions provide for the education of the National Air Safety Committee, as an occasional working body of the government, with the aim of increasing aviation safety. The basis is created to ensure the protection of data collected by the Directorate, either on the basis of mandatory reporting of events, i.e. failure or interruption, or on the basis of voluntary reporting, and all in order to raise security. The Directorate shall be given the opportunity to recognise a certificate for the provision of services issued in a foreign country outside the EU and a document issued by the National Supervisory Authority of the EU Member State must be defined without further recognition procedure and in accordance with the European Parliament Regulation and the Council which the Republic of Serbia is obliged to apply under a multilateral agreement establishing a common aviation area. In order to raise security, it is required to notify the Directorate if the carrier rents an aircraft with the crew. As regards changes and additions relating to the field of environmentalism, the proposal to restrict or suspend air transport is made by the Ministry which has knowledge that there has been an excess of the emission limit values of gas or noise, since this is what the ministry is monitoring, and the Directorate is making a decision on this, while the applicable law was reversed. The directorate made a proposal and the ministry made a decision. The draft law amending and supplementing the law defines the differences between airports which are issued a certificate, i.e. which have to meet the strictest conditions, to airports which are granted a licence for use and to airports which are granted consent. It is also defined to carry out mandatory periodic checks. It is defined when the Directorate will carry out the verification, whether the holder of the authorisation to perform this type of activity will continue to meet the requirements and all in order to increase security. Certain proposed changes and additions also refer to air personnel whose operations directly affect air traffic security. The obligations of staff carrying out an airport security review shall also be laid down, with a certificate of training issued by the Directorate, in order to increase safety and compliance with international standards. It is also required that the medical ability of the air crew be determined by medical professionals who have a certificate of the right to examine health skills. The old age limit for carrying out the tasks of pilots, working hours, flight time restrictions, holidays, days off are also regulated by the proposed changes and additions, and in order to increase safety and compliance with standards. In voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28401	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Aleksic, and let the MP Vlado Babic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28402	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are discussing the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act. The main objective of adopting and proposing changes and additions is to raise the level of safety in air traffic to the highest possible level. After all, it is hard to say something new that colleagues have not already mentioned. It means that the basic reasons for adopting amendments and supplementing the applicable law are, above all, the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. However, it is also practical to apply the applicable law that certain shortcomings are observed which are certainly improved by the proposed changes and additions, i.e. to remove. What I will definitely look back on during my exposure is exactly security, that is, the part where he insists on constantly and continuously working on improving safety when air traffic is at stake. This introduces a brand-new member, among other things, that is Article 15a. predicting the education of the National Air Safety Committee. First of all, this committee is tasked with co-ordinating, what is most important, definitely, co-ordinating all entities that are directly and indirectly responsible for security when it comes to aviation, and also on the basis of different estimates that it makes recommendations on how security further improves, i.e. to improve. Also, there's a new member of 17a. which aims to ensure the protection of data collected by the Directorate. First of all, here the goal is to act preventively and in what way? In such a way that the Directorate will constantly receive different information about certain events and, that is, what is particularly important, from different sources. In order to enable preventive action at all, it is, of course, necessary to ensure the protection of data on persons reporting a particular event. Why? So to make those faces feel protected, surely, it has the courage to report a certain event. Otherwise, unless this member existed, she wouldn't feel protected. So, if someone in any way fears for their safety, of course they won't react, of course they won't report the event and thus will not be able to work to improve security, and therefore I think that this member is significant. The proposed amendments and additions are then more precisely defined in certain terms which are not sufficiently defined in the applicable law. One of these concepts is the notion of non-competitional flight, and then there are drones, which is very important, given that their numbers are increasing. It is now taken into account, of course, that these aircraft and records, their equipment, are also taken into account, and of course what is most important is that the rights, i.e. the obligations of the users, are taken into account in general in order to become users of such aircraft, which is, of course, taking into account certain circumstances in which we live and similar, very, very important. Then, what this law, i.e. amendments and additions, is that it is much more precise to give conditions in relation to the applicable law, which are the general conditions for obtaining an operational authorisation. Articles 78, 79 and 80 are changing, so specifically now in the new Article 78, very detailed, very precise, or regulated, which all these commitments mean, what financial obligations exist and which must be fulfilled in order to obtain an operational authorisation. These criteria are very high, extremely strict, which I think is very good for one simple reason, as it is known to all of us, is that one financial capacity of the air carrier stands as the equivalent of the safety that this air carrier, of course, can offer, and therefore there really is no room for compromises, and when it comes to compromises, I would point out that there is still a small compromise in terms of what is not in force in the current law, which is that there is now a temporary operating permit, which is valid for up to 12 months, of course, in how much the assessment is carried out, a realistic estimate that up to those 12 months the air carrier can be consolidated in financial terms. So I think that's something that's definitely good and that's supposed to be supportive. Although my colleagues, especially my colleague from the Kings, told everything about the King’s airport, I, as a royal, must stress how important this is, even though I say I will not owe it for that definitely because it has already been said. How important this is again, I would like to stress not only for my fellow citizens but for the citizens of Vranjska Banja, Kruševac, Kraljena, of course Cačka, Novi Pazar, Tutina, how much this will really advance and make things better in all fields, how much it will mean and how much it gives hope to our citizens and for new jobs and for the start of the economy and for attracting investors. So it's really something that we're proud of and we really can't wait for it to work, and so it's something that needs to be pointed out and certainly commended. Once again at the very end of my presentation, I would like to point out that the proposed changes and additions will certainly contribute to a significant extent to the quality of the applicable law, that they are very detailed, that they are very precise, which is for each commendation and, as such, they will certainly receive SNS support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28403	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and Art. In the 87th century, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP Vlado Babic has the word, and let the MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, my discussion today will be about the airport in Somboro, and at the beginning of my presentation, I must brief you on and give you an insight into the location and chronology of the existence of this airport, in order to get a more complex picture of it. The airport is located in the western oblong of seven kilometers southwest of the town of Sombora along the Sombor Apatin road at 707 hectares. The concrete runway of 1,800 times 60 meters and the rural trails were built back in 1943. The flight path was reinforced in 1961 with an average thickness of 15 centimeters and a width of 30 meters, while the rural trails were not strengthened. Along this flight path is located on the southwest side of the grassy summer path of 1,600 times 150 meters. So far, Sombor Airport has been used as a military airport and an airport for sports and agricultural flying. In 1994, the municipality of Sombor, Kula, Apatin and Odžaki ordered a feasibility study on the use of Sombor airport for civilian traffic. In 1995, Sombor Municipality established a special public company "Sombor Airport" in construction with the intention of preparing for its training for the needs of civil traffic. To this end, a detailed urban plan, an idea solution to the airport and a major project project for the reconstruction of the runway, the construction of the route and the platform. Flight path dimensions are existing in the length of 1,800 times 30 meters for the purposes of JAT fleet Air 72 aircraft. In the meantime, significant air traffic conditions have changed, and there's a low-cost company, and cargo traffic is on the rise, as well as the number of passengers transported, which we've heard is in over a million-dollar relationship. The spacious plan provides for Sombor Airport for the purpose of carrying out civil traffic of regional importance. The spacious possibilities are high as they extend to 707 hectares, allowing the airport to plan the highest-class runway of 2,500 thousand meters and a width of 45 meters for the use of the largest aircraft, such as the latest Air Bass and Boeing models. Given that Sombor airport is currently owned by the RS Ministry of Defence, it has also been said at the same time that this airport is not necessary for Serbia's military to defend the country, and that part of the space will give way to civil authorities and allow civil air traffic to be established. To do this, it is necessary for the Ministry of Defence to define its spatial needs to carry out its activities, and for the rest of the space to offer local self-government. In order to define the spatial needs and draw up a debossed draft, the area needed will be separated from the military and the rest offered to civil authorities in order to realise the intended purpose of carrying out civilian air traffic, as there are currently only 300 soldiers in the Somboro barracks. In this area various activities can be developed along the airport, such as the free customs zone, the construction of hangars for the maintenance of aircraft of different companies and aircraft manufacturers, then, intensive agricultural production is developed that requires fast transport of finished products to various distant markets, the possibility of building a cargo warehouse, etc. By finding a strategic partner to build Sombor airport, our region would gain significantly in its development and employ a large number of workers. As for the geopolitical position of the airport, it is very favourable because it is located near the Danube and the port of Apatin, which is only nine kilometers from the city of Somboro. The fact is that the proximity to borders gives this region great opportunities for development. As for Sombor military airport, which has been defined in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia as intended and for civil needs, I must point out that the local self-government in Sombor did not sit with its hands cut off. The activities of local self-government in Sombor since 1994 were further focused on the aim of getting Sombor Airport qualified for civilian needs, and all with the agreement of the then federal defence ministry. All necessary documentation has been drawn up and all the infrastructure of the airport has been granted all approvals since then by the competent authorities. Since 1997, there has been a stalemate because it was necessary to carry out the division of the airport to the part that would serve the military, and the rest would have been granted to the civilian population. So Sombor Airport would be, as well as the rest, military property that is not necessary for the functioning of Serbia's Army. The government's conclusion and the adopted master's plan offered the availability of real estate to local self-government with compensation. However, it was all a dead letter on paper by 2011. With the government's conclusion of July 23rd 2013, part of the Somboro military complex was excluded from the master's plan, as at the time, according to the Ministry of Defence's assessment, previously envisioned some of the immovableity to determine was needed for the functioning of Serbia's Army, or the Training Centre that is located there. This fact is very unfavourable for the City of Sombor, as it prevents the expansion of planned business activities and job creation, as well as the engagement of potential foreign investors to whom it was seriously counted, and based on the already adopted spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and the City of Sombor. The resolution of the city council of 10 February 2015 at the Ministry of Defence held meetings of the Mayors of the City of Somboro and representatives of the Working Group with the authorised representatives of the Department of Material Resources of the Ministry of Defence, and then it was proposed that the competent services of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia consider a way and propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia amend that conclusion regarding Sombor Airport and return it to the master plan and enable the City of Sombor to, in co-operation with the competent institutions, continue the activities involved in the realization of Somborom Civil Use Airport. This would be done by compensating between the City of Somboro, meaning, immovable property owned by the City of Somboro and on the other hand by the military that would offer its airport to use the City of Somboro, with it sure that the realisation of the civil airport could continue, with the compensation of the property and the establishment of adequate space for the needs of the Serbian Army. I hope that this discussion of mine will contribute to a better solution and the sooner the solution to this problem, the Somboro Airport, to the general satisfaction of all the citizens of Somboro. In voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party and I will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28405	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28406	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Madam Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, today in front of us the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Traffic, and I would briefly refer to the history of the Serbian Civil Aviation at the beginning of my presentation. On February 18th, 1913, Serbian King Petar First Karadjordjevic adopted a Regulation on Transport and Devices moving in the air and the Kingdom of Serbia joined modern air traffic and was the fifth country in the world, after Germany, England, France and Austria, to regulate the legal norms of its sky. The publication of this regulation has included the Kingdom of Serbia in those advanced countries that have, in their turn, the codification of aviation rights. On 17 June 1927, the Air Traffic Society AD Aeroput was established in Belgrade. The airport, as the first Serbian civil air traffic company, became a national airline of the Kingdom of ShS, and also among the world's first airlines, the tenth company in Europe and the 21st in the world. The airport stopped flying in the beginning of World War II, and after the end of this war, JAT was formed on April 1, 1947. Today, the former JAT operates as "Er Serbia", a company that represents Serbia in the best possible way, because in a short time something that was before bankruptcy was created by a proud firm. What's important is that soon direct flights to the United States will be realised, which is the prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and promised last year to mark the company's first anniversary. I believe these amendments and additions to the law are well-conceived and very precise in ensuring the safety and safety of all air traffic participants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A special act by Zkona was put in place by the National Air Safety Committee, which will co-ordinate the preparation and development of a proposal for a national aviation security programme. Also, other provisions of the Law seek to improve the investment environment and raise the level of services for all users. The aim of these changes and additions is to continue to comply with the standards and recommended practice of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the EU's legal assets. This is already seen in Article 1 amending Article 3. Air traffic law, which contains definitions of concepts to comply with the definitions of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the definitions contained in the relevant European regulations. I'd like to point out Article 15. The law, which regulates financial conditions for the issue of an operational authorisation, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council which provides for strict financial criteria to be met by air carriers carrying out public air transport. The financial stability of the air carrier is directly proportional to security. The news is that an air carrier who is in financial trouble can get an operating license up to 12 months, in case it is estimated to be able to implement financial consolidation. What is also important is that the Law decides the working time of members of the airspace, to prevent the endangerment of the lives of passengers and flight staff due to fatigue and to prevent accidents caused by a human factor. The law will have a positive impact on the aviation economy, providers and users of services, air personnel, as well as on the authorities of the state administration, as it will allow for the rise of safety and air security levels. In the end, I would just take the opportunity to mention the airport in Vrsac, the city where I live, which is now used to train SMATS Air Force Academy students, and what is the real possibility of realising in some time the idea that this airport will also be equipped for international flights, as local self-government leaders have for years pointed out that this airport will also qualify for international flights of small planes to 70 places, leading to the accelerated development of tourism and economy both in Vrsac and other Banatian municipalities. I would just like to point out that SMATS has invested a lot of resources in training airport facilities for the work of the pilot academy, it is important for Vršac that the airport has potential, and that SMATS has done a lot of work on modernising it for a short time. Of course, in voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28407	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milinko Zivkovic, and let the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28408	Dear Chairman, the minister of co-workers, Serbian citizens and fellow MPs, we have before us a bill on air traffic that is good, I would even say excellent. The adoption of this law should remove the observed problems of application in practice and allow certain legal gaps that have existed so far to be filled. My contribution will also go in this direction to correct some of the observed shortcomings in the part of the law that treats under one – providing services of interest to the Republic of Serbia, number two – recognition of a foreign document, number three – use of airports in international public transport and under number four – a review of foreign aircraft. Article 70 states that the government can determine the location within the Republic of Serbia at which one or more air navigation services are required. This is the space and framework for the creation of a Serbian airport network, and in this sense I suggest that in this article it be complemented and added, there should also be a network of airports. Networking Serbia's airport means creating an integrated system in providing ground services at Serbia's airports and opening up a space for developing and raising service quality as well as security. It also opens the possibility of developing both the primary networks and the secondary network of Serbia's airports. This system would be more efficient, economically justified and recognizable for foreign users where networking has already been done at all levels of airport work. In Article 72, which states that the Directorate may recognise a document issued to a foreign organisation by the national supervisory authority of the State in which a foreign organisation is established if the conditions under which the document is above are not less favourable than those prescribed for the issue of air navigation service certifications. The document was issued or recognised by the EU competent authority. Here it should be added that there should be a bilateral recognition agreement for the countries that issued the document. So the question of independence and respect for other production systems, such as Russia, China, America, is raised. We signed in advance with the EU to accept anything signed by EU authorities. Of course, in order to prevent manipulation, it is necessary to provide opportunities for both the conclusion and other bilateral agreements with the possibility of identifying acts by other countries. Article 107 states that the airport can also be used for international public transport if the airport operator provides permanent conditions for crossing the state border prescribed by the minister responsible for traffic operations, with the agreement of the Home Affairs Minister. International public transport airports are designated by the minister responsible for traffic operations. It should also be added that it establishes a border crossing at the airport with its solution. So the opening of economic and occasional border crossings at airports inside Serbia would also contribute to an increase in the number of flights and other airports in the interior. And, finally, a small restaurant of patriotism, as I come from the Bor municipality which has an airport with its accompanying infrastructure takeoff, a runway of asphalt that can receive a weight of 5,700 kilograms and a capacity of up to 27 tonnes and passengers to 16, should be extended and extended to 1,700 meters from 50 meters and installed night landing instruments as well as landing on all weather conditions. In voting day, I will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28409	Thank you. The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic has the word, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28410	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will not speak of Novi Sad Airport because I am saying this from 1992 to today, nothing has happened, but we are going to do something about it. I'm going to talk about the law and since my time is denied, I'm going to speak very briefly. The adoption of this law should remove and detect problems in application, i.e. the practice of certain provisions of the Air Traffic Act and create conditions to fill legal gaps. The practice has shown that the application of the existing Air Traffic Act where certain legal gaps have been observed, so that more detailed offices of certain areas in air traffic can be done by adopting sublegal acts, regulations. In the past, it wasn't possible because there was no legal basis. Article 265. The Air Traffic Act was authorised by the Directorate to adopt the regulations contained in the Annex of the European Common Aviation Area, an agreement regulating a specific area in air traffic and that other members of the law are now provided for by the other legislator for the regulation of the same areas. It was necessary to coordinate these areas so that there were no other options to address these issues in order to do this area, except to pass this law. In the area of air traffic, the Republic of Serbia has been governed by the Air Traffic Act, which created a precondition for implementing national legislation with EU rules, which represents one of the priorities in the EU accession process. With these amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act, the legislator provides an explanation of the basic legal institutes and individual law solutions, over 80 points, amendments and additions to this law. I've been denied to talk about all these points that I've set, but I must commend the Ministry for putting forth a great deal of effort and work to bring regulations and air traffic laws into line with European international standards, and that will put us in line for the world's air transport forces. The EU has also accepted this. So, I will vote for this law as well as all members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28411	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28412	In almost all discussions, there was more talk about Air Serbia, JAT, airports of our beautiful Serbia than about the essence of the law, and I will make a small contribution to the bad part, and then I will look back on the law itself. It is clear that Er Serbia is not the subject of this law and it is clear that Er Serbia did not fly a company that works with profits. It is clear that it is impossible to work on such a poor market with profit, and that is all the things that are clear to anyone who has had business in the economy. Whether there is an excuse to sponsor the company by Serbia's budget, it will stand on the cheek of those who do so. JAT was a company with huge losses to which big money was thrown, with a big question whether we had any sense of survival for so many years. And it's not true that all the time, that those losses were huge, but they existed. In 2003, losses were about 200, 300,000 euros, but were still losses. The announcement of the summer of Belgrade -- New York, on a direct flight, as the first time in history, or I don't know from Tito, is the first time it's incorrect. Let me remind you, in 2003, a direct flight from Belgrade to New York was made through the arrangement of Uzbekistan Elanza and JAT. It was abolished for unknown reasons in 2004, but it's not a theme for this story either. The low airport is probably the only airport that can have an economic justification and is also needed as an alternative airport for both Belgrade and Sofia and Pristina and Skopje, but I don't think it's a topic. What's important is that we have a solid bill, according to this concept. We have invested 26 amendments in our eternal struggle for Serbian language, for spelling, grammar, but also for efficiency and for stricter criminal policy. I think it's missed this time, but it's more my recommendation to the Ministry, the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, that maybe work to amend this law, which should ensure that the air traffic management system is brought into line with civil and military aviation. We now have to define this law in a modern way what concerns civil aviation, but the practical flying of military aircraft remains in the Law on Defence or in the Law on the Army of Serbia, which can cause the problems we had, for example, as was the situation on March 13th of this year, that "black Friday". What happened then? There's been an abuse of military aircraft for non-purpose purposes, seven dead people, and we're not... (Zoran Babic, from the site: Theme. Seven victims are always the subject. Afterwards, we got a lot of noise and a little bit of any serious assessment of what happened there and the New Party posted on its site yesterday an expert opinion which on page 26 explains and technically, but also legally what was broken. In that report, in addition to the obvious guilt of state institutions and officials, the president of the state as Chief of Staff, Chief of Staff, Air Force Commander, commander of the squadron of which was a helicopter, Secretary of Defense...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28413	I ask you, Mr. Zivkovic, to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28414	Please, they were talking about airports in Bor, so you didn't interrupt them. I am telling you about the need for this law to be resolved and disagreements between the military air force, or the use of aircraft for military purposes and civilians. In addition to all these potential culprits, which will, of course, be determined by the D.A., I hope, are obvious errors made both by the Ministry of Traffic and by the Directorate and by the Aviation Control Agency. I don't transfer responsibility to anyone here, but I think that everything that's happened is a big reminder that has to lead to this area being arranged in the highest possible way and that all procedures are known, as well as the use of civilian aircrafts, that it is also known about the use of military ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28415	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28416	From the moment Er Serbia was formed, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not adopted any acts subsidising and giving any relief from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and Er Serbia. From the moment Er Serbia was formed, I repeat. What you mention about criminal policy, we fully agree, already several MPs have mentioned a stricter criminal policy, and we will do it through amendments, I believe, correct. When he mentions military and civilian, what's in all the countries, what's military is through military law, what's civil is through civilian. There is no discrepancy with us and there is no disagreement, and there is additionally an hour-control that I assume you know, a service that deals with exactly civil-military coordination when we talk about these relations military and civilian. I'm going to stop there because you can't say that Er Serbia is sponsored by the budget because it is, above all, not true. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28417	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. On what basis? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: All basics. You don't have any Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why not. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28418	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will, of course, vote in favour of the amendments and additions of the Air Traffic Act, and I listened carefully to my previous colleague, and it was a little touching to me when he talked about military issues, since he avoided gaining his military experience in JNA units, when I gained it, as someone who gained this experience for nine months at Bihaq airport and how, no matter how I am a fellow farmer, I have experience in the air force, but I appreciate, especially in the military and anti-aircraft defense, it is now said to the anti-aircraft defence, but I also appreciate that my colleague understands flying. So when he flew out of the government, he landed on Frusch Mountain. In addition to the radar, those who know Fruska Gora know very well, right next to the radar were engaged in both flight and winemaking experience, and it cost the state one 550,000 euros for incentives and we will still pay one 500 thousand euros, since the land on which this flight experience was acquired is the subject of restitution, and now that 52 hectares should be paid to the legal followers of the owner whose land was taken away and whatever my colleague, as a former prime minister, had a contract with the people, to carry out the restitution and corrections of the old injustice, he had his wine and flight experience, along with the radar on the Frusco Mountain, won by taking from the state 525 thousand euros and three million dinars, and it would cost us an additional 500 thousand euros, so that it would cost us a flight and military experience of no less than the state will cost us millions of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28419	Please, Mr. Risticevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28420	The theme is flying. You said the theme was flying, and I'm talking about changing and supplementing the Air Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28421	Please speak of the law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28422	Please, Mr. Becic, you're not going to introduce censorship on me, since all the media in almost their own, two small steps away from completely falling dark on the ruling majority, which is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28423	You're very funny, but this is the bill of amendments to the Air Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28424	Will you let me go on? It has to do with farming and how. The Minister will understand. A while ago, a public interest was declared at Belgrade airport. So a specific land user was most likely Belgrade Airport or Nikola Tesla Airport. They were users of the expropriation that was made to build up and build certain runways and other spare elements that were to be built there. But the party of the former regime forgot to sign it up and ask you to write this down well, and I'm saying this out loud so that the public can draw attention to that, too, to potential buyers. This land, since it is not registered at Belgrade airport, is not registered to the state, the land is still being held as a land of private users, former owners who re-sell the land so that the state will have huge problems in the area of ownership relations near the airport because it was an expropriation that needed to obtain additional land for the extension of Belgrade airport, or Nikola Tesla airport. In the knowledge that this land is being resold and that new private owners are gaining, I assume that the state will have a huge problem since those owners who sold it, they got the money, they resold it, this time not to the state, but to the private owners. Since the cataster was not registered, there was no obstacle to transporting this land and now someone who fairly paid that agricultural land near the airport will have a problem and the state with it, and therefore I ask you to write this down and pay attention and check the information that I received from Surcin from farmers who want this injustice to be corrected, i.e. that this land is not being resold, because the farmers who buy this land will be damaged because it has already been trafficked for the benefit of the State or the user of the expropriation. That's why I'm saying, Mr. Becic, that this had something to do with agricultural matters. The air force also has topics on agricultural aviation, economic aviation, since aircraft can also be used to save agricultural cultures. They can also be used to protect vines, orchards, etc. and how they are used for these purposes and for us and not only in the world. I think my fellow farmer has such experience in protecting the vineyards by plane. So, not only did he fly off and land, but I think he could use agricultural aviation on such significant surfaces. Also, there are aircraft called rockets and models that can be used in agriculture. One is especially in forestry, so that they can be watched through drones and various models, not only cheerleading groups, stadiums, but also watch the possible start of certain fires to gain public insight about how to act. Also, aviation can also have a fire purpose. I believe that, since everything has been sold out before from the quality planes we've been protecting from fires, I believe that part of agricultural aviation and economic aviation can have that purpose, and that's why I'm saying that we need to pay attention to that. From these activities, I propose, too, that the minister write down that a certain portion of the income should be allocated for anti-building protection, since on the lines of overfly, that no anti-urban protection, protection from the city could be used on the lines of the air corridors, even though it would not be very wrong for the population to concentrate in four major cities. I'm talking about protection from the city, from ice, because it can't be protected in landing lines, takeoffs, air corridors, it can't protect agricultural crops and therefore result in certain damages to agricultural crops, orchards, vineyards, etc., so I suggest that some of the revenues from the airport and flight control are directed at providing crops, which suffer because they can't have quality anti-building protection, or that we change the concept of anti-building protection, so that certain planes are obtained if we all concentrate on that, so the defense of the city can be done to certain aircraft, so we can also use it as a way to defend from the city or use some combined way to get in the lines where flying, flying, flying, etc. they use aircraft that thus protect agricultural crops and plant them from the city. As for the other parts of the law, I think we should pay particular attention to security, since the Air Force can serve terrorists in a variety of ways. All the other objections that the opposition has pointed out I find inappropriate and inappropriate, since we have found a country that has failed in all segments of society and I think it is almost equal to haughtiness when someone complains about any condition, in any segment of our society and in our country, since what we have encountered did not look like a state and that we must first create a state through laws, so that we can train not only our aviation, but also our population to train as much as we use aviation as possible as possible as possible as a means of transport, not only for the transport of humans, but also for the transport of goods. Since there has been a lot of talk here about local airports, I suggest that the party of the former regime use their runways above their penthouses and set up air traffic between Vienna and India, given the significant areas they have under their dwelling areas, there somewhere in the pastures, and an international line could be established that would, for example, go between Vienna and India, by landing in Andrevlje, let's say, from the penthouse vice president of the former regime and the former president of the municipality, from its 250-square-square-squared penthouse, or some helicopter can safely take off, and even safer to land, say, on an apartment in Vienna, to be an international flight, which also has about 200 squares. I don't think there's any danger here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28425	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28426	You have injured a 107 member who says that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. There is also a penalty defined in Article 109 which says, therefore, it is not a matter of arbitration, but a mandatory reminder is given to the MP if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. The previous speaker's been doing my biography for a year and it's a completely irrelevant thing. The reason I've come forward now, for the first and last time, to pay attention to anything that can be called by the speech of the previous MP, is that next to the mass of untrues he said another maximum, which is that I avoided the army. Since you have the Secretary of Defense, ask the Minister of Defense to find out in the military archives why I am freed from the army and that is a disease that I would not wish for, or the consequences of, injury, which I would not wish for anyone, or any fellow MPs, or anyone in this country. If that's the way to talk about anyone, then this Assembly really doesn't make any sense anymore, not as far as I am concerned, but as the ruling majority goes through its chief ideologist to the lowest possible level. Therefore, the chairman, 107th as a cause and 109th sentence is something you failed to do and it would be good to correct that mistake of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28427	Mr. Zivkovic, as you know, at some point when I thought Mr. Risticevic didn't talk about the subject, I invited him to come back on the subject and talk about the agenda, about the agenda point, and all this stuff you're saying, only if you'd tell me where I was supposed to recognize you, that he's talking about you, I'd be very happy to react next time. It's certain that what you're telling me right now is a stranger, especially this last thing you said. I don't know who Mr. Risticevic was talking about. But it's my request that you tell me where you've identified yourself, so I can react next time. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Let me tell you how... That's what you can say later. Now I don't think that's what the other MPs are interested in, and I'm interested in it as chairman. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Yes, I want to vote. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28428	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, too. I think the laws of one country are being passed that apply equally to all, whether they are people, whether they are citizens of Serbia, were MPs, ministers, anyone or anything. Also, the rules in the National Assembly described in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly should apply equally to all. Those who propagate to be high-level MPs and that everything is allowed and all possible and that they can enter into the private life of the Prime Minister and that they can enter into the private life of the Prime Minister's brother and that they can touch and do whatever they want and whatever they want and it's allowed, that's fine. It's part of the political folklore for Mr. Zivkovic, part of the expression. Someone who first began to deal with other people's private lives in an unfounded, corrupt way and proved to be a corrupt way, and of all that, when it was proven that untrue was all he did and everything he said, we didn't experience any excuses here, let alone the resignation he had committed to. Now someone respects why something like this is manifested to him and why someone without mentioning the name and last name, and Mr. Risticevic did not mention any of the names and names. Whether someone's found themselves in all this or not, that's the problem of the one who found himself. The bigger problem is that here for days, weeks, not us, but the family of Alexander Vukic, we were exposed to the most disgusting attacks that were shown to be false, and now this same man continues to bomb us with similar things without a single simple excuse. That is why I do not think that the Rules of Procedure was broken earlier, as my colleague Risticevic was telling the absolute truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28429	Thank you. All the reasons I'd like to state now, you said, so I can only ask you if you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to avoid confusion, so as not to be unsaid, I didn't mention any name, I didn't even mention all the functions that my fellow farmer was doing. If anyone recognized him, it was his problem and his fault. I'm advocating Article 103 and Article 104 and for the simple reason that I'm removing suspicion that I've interfered with other people's private lives. It is not a private matter to get a 55,000-euro vineyard subsidy and three million. It's a public matter. Citizens have the right to information. If I don't give them, they have the right to receive them from the Commissioner for Public Information. So there's nothing controversial about it, because money is paid out of public sources. I was also talking about my experience in the Air Force, saying that in 1978, 1979, I served a military deadline, that I had been trained for six months, and that I spent almost nine months in Bihac at the airport, and all those who served the army knew how sensitive and significant the airport was at that time and that not everyone could have come there. Also, I was saying that my colleague, rather than stating his name, had the honor of serving the army avoided, or avoided serving the weapons and serving the weapons in the military, but therefore he was very happy to get his permission to keep weapons in civilian and not just to hold them, but he was one of the few who had the permission to carry weapons. Well, I'm a little incapable of serving weapons right now, and I'm a little capable of carrying it into a civilian. I think a lot of cats are beef heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28431	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I can only say that if anyone is recognized in every sentence of yours, it's that person's business. We as chairman cannot know, nor can we recognize anyone in every sentence of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, honored guests from the Ministry, Mr. Becic, you have injured Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the maintenance of the session. The order of the session implies, among other things, that you and other MPs adhere to all the members of the Rules of Procedure, including the position of Member 103, who says that the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Mr. Zivkovic pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of article 107, after which Mr. Babic, who pointed out the same thing to article 107, and instead of telling Mr. Babic that he has no right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because that advertising has already been done. You gave Mr. Babic the right to speak for two minutes. In addition, Mr. Becic, you have both been completely silent to Mr. Babic and the gentleman who spoke after Mr. Babic, and your obligation was to, Mr. Becic, that when you noticed that Mr. Babic was replicating Mr. Zivkovic's speech and that the other gentleman was replicating Mr. Zivkovic, and that he had reported after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as vice-president of the National Assembly chaired by today's session, that you would tell Mr. and Mr. Babic that it was not appropriate, or worthy that any MP misused the rights provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you would first give them the measure of warning, and that Mr. Becic, after that, on the basis of Article 109 and the notice. To vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28433	Mr Pavicevic, I would do all of this if only after, when you stopped, you added another sentence that reads – when Mr Zivkovic also reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure and replicated Mr Rističević, then perhaps I would consider that in this way he was violated by the Rules of Procedure. So, I didn't interrupt Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Risticevic, Mr. Babic, as you know, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President and Chairman of Mr. Bečić, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and honored guests, I suppose, from the Ministry, have one Latin saying and simply today's debate a little bit, and otherwise Mrs. Mihajlovic's guests reminded me of that Latin saying that it is particularly much unknown that she is wrong. My one feeling is that Mrs. Mihajlovic, in her desire to ensure that she is out of any ignorance in the National Assembly, comes to confirm that she has sinned and is wrong. This is now an interesting situation, which, Mrs Mihajlovic, I think, was partly pointed out by SNS MP Mrs Rakic. I noticed that. I think we've all noticed that, and now it's an interesting situation. Now, Mrs. Mihajlović, I will tell you where I noticed you were wrong today, and not just today, but about the content of this bill. First, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you have sinned again in the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. Dear gentlemen, we have submitted 19 amendments to the National Assembly, concerning this part, to the article. 1, 6, 7, 11, 12, 14, 15, 24, 25, 27, 29, 31, 37, 45, 49, 50 and 55. Mrs. Mihajlović, once you were here, I think, to discuss the Law on Planning and Construction, I was prepared here by a manual that I gave you and the book of a "Wild Society". I expected there wouldn't be this kind of mistake right now, but I can see we have the same kind of mistake again. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, I noticed one more thing about this occasion. You have here, in view of the debate of individual MPs, today shared non-transitional evaluations to the MPs, presenting yourself here as a professor who, if a national MP came, would get an "A." So don't cross over. Mrs. Mihajlovic, what can I say when I see that we have problems with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language? I want to tell you -- it is important that we choose the words that we use in our dialogue at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not appropriate for any minister or any minister to make non-transient assessments here. Another thing, Mr. Zivkovic said in his speech. We are consistent in one policy here, as MPs, in advocating a stricter criminal policy. Please, Mrs. Mihajlović, you have already responded in part to that part of the objection or proposal, to respond to our amendments that we have submitted to the article. The 72nd and 74th of this bill, with the maximum penalty indeed maximum, but the minimum one can be slightly larger. Our proposal is that those that are minimal and envisaged. In 72nd and 74th, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, is a little bigger, and as we suggested. Third thing, I noticed today that the government is being defended by Ms. Mihajlovic and Mrs. Katarina Rakic, on behalf of the SNS National MP. I have heard many words of praise from Mrs Rakic's MP for the government and for this bill, and this bill, gentlemen, in one part, promotes, in my court, Mrs Mihajlovic and Mrs Rakic, ineffectiveness. I've got an ankle. 77th and 78th. Be careful, gentlemen, in Article 77, it is said - the rules for the enforcement of this law will be laid down within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Now this is how I understand it, if one government is effective, if Mrs. Rakic claims this is an effective government, so how do 24 months from the day of entry into force of this law? Maybe I haven't been able to see a good argument about it somewhere. I've read the explanation of the contents of this article and of Article 78, but I haven't seen why it takes 24. Mrs. Mihajlovic, to take away the argument immediately that we are only criticising, we have submitted amendments to these two members as well. We believe that 18 months, gentlemen, is enough to prepare these documents, so that this law can be applied absolutely. Please respect, Mrs Mihajlovic, and these amendments and the previous 21 amendments that we have submitted to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28435	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his 96 right. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28436	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ms. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we had a debate on a law that has raised many questions. I think it is one of the key topics, indisputable, that the national airline, which is not entirely owned by the Republic of Serbia, is therefore 51% of the capital together with Ethyhad, so "Er Serbia" progresses from day to day. Of course, we will always prefer to travel to "Er Serbia", as we have traveled to JAT. But what is necessary and necessary is to have the readiness, especially the minister, and especially the prime minister, especially the government, and all MPs, and that is to be prepared to discuss all the challenges that can contribute to the efficiency of both these companies and all the companies that will operate in Serbia, thanks to the infrastructure that we are talking about here today, not only about Nikola Tesla airport, but also about the three airports that we spoke of as great potential, which at the moment have the status of military-civil or civil-military. What was that DS insisted on? Right on an open procedure that needs to be based on law enforcement. We here today have a bill of law that we said must first and foremost be motivated by this proposal of public interest. We've asked some questions and should repeat them. I think it's important for all of us and for the public in Serbia. This is the issue raised by the European Commission, which is a question of the key points of European policy in this area. It's a matter of security. We've cited some examples that are just opening that topic. They repeat the question – is this a law that primarily went with the aim of increasing efficiency and speed in transport, because one of the remarks of these solutions in the law is that it came out to meet "Er Serbia", which is based on its higher profits precisely on a number of transfer passengers and the desire to reduce transfer control, baggage in the transfer? So, I think it is a very important issue to measure between the greater profit and the necessary security that is necessary for both of us and that is conditioned by all both European and global standards. Another issue that is very important is air traffic deregulation. So the question that needs to be raised above all because of responsibility and possible consequences. Once again I ask – the European Commission has made remarks in one part, you have answered that the final answers are and I hope that really the final answers to this are precisely this kind of subsidisation or this kind of discount that gives state-owned company Nikola Tesla to one of the airlines, even if it was 51% owned by the Republic of Serbia, so with 50% discount on airport charges and 50% on NIS fuel invoices again the state of Serbia is there with 49% in NIS shares. So, indirectly, the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia lose some of the profits or part of the profits from these systems. It's open for discussion and I know what the answers are. We also encourage the number of passengers and the national company, the need to encourage and grow tourism, but I repeat once again, it is important that, in accordance with the public interest and above all respect for the law and our standards, we discuss this most openly. One thing that wasn't mentioned. We also mentioned the fleet, and I think it's fair to say that the age of the fleet has been reduced, but not by buying new aircraft, but by renting new aircraft and it hasn't changed the capital of this system or increased its value. I think it is appropriate to ask, and we talked about this topic, about 23 million dollars in advance, where we heard the minister's argument that she said -- "Etihad" has taken over and "Er Serbia" will take over the contract, he is good because they agreed to take over. Anyone would take over a contract that already holds $23 million in advance, that's the interest of anyone who runs any company. I think it is an important issue, and it is important that we also get an answer to what is often heard in the public and also in the professional public, which is that knowing that the structure of the capital is 51% of the Republic of Serbia, 42% of Etyhad, so these 49% were obtained in a way that Etihad borrowed $40 million in 2013, between 21 October and 16 December 2013, where the loan is later converted into capital. Now I ask the Minister do you think it was in accordance with the law at the time when there was no possibility of the loan being converted into capital? No one here will say -- we don't want well "Etyhad", we're just opening up questions where we want this company to operate in accordance with the conditions in which other companies in Serbia are operating. That's what DS insists on. I think these are very important questions that should be answered. I say once again, we all care about the development of all companies in Serbia, of course "Er Serbia" which is most often mentioned in this context when we talk about the Air Traffic Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28437	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28438	I thought I didn't comment again, because you're repeating the same questions several times and you're getting very clear and concrete answers and you're repeating these questions again. All right, these are your internal dilemmas that you speak publicly, but one thing really doesn't make sense to me. First of all, you're saying that, regarding the 1998 contracts, that this contract is harmful, that it's bad. I answer that "Er Serbia" together with a strategic partner assumes this contract, unlike you who haven't realized it for 15 years, we will realize it and have planes. Then you say, "Well, everyone would take that contract because they have an advance." So I'm sorry, is it bad or not bad? It's good or it's not good, because one minute ago, I realize it's not good, and now I realize it's good for you. I'm glad if I could convince you in this hour to say that contract is good. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28439	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search... (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Ziric, you are not mentioned in any negative context. I don't think there's any point in getting a replica. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28440	Thank you. I listened very carefully today to the debate on the changes and additions of the Air Traffic Act, because the value of one country is measured through one regulated airspace, through the revenue derived from air traffic through budget filling in such a way, rather than small funds being poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, due to an increase in the number of employees whether at Nikola Tesla Airport, whether within the framework of "Er Serbia". That, and I had a chance to spend almost an hour on Ada and for those almost an hour on Ada, I saw dozens of planes that were, and there was a landing corridor over Ade on the runway of Nikola Tesla, and I saw dozens of planes landing at our airport, unlike the period when there was no "Er Serbia", unlike the time when we had various experts, I called the PR experts at JAT's service at 2500, 2000 or 1800 euros, unlike that time when there were more planes in the museum next to the Nikola Tesla airport building, than they landed at the airport itself. During today's debate, I've heard all kinds of grudges. Most of the time, they had nothing to do with the law. I heard a grudge and that the greatest ignorance was not knowing that you were wrong, so I ask the one who made us so known – when he was more wrong, does he know when he was more wrong, when he advocated white sheets, or when he advocated ballots to fill the name of the Democratic Party and Bojan Pajtic? I doubt he knows, and as soon as he doesn't know, it means he has the greatest ignorance. And we've also seen regrets that this isn't a good law because it's an amendment and an addition to the law. This is the law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia always adopts laws, whether they were on air traffic or on amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act, we adopt laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing laws. And I'm surprised that Tadic's doctor of populist intentions and pamphlets doesn't know that we're adopting laws, not amendments and additions. Because it's just not the rule. I'm sorry that I, as a machine engineer, have to teach him right. On the other hand, Mrs Mihajlovic, you adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction several months ago in the National Assembly. Let this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act bring the same effects as that Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, I will be a very happy man. Because these amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction have led to our country becoming much more competitive, that the building permit is issued not after months and years, as it was directed by the Democratic Party of the former regime, but in 28 days, that investors and citizens do not wander more than a counter to a counter, from officials to officials, but to one place. Therefore, Mrs Mihajlović, you have the right, because of this experience, because of this application, to continue to pass, whether basic laws or amendments and amendments to the law, I know that the effect will be like the Law on Planning and Construction, which is the pride of both these governments and these congregational majority. It is good that Article 3 amends Article 10 of the basic law and introduces unmanned aircraft into the legislation. I was present at the stadium when one such, unmanned aircraft wanted our society, and by the reaction of those people who were primarily at the stadium itself, showed that we were not mature. And even then, even today, I feel bitterness in my mouth, in my stomach, bitterness in my heart, after that drone or unmanned aircraft, and most of the people in the stadium themselves who were, grateful to those people because they didn't go down and break, they bravely accepted it as a kind of trap that we didn't get into as a society. I also congratulate these people, but also other citizens, because they stayed calm, although the politics of many of the critics here resembles drones, from somewhere they're led but you never know where they're going to land and what they're going to hit, so around that policy is the politics of these drones or drones. What our people said is a fly without a head. What I would like to point out as a special value, I have never seen before the law that the minister is dissipating himself. Never before, and I've never heard of it in a multi-hour debate today, that someone said – well, it's a great honor to you, Mrs. Mihajlović, because you've done things, and there are dozens of members, from the ministry, to the directorate; because you said – we want to hear the profession, we want to hear the most responsible ones, we want to hear the ones with the most knowledge, along with, of course, the consent of the ministry as hats over the whole, not only the air, but also other traffic. Isn't it worth a round of applause, a commendation, to appreciate knowledge, to appreciate experience, to appreciate the knowledge of those people sitting in the Civil Aviation Directorate? There was talk today about everything and everything. I've seen colleagues who have read the first article, the terms, and the last member, the punishment. It's like there's no such thing as a dozen members. They didn't have time or wishes, from writing banners, or to read the rest of the law. For this reason, I am very grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, because today they patiently and thoroughly spoke about this bill, and because today it is a topic, in addition to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act, is also the topic of Morava Airport, is the theme of the airport in Vrsac, is the topic of the airport in Nis, although I see that airport in Nis is bad, just because there is no cafe at the airport. Please, don't these people come in there at the bar? There's a lot of these facilities in Nis that you can go to, eat something and hang out with people. Is it necessary for a grudge to go in such a way that there is no coffee shop at the airport in Nis and that the airport is bad? Please, instead, we should be looking forward to the planes landing and taking off from the airport. It was also the topic of the airport in the Ponyklas, it was the topic of the airport in Vrsac and everything they talked about, very thoroughly and very studioly, my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. But, of course, when it comes to air traffic, the biggest and most important topic is the theme "Er Serbia". I saw a colleague Rakic also talking about the results of "Er Serbia", that many were bowing their heads, that some of them were out of the room now, they can't listen to good results, they can't hear good results, and here they are, and now they come up with two fingers. This is good to see and come to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Mr Pavicevic now, with two fingers high in height, said he is the one who does not like to hear the good results of a company that is 51% owned by the Republic of Serbia and you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And I thank him for all the grammatical changes, both this and the previous and future laws and offered him the position of lecturer in the government. But don't look forward to failures. But don't look forward to failures. We as a society, as a state, need citizens to succeed. We still need a lot of "Er Serbia". If we all try to trip, look forward to failure, root for something bad, do we cheer for something bad for our kids? Only because of political hatred, depravity, which is from pathology, is how my colleagues and health colleagues told me at least because of this and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who, I am sure, are looking forward to this sort of thing again – the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2015 by the number of passengers – in 2013 220 thousand passengers, in 2014 359 thousand, and in 2015 453 thousand passengers transported to "Er Serbia" and if some complain that such trend and such growth are the number of passengers. In the number of destinations from 25 destinations in 2013, over 31 destinations in 2014 to 35 destinations in 2015, and I do not believe that Serbia will, while respecting Uzbekistan as a country, as well as all other countries, not believe that Serbia will be a partner for the trip to the United States, but European countries and directly the United States. The way of Serbia, the way of European integration today, I would say that some who have advocated the European path in the campaign now advocate Uzbekistan. The transferred weight of goods in tonnes in 2013 is 359, and in 2014 542, and in 2015 875 tonnes. Please, over 200% in two years is more tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28441	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28442	I end up with two sentences, Mr. Chairman, and I thank you for this time. The company last 2014 "Er Serbia", which is owned by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, however much someone wants to show in another way, ended for the first time in history with a profit of 2.7m euros. So 2.7 million times were defeated by citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28443	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Mr Pavicevic, you are very insecure if, like your colleague, you claim that I should have recognized you in white sheets, in a sentence spoken by Mr Babic - white sheets. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He pronounced my name and last name. ) Yes, you are right, but at the end of the presentation, and you have asked me to give you a replica based on the sentence spoken by Mr Babic - white leaves. So, please, you will now get a replica based on your name and name mentioned, but don't, like your colleague, look for a line in various sentences spoken by MPs where you recognize yourself. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and honored guests, first of all, I am sorry that Mrs. Mihajlovic did not answer my three observations today. I love having a dialogue here, and I'm terribly sorry it's not there. But, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we will have an amendment debate Thursday. We have prepared 23 amendments and I will explain all these amendments, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I hope that's when the debate will run. The second thing, Mr. Babic resented me for calling on a Latin saying that it was especially great ignorance not knowing that you were wrong. Mr. Babic seems to have missed that I have thus pointed out that we are moving Mrs. Mihajlovic out of the field of ignorance, because Mrs. Mihajlovic has continued to admit that she is wrong from session to session. Dear gentlemen, this means it's a person who's not in the field of ignorance. Please, Mr. Becic, record that here and you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The third thing, Mr. Babic here now says and points to us here – someone only read the first one and someone only the last one. Well, I have submitted 23 amendments, called here for amendments 1, 6, 7, 11, 55, to the members of this bill. Mr Babic says - so we are here to advocate a European path and thus answers my remarks that the government is inefficient, and I found ineffectiveness in the members of the 77th and 78th of this bill. I then ask Mr Babic, Mr Becic, - so what is an inefficient government that has not formed a negotiating team to this day for negotiations with the European Commission, gentlemen, when to this day no negotiating chapter has been opened? Well, how can we call this government effective on the path of European integration?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28445	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28446	We can't, gentlemen, it's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28447	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. You have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28448	First, I think it is very incorrect and malignant, it offends and threatens our foreign policy, a country like Uzbekistan, which is four times bigger than Serbia, thus humiliating as Mr Babic did. I don't know what can happen at such a prayer breakfast that the United States becomes the only country in the world and that MPs hate everything that's western become fans of the United States, their culture, and humiliate other peoples who have been our friends for centuries. On the other hand, when it comes to a drone and a fly without a head, as my colleague called it, so that's the best picture, I didn't think of, I'm sorry, for this government. There's no better drones or flies without a head, or better comparison, than this government. Well, it's a government that doesn't know what the minister does, what the prime minister does, what the vice president does. There is no coordination, as seen from the results – the decline in production, the decline in GDP, the fall in everything that should be in one normal country with a able government to grow. The only thing that's not controversial about growing is party employment, we talked about it today, etc. So, we were going to, and we're not going to give up yet, to maybe support this law if our amendments are accepted, because we are not acting irresponsiblely as the president of the largest parliamentary group, Mr Babic. Because it's not inconclusive if we point out that the fines for the plane flying over the city are in an unauthorized area and that the pilot, a natural person, the owner of that plane, pays a fine of 25,000 to 150,000 dinars, because we don't think it's any punishment for someone who has a plane. I know Mr. Babic likes to consult with his two psychiatrists sitting at the MP's club, as he just said, but I would ask you, of course, to consult with more high-quality economists you have at your Parliament club, with lawyers, etc. Avoid the psychiatry and evaluation of the appearance of individual MPs. You know that's not going to bring this assembly anywhere, and unfortunately neither this country nor the democracy we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28449	Thank you. Mr. Vesenovic, since you have called me in some way, for the sake of truth only to say that Mr. Babic said, I will quote – with all due respect to Uzbekistan, and he spoke about the company partnerships, not the relations between the two countries. So what you wanted to insinuate now is not true. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28450	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman, although I don't understand how my colleague Veselinovic could get three minutes, four minutes for the replica. I thought he was gonna talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28451	Mr. Babic, I'm sorry, just for the information, he's had time from authorized three minutes. So it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28452	Yeah, but in those three minutes, it's about the law, not the government, Zoran Babic or anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28453	Yes, but it's Mr. Veselinovic's manners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28454	I don't have a problem, though. I'll be very brief. To my line today, I'll only take the final line into one sentence. Boris Tadic is not a vessel, but he has fallen and will never rise again. Never again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28455	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, you answered? Replica, but on what basis? [[Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes, replica.]] (Janko Veselinović, from the city: On your exhibition. On mine, you have no right. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Please, according to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? To my presentation? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28456	I'm advertising Articles 106, 107 and 27. The Rules of Procedure because you from that place can hold a session, not participate in the debate. So you could have asked for a word, to replace you, and I don't see that you have another vice president, to replace you, Mr. Arsic, so you could say that's my manners, that's how I talk. So leave those reviews for your inside party relations. Honor the Messengers of the people. For a spoken word, everyone takes responsibility for themselves, and don't give a grade, because it wouldn't be good for us to give an evaluation of yours, your way of running a session and so on, we'll leave it for another chance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-19-0.u28457	Mr. Vesenovic, when you read the Rules of Procedure, you see that he gives me the opportunity to give an explanation to the MP who called, in this case Mr. Babic resented that I gave the word based on the replica. I answered him that you received a word on the agenda, a word at the time of the head of the parliamentary group you have left, which is three minutes and sir that's an explanation. If you, Mr. Veselinović, speak for days in a way that is not appropriate when you speak out of the agenda, when you speak in the way you want, you say it's okay, and now that you're denying me the right to give notice or an explanation to the MP, you think you're right. Unfortunately, you're not because the Rules of Procedure says otherwise. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Traffic Act. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miletic Mihajlovic and Olena Papuga. We continue the work and the transitions to the search on item 2 of the agenda OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AUTENTIC DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLE 54. Article 1 Higher education laws. You received a proposal for an authentic interpretation submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on 28 April 2015. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a review of the proposal for authentic interpretation. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
