ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36077	Good afternoon. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic, Susana Spasojevic, Marijana Maras, Vesna Bisarović and Branka Bosnjak. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, exclusively for Friday, due to the need for the Assembly to consider the acts proposed from the sitting agenda and that we have no public objection to not working every day. It's like this past the Rules of Procedure. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before setting out the agenda, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of the acts under emergency procedure, the proposals for addition and the proposal for a merger of the debate. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the National High Education Council. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 16 MPs of the DS MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances in which the listening and publication of the transcripts of the talks between Lydia Udovici and "Continental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the Prime Minister and the Democratic Party, given the fact that the alleged attempted corruption by JP "EMS" Director Nikola Petrovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 134 MPs, of a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives in the National Assembly has proposed that the draft authentic interpretation of the provisions be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. 27, 28, 40 and 71. Law on corporate tax (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’, No. 25/01, 80/02, 80/02-DR. Law 43/03, 84/04 and 18/10) and Article 41(3). Taxation Act and the Tax Administration (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 80/02, 84/02-correction, 23/02-correction, 70/03, 55/04, 61/05, 85/05-DR. Law 62/06-DR. The Law and 61/07), which submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2015. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 130, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 MPs, of a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the conversion of loans in the Swiss francs CHF to the euro, which submitted to the National Assembly18. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36078	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, you have before you the law on the conversion of credit in the Swiss francs to the euro, which has submitted the Turnover Movement on behalf of damaged banking clients. Dear colleagues, this is no ordinary law, this is a decision on the fate of 100,000 people, among them 50,000 children, who, today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will be left without a roof over their heads because of banking insecureness, because of the banking monopoly, because of everything that exists in Serbia because there is nowhere in the world. Here is a petition of 17,372 signatures collected only for the weekend against banking monopolys for the adoption of the law on the conversion of loans from Swiss francs to the euro. You are facing today's decision, whether you will support the banking monopoly or support your citizens. We suggest that you think carefully today before making a decision. Here's a letter from a mother - two days ago, I was warned to settle the entire debt within seven days and that if I didn't pay 32,000 Swiss francs, the bank would let it go for sale. I'm sending you this petition in hopes of helping someone because it looks too late for me. I took a $35,000 loan back 30,000, and I owe the bank $32,000. That's the fate of over 30,000 people who took credit in the Swiss francs. Most importantly, for the last month or two days, these laws were adopted both by Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the procedure, Montenegro, before Hungary, Poland. Serbia remains the only country that protects the banking monopoly against its citizens. Be on the side of the citizens today, make a decision to put this law on the agenda, to discuss the next days. The government may have its own proposals, but make a decision to include this law in the agenda, not to be the last place in Europe where banks peel citizens' skins. A citizen who, I remind you, will remain on the street these days, 50,000 children will be left without a roof over his head.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36079	Time. I thank you, MP. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - two, abstentions, 130 MPs did not vote, of a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36080	This is another law that applies not only to credit users who took credit in Switzerland. This law applies to all users of financial services. In a petition signed by Serbian citizens at the weekend, he wrote and wondered if you were against green contracts? Are you against immoral banks? Are you against currency clauses that citizens can't handle? Are you against disproportionate giving of a bank client? Are you against enormous interest, the biggest in Europe, and probably the world? Are you against the fact that the bank's client cannot protect its position and that the bank's client has no right because the NBS holds a monopoly and keeps foreign banks away? Unfortunately, one moment ago, we saw that the ruling coalition's MPs had no hearing, that SNS, SPS and other parties from that coalition had no hearing, that they were the only ones in Europe, probably in a world where they kept foreign banks, not their citizens. The only parliament in Europe that has not passed the law to protect its citizens. The turnover movement, along with Serbian citizens, along with all people who want to protect their citizens, not bank monopolies, will fight for the next days, by all means of legislation to fight against banking monopolys, against peeling their own citizens' skins. Nowhere in the world does this, to give a bank 1,000 dinars, leave it on the bill, and in a few days you don't have that 1,000 dinars, but 10% or significantly less. So, instead of your capital being fertilized, the bank of the Glocks is gnawing your money that you left in the bank. One-off interest exists in Serbia, which is charged to citizens, enormous costs that we don't know what they are and what they are for, except that we know they serve high wages for bank managers. We're wondering if anyone in the NBS under bank pressure, the banking monopoly, is protecting these banks? I suggest you and I make a proposal to protect the citizens, to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36081	Thank you. Time's up. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – two abstentions – there is no, 132 MPs did not vote from a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic on the basis of Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Freedom of Fear. Since he's not here, I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs out of a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DS has proposed a bill on additions to the Criminal Code, with the idea that we should finally try to put an end to a major problem, which is domestic violence, which is important in our society and is growing in recent times, and which is clearly endangering by a large number of citizens in Serbia. I remind you that Serbia has become a country of violence, that every day we have murders on the streets of large cities, that there is a rise in crime and that unfortunately the police that are to work on this matter have reduced salaries thanks to the poor economic moves of this government and that we should certainly try to make a minimum effort as parliamentarians to make a change in this Criminal Code to make it impossible for bullies who commit a crime in the family, to continue to have the possibility of holding arms or obtaining permits for weapons. I remind you that only six months ago, we had one terrible act of violence, or murder, where in Martonosh, there was a mass murder, where seven people were killed. Unfortunately, then the man who committed that murder was in the police, released and committed a crime after that. Our idea is, and we believe that this will be supported by all MPs present today in the Serbian Parliament, to put an end to the possibility that people who are violent in the family, have the opportunity to hold arms under the Arms and Ammunition Act, we know what is involved in the weapons and that these people are prevented from holding and issuing permits for a minimum of ten years in relation to domestic violence. I'm not talking about crimes that are defined by other laws, but only about domestic violence. We believe that this is a law that needs to make progress in curbing family violence, and we think that the law is not politically tied to any party in parliament, but that it is in the interest above all those who are unprotected and who are under torture in their families, and we also witness that mass murder is happening, which is something that has been increased in the past year. I'll just say, in the first five months of this year, 26 murders whose perpetrators and victims were in family relations were recorded in just five months of 26 murders. When we pass this law, and it's generally known that domestic violence happens first of all, this kind of crime, with the weapons that are registered, we think that we're going to be able to warn and prevent people who use those weapons in this way, who own at all, that they can't get the permits.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36083	Thanks, time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs out of a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 MPs out of a total of 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is a proposal from the MPs of the DS, a draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid, i.e. the termination of the law that the SNS has reduced pensions for more than 700,000 Serbian citizens. So, 700,000 citizens who were or represented by the beginning of the middle class in Serbia, acquired the right and their property was robbed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, past all laws and past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We will only briefly cross over all members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who have been violated by the SNS Bill on pension cuts. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 58, then Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 20, Article 36 and several of the system laws that today are trying to protect those who have spent their entire lives working, learning, building and building something, and eventually building our entire Republic of Serbia, for more than 500,000 other pensioners who have not been reduced pensions, according to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have frozen their pensions because they do not comply with the costs and prices of life in Serbia. By reading the title of the SNS pension reduction law, it is clear to every layman that it is a fraud. The Democratic Party is appealing to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the majority here in this Assembly that, like the countries of Greece, Portugal, Romania and Italy where constitutional courts have protected their citizens, since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia does not want to protect its citizens but rather the government of the Republic of Serbia and those of the oligarchs leading this country, we appeal to the majority in this House to support this law and to really protect 700 thousand pensioners who have been reduced unconstitutional pensions. To protect them for the simple reason they've had a robbery once in the 1990s, so DS returned those pensions. So we returned all those foreign savings when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were robbed. And to be clear, it will obviously not be our first time to return what this government of the Republic of Serbia has done in this term. All those who are damaged will surely return the DS again as it did after October 5, 2000. Once again, a PIO fund was robbed, robbed in the '90s, he was robbed today. I call on citizens to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36085	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against - one abstention - there is no, 136 of the 153 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the sitting be supplemented by the points — Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36086	I thank the president. If MPs of the ruling coalition are not ashamed that I am here 15 times explaining the amendments to the law and asking them to accept it consisting of a change of one single member, I am not ashamed to suggest it 15 times and I will not be able to suggest it another 15 times or 115 times, only it would be desirable that at least one of the more than 230 MPs who vote against this proposal say in at least one single word, which is why they do not want to accept the amendments to this law. The 15th time I'm talking, it's about amendments to the Criminal Code, which consists of only changing one member, that criminal acts that don't go out of date, include criminal acts - baby theft. In 2014, the Council adopted The Republic of Serbia, based on the 2013 verdict, had to pass a law that would regulate the area. It's been more than a year since that deadline, it's not done, I've been proposing this law for over a year. And here's another law where it's absolutely unclear why the ruling majority in this assembly doesn't want to adopt these changes. Does it make any sense that we don't have a majority for this law, does it make any sense that we don't have a majority to suggest that people who commit domestic violence make it harder to come to arms, does it make any sense that the ruling majority won't adopt a proposal that would make it easier for people who fight for existence every day because they're on the bank's recommendation, not because they were greedy, they want to take credit for the apartment? Does it make any sense that the ruling coalition doesn't want to pass the law on the end of the law, the law on pension cuts if, as the prime minister says, public finances as a pharmacy, how much better we've never been, and how much, I trust both the prime minister and all of you, it makes us uncomfortable how well we're doing. For the proposal I am making, no funds should be allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget. One member of the criminal code should be amended to allow parents who have stolen children at the maternity home to apply for justice after some time, to find out what happened to their children. If you're not ashamed to vote against, I won't be ashamed to suggest, so we'll see who can hold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36087	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 134 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of the Civil Licence for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36088	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nislija, I have proposed an amendment to the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. There are two reasons why I proposed amendments to the members of this law that this assembly adopted months ago. One reason is, and we are aware of this based on everything that is said in the media, that this law is contrary because the government is designed to access commercial content, it proposed to the Assembly and the Assembly has adopted that public interest is to exempt private property from giving to another private person who should build apartments and commercial content. That's not what our law says, that's not how it stands in our Constitution. This is terribly wrong that this assembly has adopted, and this government is applying. The second reason I've proposed to amend this bill, and I hope that you will support it, is the way this whole project is financed. In the law that you have adopted, the public interest is the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, and what is essential is that everything that needs to be financed in the context of the preparation of the territory of the exemption of construction land, municipal equipment, goes to the burden of the republic's budget, on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As we heard, when this law was passed, over 800m euros were asked. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Let's go back to that... I would ask Mr. Babic to listen to me. If you have something the president is here so that I can, I apologize, I can't concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36089	Ambassador, don't take on anyone else's role either, just talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36090	And this is funded by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, municipal equipment, and I will remind you, in your local self-government, when the city works or municipalities expropriate, it is done from the city budget, i.e. the municipal budget. When financing municipal equipment, it's financed from your local budgets. Only the municipal equipment of the Sava plateau, whatever its name is, is it from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for what? Not for opening 20,000 jobs that have been announced, but for building 300 apartments, most of which are likely to be one bedroom and two bedroom apartments. If you want investments, you could use those 800 million for soft loans to businesses in Serbia, to open up a minimum of 80,000 jobs, not investments in municipal equipment. That's what the city of Belgrade is supposed to do...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36091	Ambassador, you're not listening to me, you're arguing with the MPs, you're out of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić suggested that the session be complemented on the agenda by a proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36092	So this is the sixth time I propose to amend the Health Insurance Act and Article 41 relating to dental health care and the visions of insurance companies who have the right to repair their teeth and to treat their mouth diseases through the Republic Fund. According to the current law, dental repair and treatment of mouth disease have young people under 18 years of age, those who study up to 26 and over 65 years of age, with certain groups of patients who have certain diagnosis and pregnant women. I have suggested, and those who have the right through the Republic Fund are about 2.5 million in total, I have suggested that all RFO insurance companies have the right to fix their teeth and treat their mouth diseases, and this applies to those 4.5 million workers who pay contributions to the RFZO and do not have the right to dental health care. People who fill the budget of the Republic Fund do not have the right to use part of the funds that pay for the treatment of mouth and teeth. I hope you'll accept my proposal, because you don't need to increase the number of workers. There's enough dentist in the state health department to provide that service. All you need to do is allocate funds for the purchase of dental material, and I'll remind you, what I told you last time, in the RFZO budget, at the position of dentistry, you have 350 and a few million dinars, which is quite enough to buy material that in the country of Serbia people can have the right to dental health care through the Republic Fund. The government said there's no money in the budget. I am now asking you, dear colleagues, if in the RFO budget, which is part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted here in the Assembly, it says that there are unaligned 350 million dinars, and there were no rebalancings, and the prime minister said a few days ago that there will be no rebalancing, means that the situation in the register of the Republic of Serbia's budget is good, I see no reason why we would not make a decision to help our citizens and allow them at this difficult time, when there are a large number of unemployed, when people have very low incomes, to help them with the part of their money they pay, so that's their money, they can have dental health care. I urge you to vote and support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36093	Thank you. Put to a vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Media Services The Word has a National MP, Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36094	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I have proposed to amend the Information and Media Act and the following law that I will explain after this, about public media services. It was somehow in the package when we made that decision. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, the law was passed just over a year ago, and that law was abolished by the right of local self-government to finance local public media services this year. This law as public media services in the Republic of Serbia has two media services: RTS and RTV, with its three, two television channels and three radio programmes. The law, passed by the Serbian Citizens' Assembly, brought under Sava and Danube to a subordinate position. I'll explain why I think so. The law that we adopted then translated the subscription into a tax level, and it will be required to pay from January of next year, and by January of next year the same amount of money to be collected from that fee, which will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is set aside from the republican budget. So that's our people's money again, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It would be all right if, since the subscription had to be paid by the Public Media Service, that we all had the same obligations, that we had the same rights. But it's not like that. Citizens under Sava and Danube do not have the same rights as citizens of Belgrade and Vojvodina, Vojvodina because it has RT Vojvodina, and Belgrade has RTS and Radio StudioB. So RTS is a media house that covers the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, but the gr program that has RTS is based on Belgrade and what is happening in Belgrade. Other parts of Serbia, especially south of Sava and Danube, are represented in correspondence information. Here, for the city of Nis, I can say it's about 15 seconds a day, so let's see what you can see from Serbia what's going on in Nis and the environment, what can the citizens of Nis see in 15 seconds that we have over RTS. What say the smaller places, the bath, the crows, the Lebanese, the Raska, the New Market? This is why we proposed to create regional public services, which will be financed just as is financed by RTV, i.e. 70% of the subscription will remain...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36095	Thank you, you will continue. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 140 MPs from the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the congregation has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blaža Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented at the point of the proposal for an amending and supplementing the Information and Media Law continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36096	Thank you. I'll pick up where I left off. So, financing this radio-television of Serbia, as we gave it a working name, and the name depends on how the Assembly, when you adopt, makes a decision, will be 70% of the radio-television of Serbia, and 30% will go towards financing RTS, which is undeniable to exist. Why do we insist? There are two reasons. First, informing local environments. There will be much better information in Nis and the environment if there is a regional public service. Much better will be informing in Kragujevac, the King, the Whisper and people will know what life means to them, what they're interested in having, what level of information. It's nice to know if there's water in Dorcolo, it's nice to know if the trash was taken out of the Shadow, but I want to have it as other information as possible. I don't want that to be my basic information. I'm interested in what's going on in my city, whether, say, those four streets that were dug up three months ago are finally finished or not finished, whether the bus is going to the Nis – Niska Banja, or not going or late, whether the distribution in some part of the city will turn off the power because of the regular remont of the trafo station. The second thing that is very important for regional public service is what we are obliged to do by law, and that – representation in the public service of national minorities. National minorities in Vojvodina and Belgrade are ahead of national minorities under Sava and Danube. Why? They don't have regional public service. Then you have a paradox that the law allowed national minorities to have the right to organise their own ballot, and we who are the majority people in that territory do not have the right to have our own vote funded by the funds that we pay neatly and which we will give neatly through public service fees. Therefore, my dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to accept my proposal, to give us a chance for everyone to have equal rights in information, at the public media service, as they have equal obligations, i.e. As you have proposed and adopted under this law, they have a obligation to pay the subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36097	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 MPs from the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the congregation has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branko Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information to the media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 143 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korać suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by points - draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36098	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again I suggest that the agenda be complemented by the draft law on draft law. Because this matter is regulated now by sublegislative acts, and the ruling majority use it to pass most of the laws by emergency procedure without public debate, and if there is a public debate, the question is when it is implemented in an adequate manner. The majority of the laws then stipulates that it will enter into force within eight days of the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Proposals for sub-legislative acts, together with draft laws, are not being submitted, as provided for in the Resolution on Legislative Policy. Laws are passed without prior debate, public insight into proposals and without respecting the opinion of the state authorities. It is particularly important to obtain opinions from the national authorities of the Citizens' Protectors, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Commissioner for Free Access to Information from Public Matter and the Protection of Personality Data and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, when the laws in their area are being dealt with. All that is the exception to this ruling majority is the rule of law. That is why we propose to pass this law, which in a firm manner regulated by such a procedure, often leads to the fact that irregular and illegal decisions are stolen in laws, that laws are often re-emerged on the agenda for amendments and additions, and that there is insufficient knowledge of the rules in the public because of frequent changes and non-compliances under the laws adopted, and that the President of the Republic, who until recently was president of the largest positioning party, refuses to sign the law voted by the party in this assembly, mainly for the reasons that we are also instructed in the debate under the law when we disputed its adoption. So I suggest that this law be put on the agenda and that this matter be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36099	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korać suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36100	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know what time I'm proposing to put the law on the agenda to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government. The point is to supplement Article 20 by extending the competences of local self-government and predicting the introduction and security and scholarship of students and students. Local self-government is now finding the means to help its fellow citizens, students and students who are worse material conditions, as they could be educated and hatched in different ways because they have no legal basis. By supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, they would give me the self-government of a legal basis to do so legally. I think it's time for this law to be passed now, or put on the agenda and vote, so that local self-government has time to properly name these funds in the budget and to bring criteria and criteria for the distribution of these funds. This is important to bring in the right way so that we don't have a problem in revising the final account, and it's twice useful when local self-government scholarships young students. It creates a moral obligation for them to stay here after school and work, not to go abroad as most do or to larger centres. This way local self-government can influence the schooling and scholarship of people who are disabled in the area and who will come to work more easily later. So I urge you once again to have an understanding of this matter and to put on the agenda a bill to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36101	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, for the second time I would like to give you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. As you have seen, this law contains essentially only one change, one member, but with far-reaching and long-term positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Some economists, financial experts, as well as those who are represented as such, and this government certainly believes that general taxes cannot be low, as this would lead to the growth of deficits and public debt. The profit tax rate in Serbia increased from 10% to 15% in the government's mandate, which means 50%. The data we have indicate that there has been no growth in income from this tax. I will remind the MPs that direct foreign investments amounted to almost two billion euros a year between 2008 and 2012, today they are three, almost four times less. So the profit tax was just one factor in attracting foreign investment. Many transition countries had relatively low corporate tax rates and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument in the function of developing the economy, increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through export increases. With this tax discharge, we will begin to create for investors and all those who operate an attractive tax system in the service of the economy and the gradual growth of GDP. Just reducing the tax rate to 10% will not solve all the structural problems of our economy, but it can certainly be one of the important fiscal instruments for the recovery and growth of our economy. That is why I call on you MPs to vote to put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36103	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the termination of the Law on Temporary Regulation and the way pensions are paid. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36104	Thank you, Mr. President. Our MP, Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, has proposed a law on the suspension of the Law on the provisional regulation of the way pensions are paid. At the end of this month, it will be year-on-year that the parliamentary majority adopted a law that reduced the amount of pensions of 10, 15, in some cases over 20%, by more than half a million citizens, pensioners of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for such a measure were that, during the financial crisis, savings and consolidation of public finances must be carried out. Since the beginning of this year, we've been hearing how the state of the budget is perfect, never better, so good that we're ashamed, that it's like in the pharmacy and stuff. We believe, if this is indeed the case, today one year after the adoption of the law, which, in its name, has a word temporarily, means a temporary character, that the time has come for this law to come out of force and that the burden of savings that were made in the budget is more uniformly divided. In fact, if you look at the situation in the Serbian budget really, without these descriptive features that we get from the government, but you're looking at raw numbers, you'll see that big savings, except for the cuts in pensions and salaries, are gone. The biggest savings are here. The next second savings are somewhere on the level of 15 billion dinars, at the level of the year are capital expenditures. So what the state should spend on raising domestic economy raises gross national income. These measures, unfortunately, are short-term and fear that they cannot heal Serbian finances, especially because Serbian finances cannot heal on their own. In order for them to heal, it must heal the economy, increase economic activity, raise investments, employ people. All that's missing. It's missing. In the last year, we haven't seen it, and that's why we believe the moment has come today to stop the Law on the temporary reduction of pensions, especially because we are convinced that the final outcome of this law will be that it, which was saved, will have to be compensated to the citizens on this basis when the court in Strasbourg comes to its verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36105	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 MPs from a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36106	Thank you. Dear President, one of the reasons for this law - our parliamentary group had numerous calls at the beginning of the summer when the tax settlements for 2015 arrived. It was then that Serbian citizens received property tax bills that were higher than 10, 20, 80, in some cases over 200%. All this in the same year that the state decided to put its hand in the citizens' pocket and cut salaries and pensions, and on the other hand asked citizens to fill the budget, I don't know of which money, in terms of several times bigger than they were in 2014. We think it's unfair and that there are other saving places that this country has, not that by increasing the property tax, it's trying to fill the gaps in the budget. When we look at the budget analysis, this increase in property taxes resulting from an increase in tax solutions has led to local self-government budgets charged over August 10 billion dinars more than was planned for this year's budget, i.e. their budgets for this year. Our proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on property tax consists of the following – it is to change the way of taxation so that there is no more exemption from 50%, and no more than 20,000 dinars for the owner of the facility, but to introduce a release to the area of up to 25 square meters for each family member. We think this is a more appropriate solution, that 25 square meters per household member is something that is some measure of decent life and that the apartment where people live, in which their families live, can't be the subject of paying taxes on property. The tax on property should be paid in excess of this square, it should be paid on those apartments and houses that are issued in which families do not live, it should be paid on land larger than 10 acres, larger than 10 acres, because on the surface of 10 acres, we believe that households live and can achieve an elementary existence and that it cannot be subject to taxation. We also believe that property tax cannot increase more than 7% per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36107	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 MPs of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36108	Thank you. Dear President, the last two sessions we talked about, once in the debate on amendments and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act proposed by the Government, and the last time at the beginning of the first session of the autumn session this year. The idea of the Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, proposed by our parliamentary group, is that baby food is taxed at a special rate of 10% VAT. We talked a lot when it was the draft law amending the VAT proposed by the government, and the minister himself said he had no objection, in order to introduce more administration of the state, it might open the door to certain abuses, but our opinion is that there is nevertheless a need for one such change. Of course, the change cannot solve the problem of the white plague that exists in Serbia, it cannot in itself lead to an increase in birth, but it can be a starting point, a point where we show that the state cares about its future, worries about how it will stay with the population in some future, because if the trend, which exists today, continues, in some not so far-fetched future, is the question of who will live in the Republic of Serbia. From all of this, I think that you should vote that this bill is on the agenda, to open up the discussion, to see what else the state can do to change the bad trend that exists for years, and we think that this is the starting point, the point that we can easily agree on, about which there is nothing controversial. I repeat, the minister himself said it was doable. There is a practice in other countries to apply a special rate to baby food. In our case, that would be, according to our proposal, a 10% rate and I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this law and show concern for the future of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36109	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 MPs out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36110	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, the proposed law supplementing the Tax Act to earn legal persons provides for incentive measures and tax exemptions for legal persons so that we as a country are as attractive to new investments as possible. I remind you that Tomislav Nikolic said in 2012 that if he wins for Serbia's president, more than 100 billion euros of new investments will come to Serbia, then he reduced the amount to 10, but unfortunately that 10 billion for these three years did not come to our country. Obviously, the government's policy is wrong in terms of attracting foreign investment, and we want to make Serbia's corporate tax change more attractive for new investments. So, we predict that every taxpayer who, indefinitely, and at least every two years, employs new workers has tax benefits, by reducing his tax base by the amount of earnings paid to new employees. It also provides for a provision or a provision which would exempt newly established legal entities in economically underdeveloped municipalities from the profit tax in which they operate. In this way, we would allow the inflow of foreign investment into municipalities where there are not enough employees, so where the unemployment rate is too high and thus reduce the difference between undeveloped and developed areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36111	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 MPs of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic has proposed to carry out a joint principled single search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Security and Interoperability of Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on International Combined Transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Roadway and Things, the Common Principle on the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the Proposal for a Law on the Conditions for Enquirement of Employees in Foreign and Their Protection and the Proposal for a Law on the Prosecut of the Convention on the Law on Juristy, the First Decisions of the Court of First Decisions, the Court of First Decision on the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, and the Court of First Instance, the Court of First Instance of First Instance of First Instance, the Court of First Instance, and the Court of First Instance of First Instance of First Instance, and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of First Instance of the Court of First Instance of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – three abstentions – there are no, 22 MPs have not voted out of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session, I would like to put a vote on the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, v – two, abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by 23 MPs from a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda for this session. We're going to work on a set agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law of Safety and Interoperability of Railways; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on International Combined Transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on road transport of passengers and things; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on road transport of passengers and things; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Safety and Health at Work; 7. Proposal for a law on conditions for sending temporary work abroad and their protection; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and reporting of decisions and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children; 9. Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of the President of the Economic Court in Cačka; 10. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to a judicial office; 11. A summary list of candidates for selecting the first half of the members of the National Educational Council for a period of six years; 12. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Higher Education Council; 13. Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Art. 27, 28, 40 and 71. The company's profit tax law (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 25/01, 80/02, 80/02-Dr. Law 43/03, 84/04 and 18/10) and Article 41(3). The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 80/02, 84/02 – correction, 23/03 – correction, 70/03, 55/04, 61/05, 85/05 – Law, 62/06 – Law and 61/07. I would like to inform you that today I invited Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and Miodrag Poledic and Dr Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and Nena Tomović and Saša Stojanović, acting as Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I ask the MPs to sit down. MPs, please sit down so we can cross over, or whoever has other obligations, leave the room. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on International Combined Transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on Road Transport of Passengers and Matters and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on Road Transport of Passengers and Things. Does the representative of Professor Zorana Mihajlovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36112	Honored Presidents, Vice-Presidents, dear MPs and MPs, you have two amendments and two amendments to the law – the Law on Railways and the Law on Railway Security and Interoperability, of course, and two proposals to confirm the agreement with the three countries of Tunisia, Hungary and the Slovak Republic. The main objective of why we have put before you today the amendments and additions of these two laws, is to continue the reforms carried out in railways, or in railway transport. We want the operational and financial railways to be, above all, profitable, then effective and then all that we have done over the past year to be just the beginning of our harmonisation and the inclusion of our railways in the EU's rail system. The papers that are in the amendments and additions to both laws concern improvements and improvements in safety in rail transport, concern the establishment of competition in rail transport, which is very important and, I would say, so far, much more has been talked about, than has really been realized, and the introduction of access and use of the railway network. Railway transport in Serbia has been somehow the last time we talk about modes of transport for many years. The priority and interest of the government is that railways and railways return to a place they truly deserve, 3809km of railways has Serbia, only 36% is electrified. At the same time, we set out to make some changes. Change is also about reforming, but we have also done everything in comparison to start an investment cycle in the railways, given that a billion and a half euros stand in the railways, and investment, all with a desire for the railways, indeed, as I said, to come to the level they deserve. I believe that in today's debate, as well as in the debate in particular, we will make this law even better, that is, amendments to both laws even better. We are open to all your questions and I believe that the standards we want to establish in the railway will make Serbia's railway as competitive as any other railway in the Western Balkans region.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36113	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do any of the reported reporters want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I briefly report on the position of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At today's session, the Committee discussed in principle the proposed amendments to the Law on Railways, the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, as well as the texts of three interstate agreements in the area of traffic with the Slovak Republic, with Hungary and the Republic of Tunisia. Representatives have detailed the solutions contained in the texts on the agenda today. Goods that mean first-class compliance with EU standards are highlighted, but also simplification of procedures, as well as the ability to remove some practical problems, as well as to ensure a more quality approach and use of infrastructure. After the discussion, the Committee declared itself by voting, and on this occasion the Committee unanimously supported the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36115	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36116	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable ministers, respected associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to state the views of the SVM parliamentary group on the Law on Railways and on a single agreement. An important Law on Railways was adopted in 2013, with the aim of improving the efficiency of the Republika Srpska railway system and integrating Serbian railways into the EU rail system. A partial alignment with Directive 2012/34/EC, which establishes a single European railway area, has been implemented in the existing Law on Railways. The deadline for the implementation of this Directive in the EU Member States is the middle of this year, i.e. mid-2015. One of the most important reasons why today this law is ahead of us is the necessity of harmonising our Law on Railways with relevant EU regulations. The fact is that railways are one of the most vital parts of the transport system of EU member states. We must improve our rail system in order to integrate into the EU rail transport system. Here is the most important word - a competitive market for the transport of goods and services. The European Union has launched a procedure to unify EU countries' railways, and this is not about a single European rail system, but about a unique and efficient system that will allow for a deadline or a flow of goods and services without obstacles and discrimination from all participants. So if we want to integrate into this big market, then we have to do what-what to do, because, frankly, our rail system is very far from the European standard, unfortunately. We need to get this job done as soon as possible, and that's better, 'cause they're already feeling some consequences, like, bypassing Corridor 10. Everyone in Europe knows that the road from Western Europe to the Middle East is a road across Serbia. But if we do not have the required quality of transport of services and goods, then this current will, unfortunately, change and turn towards Romania and Bulgaria. Unfortunately, this part of the route is already being used. The more bypass transit is used, the greater the damage to our economy. These are unfortunately facts. So we have to start working to get past this problem. Like the fact that the current structure of the "Serb Railways" is unsustainable, overcome, as well as most of our railway infrastructure. So far, "Serbian Railways" have had a monopoly and level of investment in technology, in infrastructure, and in the last 30-35 years, unfortunately, they are at a minimum. I'm going to give myself an example that I wrote down here. We have silver lightning in our possessions up at the Vojvodina for the Shinobus, heading towards Subotica towards Kikinda, across the Senta. We call them silver lightning because the car is silver, but unfortunately the speed is not the speed of lightning, but in recent years it's getting smaller and smaller. When I started my studies in the 1980s in Subotica, with this Shinobus I went to Subotica and today it's the same, it's the same car, but it's a smaller number of passengers and, unfortunately, it's less speed for these Shinobuses. If we look at the Republic of Serbia's budget, railway subsidies are a pretty big item in our budget. We hope that the future of this subsidy will be used to improve Serbia's Railways system. In an analysis of the effects of this law, it was noted that the level of these subsidies would remain the same. In one word, this means that to implement this law, it will not be necessary to provide additional appropriations from the budget. I'd like to comment on the law itself for a few more members. In Article 8. The draft law amended Article 9 of the valid Law on Railways and reads: ‘The management of the part of the railway infrastructure for which the infrastructure manager has no economic interest shall be transferred to the infrastructure manager established by the AP, i.e. the unit of local self-government’. In relation to the provisions of the applicable 2013 law, the position of Article 9, the difference is that, in the applicable law, management operations can be transposed, while the obligation to transfer management operations is now imposed. One big question remains – where will AP Vojvodina's money or local self-government be provided? So this is about the transfer of the right of management to the railways of regional and local importance, to the request of the AP, or the unit of local self-government, by making the decision on the transfer of business the infrastructure manager, and to this decision is given by the Government. The amendment is that the decision to transfer management operations is made by the infrastructure manager, not by the company, because it is in the point of Article 39(3). The bill, there is the meaning of the term, stated that the infrastructure manager is a public enterprise, which so far has not been, a company of capital or an entrepreneur authorised to manage public railway infrastructure. The SVM parliamentary group will not give amendments to this law. We didn't think we should, because those amendments we gave in 2013 to the Railway Act are in some sense in this text. I remind you of an amendment that we then gave, on 3 May 2013, to the proposal for a railway law, which is in one part identical to the text of the amended Article 1 of the Law, which was amended, because the formulation was used: ‘transmission’, not ‘transmission’. The second amendment, which we then gave, proposed to define the public private partnership model in order to build, reconstruct, modernise and maintain certain parts of the railway infrastructure at national level, at the level of an autonomous province or local self-government. As we have seen from the proposed law, Chapter 11 – concession and public private partnership – is introduced. A new member of 64 is defined as a concession and a public-private partnership. It can be given for the construction, reconstruction and management of railway infrastructure, in accordance with the rules governing public-private partnership and concessions. So, this amendment before in 2013 is, in some ways, in the text of this law. As regards the new Article 49, if the cross-section of railway infrastructure and road takes place at the request of local self-government, company or other legal person or undertaking, the cost of building an overpass, underpass, i.e. a road crossing, the costs of setting up devices and devices and other costs of ensuring safe and uninterrupted traffic at that crossing shall be borne by the road infrastructure manager, i.e. by the applicant. The same question is also raised as I asked before – will local self-government have enough resources to process it or must we somehow provide for these funds to help local self-government or sometimes AP Vojvodina? As last, in Article 43. The draft law shall be amended for a period of three months to adopt rules implementing this law. It's a little amazing to me that two years of writing there, and that's why I pointed this out because so far it hasn't been said like that, for example. We're moving on to a few months. Finally, for this law, the parliamentary group of the Duke of Hungarian Union will vote. Finally, an agreement -- a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in road transport of passengers and things. The adoption and entry into force shall cease to apply those three agreements which have been concluded in due time between then Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary. One agreement was signed in Budapest in 1962, the second agreement in 1965 in Belgrade, and the third in Segedin in 1982. This agreement today, which is ahead of us, improves economic and trade co-operation between the two countries, which is positive, and the agreement applies only to road traffic, means, for other modes of traffic, such as river, air, rail, it is not just road traffic. So, this agreement was signed at the Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary, held in Belgrade on 1 July 2014. The agreement in front of us is a detailed, modern act that will allow easier, faster and more efficient transportation of faces and things by road. The application of this agreement is expected to improve the economy between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. Once again, to point out that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will vote on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36117	Thank you. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36118	Thank you. A respected minister with associates, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have a joint principled single search of several draft laws, so: The Law on Railways, the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways and three agreements – the first between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovakia, the second between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on road transport of passengers and things and the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Tunisia on road transport of passengers and things. Of course, at the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the above-mentioned drafts of the law. My presentation at the very beginning will be focused certainly on the draft law on railways. At the beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group will support this bill because its adoption creates primarily conditions to improve the efficiency of rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, its integration into the transport services market, as well as the integration of Serbian rail into the EU rail system. As I have already mentioned the EU, I will say some important things, that the EU has started a procedure for uniting the rail countries into a single system. Here it is said that it is not about creating a single European railway, but about the unique and effective conditions for traffic without obstacles and discrimination against any of the participants. Certainly, the aim is to encourage private operators to do this job, and an increase in competition should lead to increased quality of services, both in terms of safety and in terms of competition of product prices. In fact, it all started in the 1990s, when the countries of the European Community added great importance to solving problems in rail traffic. The first directive has been adopted by the Member States of the European Community to ensure that railway undertakings will ensure the status of independent operators acting in a commercial manner and adapting to market needs. This Directive has practically become the basis for any future normative acts. So, the first package of EU regulations was adopted in 2001, which regulates the way market access and authorisation to operators, the second package of 2004 which established the European Railway Agency and in 2013 adopted a fourth package of measures defining the procedure for a single certificate for rail vehicles in EU countries and certainly the liberalisation of internal passenger transport. Practically, I must say, the railway is increasingly returning to fashion as the most environmentally acceptable, on the one hand, the kind of ground transport, which, with a good organisation, can certainly be economically very, very competitive. I'm just going to say one example here, that, say, Switzerland almost banned the transit of the truck and forced rail transport. As far as the EU is concerned, it has adopted a special agenda envisioning the decommissioning of roads, setting the goal of half of the total freight transport being carried out by railways by 2050. I have to say, in previous decades, industrial railways, suppressed by road traffic, are once again becoming very, very current. Let's just say, I'm going to give one example, maybe a little or more famous, that, say, Russia itself has 63,000 kilometers of industrial railways, and it's also very little known that, say, "Etyhad", one of the world's leading air companies has a section that deals with rail transport. Now, as far as Serbia is concerned, it is little known that, besides state-owned companies, private workers are engaged in rail transport. Here, Minister, I come, for example, from Kragujevac, there is "Fiat", right, they hired a private company "Combined Transport" for the transport of industrial track. But, let me say, they weren't just working for "Fiat." In addition to "Fiyata", there is, for example, NIS, Petrochemy, then "The Irons", or systems that Serbian Railways were unable to provide because of the lack of locomotives. But let me point out, let's go back a little bit, so since 2005, this law has allowed private citizens to use rail infrastructure. Now, returning to the Serbian Railways, to say the situation seemed. I'll just say two things that can be significant. So over 20,000 employees, on the other hand, the most touched transportation company in the country, with more than 10 billion from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm saying it was. But I think already this serious and responsible government has made a big leap forward and certainly better days for the railroad. When I say that, I'll just say some important data. I think primarily that the value of current railway projects is greater than one billion euros, so one really encouraging data. In the next few years alone, Serbia will have more than 500km of modernised railways to transport 60 modern trains. Minister, I also have to say this, nice and encouraging sounds like information that on our tracks a brand-new train is moving up to 120 kilometers per hour. That may have been unthinkable once, but we've come to that point. So, since 1981, when new electric trains from the then Soviet Union were purchased, after so many years we have the first electric furniture on Serbian railways. Three new companies were created from the Railways – Infrastructure Company, Passenger Traffic Company and Freight Transport Company. Someone would now say maliciously – new personnel, new employment. I think this restructuring certainly means rationalizing, not expanding these companies. You'll agree with me that that's the case, and it'll show up in action. To conclude, as far as this law is concerned. Serbia's railway must be modern, developed, not like 131 years ago, when we formed our railway, that our trains move 40km per hour. Finally, this law brings about the correction of the shortcomings observed in monitoring the current law, due to the efficiency of the "Serbian Railways", then the closure and regulation of the rail market and the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. Of course, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in Voting Day will support the bill. When it comes to the proposal for a safety and interoperability law, it should be said that it creates conditions that allow our railways to be safe, interoperable, in order to make rail traffic uninterrupted. The safety of railways within the meaning of this law covers conditions that meet the rail system and railway workers, as well as other conditions of importance for the achievement of safe and uninterrupted railway traffic. Interoperability of railways within the meaning of this law is the ability of the railway system to enable safe and uninterrupted traffic of trains meeting the necessary requirements for a particular network. This capacity depends on all regulatory, technical, exploitation conditions that must be met in order to meet the basic interoperability requirements. The provisions of this law do not apply to subways, trams and other light rail systems, and the provisions on interoperability do not apply to the tourist-museum railway. At the very end, I'll talk about three agreements, very briefly. The first agreement is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on international combined traffic, signed in December 2014. What exactly does this agreement mean? In line with the European Commission's recommendations, this agreement seeks to improve the trade in goods by using an environmentally acceptable mode of transport. I must always mention here that we have a Slovak friendly country, we have exceptional relations and they support us on territorial integrity and European pathways. When it comes to two other agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on road transport of passengers and things, I will say they were signed in July 2014 with Hungary and March 2014 with Tunisia. In practice, these agreements arranged road transport of passengers and things between states, transit through the territory of the two countries and transport from and to foreign road transport Contracting Parties. The conclusion of this Agreement provides a legal framework for improving bilateral, trade and economic co-operation. In the end, I will say that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support all the bills mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36119	The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36120	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished Deputy Prime Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the previous assembly meeting in 2013, we have brought in two very important system, roof, laws with the idea of halting the process of collapse of railway infrastructure and collapse of quality but also the level of traffic, whether it be rail traffic, whether it be passenger transport or goods transport. It's about the Law on Railways and the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways. Of course, there were also those who pointed to certain shortcomings in the proposed legislative solutions, but I believe that today we can all agree that these two laws at that time represented a very important step forward and that these two laws made the legislation of the Republic of Serbia in this area equal to European legislation. However, application has shown that there are certain things that can be improved in these laws, that is, there are certain shortcomings that can be addressed, and when we add to that our desire and obligation to bring our legislation into line with EU law, then we see that there are enough important reasons to talk about the amendments and additions of these two laws today. To begin with, I would like to say a few words about the political-economic and geographical aspect of the importance of adopting, or rather, the promotions of these two laws today. Of course, no one tries to lead citizens astray that by bringing these changes and supplementing them all, as we couldn't solve by passing those two laws two years ago all the problems that exist in the railways, because it can't be solved by one move of some magic wand. On the other hand, I believe it is clear to everyone that a quality, permanent, permanent house is built only on good foundations. I think, and I believe that most of my colleagues agree, that these two legal solutions and their changes and additions today are a good basis for solving problems that exist in rail traffic everywhere in the world, and even in Serbia, I would say, especially in Serbia. Railway traffic faces numerous challenges, unfortunately, not since yesterday but half a century, for various reasons. In the first place, because the transport and transport sectors have seen huge changes, and secondly, the modern age has brought about some changes. About 60 years ago, around, the whole world is increasingly investing in road infrastructure, I'd say, to a pretty large extent, at the expense of railway infrastructure, and car and truck traffic are getting primate. On the other hand, we have, I would say, a real boom of air traffic, which thanks to this boom, and thanks to its increasing volume, has also become increasingly available to more and more users, whether it is about the transport of passengers, whether it is about the transport of diamonds or goods, which affects rail traffic. When we add to this a certain redistribution in economic development at global level, i.e. an increasing growth in services that represent non-productive activity in relation to manufacturing industries that are again in their nature and are essentially more dependent on rail traffic, or rail transport, then it becomes clear why the crisis of rail traffic has arisen anywhere in the world, even in far more developed countries than Serbia. However, unlike Serbia, these countries have invested huge funds in the development of rail infrastructure and railways in general and thus tried to reduce the gap that has arisen and which continues to develop. On the other hand, I believe that everyone knows that in the last few decades, our country has invested almost nothing in the railways and that it makes sense that our rail traffic, or railways in general, has fallen to such a low branch. In addition to our rail traffic being in such a serious problem, I represent a problem for the budget, i.e. for all citizens who are filling that budget, because from that budget all those costs are subsidized, i.e. all the minuses produced by the Railways of Serbia, and what can I say, under the circumstances, that represents an inconvenience for citizens and businesses who are forced to use rail services. It is also a serious strategic problem for Serbia because of this poor quality of rail infrastructure. In Serbia, we have a phenomenon that more and more operators, whether they are passenger or freight operators, decide to move traffic, talk about international traffic from Serbia, that is to say, routes going from Western Europe to the Middle East, Turkey continues to move from Serbia and to go through Bulgaria and Romania. So that famous route that has existed for two millenniums and that's going through Serbia today because of our irresponsible behavior that's been going on for decades is practically changing and I think it's something that's inadmissible. Our state and government of the RS have recognised this problem and decided that, firstly, by investing in rail infrastructure, by increasing the competitiveness of our railways and thus trying to withdraw international traffic that we want to take from some other directions. For this reason, it was approached by talks with the Russian Federation, which gave credit under very favourable financial conditions, precisely for the restoration of railway infrastructure and railways in general, and the programme is already being implemented. On the other hand, we have a plan that we are working on with our partners from Hungary and China on the realisation of the fast track in Belgrade – Budapest, which should begin to be realized this autumn. So these are the plans that should put Serbia back on the map, on a serious rail map of Europe. Only by strong investment, it seems to me, that Serbia in the future can overcome the trunk that has to do with developed countries, but unfortunately, also with some countries in the environment, or in the region. That trunk, as I've already said, is real with decades of unserious and irresponsible behavior and non-investment in railways. As I said at the outset, the best basis for smooth, accelerated development of rail traffic, i.e. the rail system in Serbia, is precisely the adoption of quality legal solutions, and in this sense the SDPS Parliamentary Group, in the voting day, will support these amendments and additions to the law, but of course by following a package of laws proposed by the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. In addition to those strategic reasons for the long-term development of railways in Serbia, hence international traffic, which can become one of the future generators of Serbia's growth and development, the reason why we want to improve these legal solutions is that our foreign policy priority is number one, the accession of the community of European peoples, i.e. the EU, and the condition for this is the adoption of legal flows of the EU, so-called. kicomonter, which we are working on through the amendments and additions of these laws, because we further harmonize our legislation with the relevant EU directives, the European Commission, the European Council, all depends on who adopted them, or on the European Parliament. In that sense, I welcome that the Ministry has sent both of these laws to the European Commission for an opinion and, of course, I welcome that all those objections received from the European Commission have been incorporated into these laws. Thanks to this, we have the support of the European Commission for these amendments and amendments to the law and we have, after all, the support of our Office for European Integration. The full harmonisation of our legislation from this area is expected by 2017, until it is time for all the necessary sublegal acts to be adopted. I'd like to say a few more words about something that so far none of my colleagues have mentioned, and I think it's very important because it shows seriousness in the approach, to say, the legislative obligations of the Ministry we're talking about. So, from the moment these laws were passed, which is 2013, it started with monitoring, i.e. monitoring the application, i.e. with the possible finding of any shortcomings that exist in these laws. I think it's one of the right ways to deal with legislation in the Republic of Serbia, if we think we have at least those foundations right for the house we're trying to build. After that, there was the establishment of working groups involving experts from all possible areas that tangled these bill proposals. People who were not members of the working groups were also consulted, five public debates were organised for one law and another, therefore, a fully democratic procedure was respected, and that is how we should really work and I think that we as MPs should welcome it publicly. Just a few more words, regarding the most important changes, although this has already been discussed by colleagues and the goals to be achieved by these laws. So, in addition to further harmonisation with EU directives, I would say that it is very important, there was not a word, something that has also been done through amendments and additions to these two laws that make up the whole in a certain way, which is a better redistribution of jurisdiction between these two laws, and so security is, I say, dislocated and more placed in the jurisdiction of the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, which is logical. On the other hand, the issue of crossing the railways and roads has been transferred, under the allegations, to the jurisdiction of the Railways Act. Furthermore, with these amendments and amendments to the law, we have implemented the harmonisation of these laws with the laws that have been passed in the meantime, from 2013, let's say, the Law on Planning and Construction, which you, the Minister, have also proposed to this Assembly, which again refers to the issue of crossroads and railways. Furthermore, again one very important thing, which has not been mentioned so far, I would say particularly important, is the expansion of the detour, i.e. giving new responsibilities to the Railway Directorate, which is something that is in line with the best European practices. Furthermore, one again, on the appearance of a banal problem, and in fact a potentially extremely serious problem, which is a matter of criminal policy in relation to the safety of rail traffic, where certain interventions have also been carried out. Furthermore, something that is in previous legal proposals seems to me to be missed, and that is the issue of combined transport that is now being arranged and that is again something that is very important and which helps further improve rail traffic. The combined transport is, to direct citizens watching this transfer, combined transport represents one mix of rail transport and some other modes of traffic, and that's something that also has the potential to develop when we talk about rail traffic. Finally, the introduction of a contractual relationship between a government, i.e. an autonomous province, or local self-government, related to the use of a common infrastructure, i.e. the management of it, which involves certain compensation or compensation of costs if it is non-profitable shares. The goals that need to be achieved may not be at first sight the most important, but always the most important goal of increasing the safety of rail traffic we had the problem of being certain irresponsible persons, I would say in the first place, except that they are criminal acts, stealing parts of some very important, on the tracks, which were a serious danger to the safety of traffic on our tracks. I don't think even, all happiness has ever happened to you. I'm afraid of what tragic consequences would be and how much then we'd be able to figure out what could happen when someone's acting so irresponsiblely. Furthermore, of course, more optimal use of railway infrastructure, which is related to these changes that I was talking about. Of course, the more rational business of the Serbia Railways company and, in the end, the increase in the efficiency and competitiveness of the entire rail system in Serbia and thus the future of the increase in competition. And finally, what my colleague said before me, completely integrates our railway sector into the European rail system. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36121	Thank you. The word has a minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36122	First, I want to thank you for your discussion of amendments and additions to these two laws and, of course, agreements. I totally agree with everything you've said, but I want to highlight one important thing, which is why we're doing only these amendments and additions to the law at all. We are working because we really want this percentage of rail transportation to increase in Serbia. With us, it's about 30%, it can and should be more, and I'll also inform you that in 2015, by the quality of the railway infrastructure, which, of course, far from still being at the best, and hopefully it will be, Serbia has moved to the world list by as many as 19 places. We were 102 today, we're 83. So when we compare 2012 today, 2015. So we can do, and that's precisely because so much investment has been launched, that is, the money that the state has defined, has been in debt, has guaranteed certain loans, in the last year and a half of the railways, along with the Serbian government has really pushed it the most it could and in that sense we now have new trains, of course, but we have, above all, a better infrastructure on certain shares. I'm not saying it's enough. This year, we will modernise around 130km of railway, and I believe that in the years ahead of us, in the next two, three years, we will be able to talk about a completely different railway network and that will be one of the reasons for, say, the company "Serbian train" to have much better characteristics, either "Serbian infrastructure" or "Serbian cargo" because we will simply do everything to increase and transport passengers. And the karma. Here's just enough to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36123	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic, representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36124	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I think it is useful that today they are on the agenda of laws that should improve the situation in Serbian railways and we will all agree that it is far from ideal. As an MP, I must admit, first of all, one objection to giving you, I failed to read the reasoning of the law to understand the reasons for the passing of this law by emergency procedure. The law itself speaks of the fact that the public debate existed and that it ended in December of last year, so I believe that this law has long been more or less ready and that there was no need for MPs to discuss it, using this parliamentary possibility to debate by emergency procedure, primarily by looking at the reasons. You're saying here that the consequences of lagging behind, not restructuring, out-of-date organisation and inefficient railways feel like they're bypassing Corridor 10. I don't see how these eight days as if we had discussed this law in a regular procedure, it could have affected all these problems, or that the adoption of this law today by an emergency procedure would remove these reasons. I am saying this in principle because this Parliament, as a rule, adopts the laws by emergency procedure, and that is not good. It's not good, because then MPs can't prepare in a good way. It sometimes happens that laws pass without public debate, and then it finds either the president of the state that they are unconstitutional, or the Constitutional Court estimates that individual members are unconstitutional and all of this does not contribute to creating a better environment in which Serbia's economy and economy will develop. Since this law, I really don't see those reasons, my question is why is it done and I don't think there was any need for it? What was interesting to me by reading the explanation are some of the formulations concerning the existing Law on Railways that is now being amended, and it is said that the law on these amendments and amendments corrects the errors and indeterminates of the applicable law, that the shortcomings of the law have been found. So, I remind you, the law was passed just over two years ago, I don't know if there was a colleague Mrkonjic, who was then a minister, explaining the law, whether he now agrees with all these findings on the current bill. In any case, what is a fact and what is said in the reasoning is that it is necessary to modernise the law and here we agree and that the majority of these members of the law that is being amended are further harmonising with European directives. What is unfortunately missed, for example, is the harmonisation in the work that needs to ensure independence in the work of directorship and transparency in the choice that needs first of all to guarantee expertise. In this table that is put there, regarding compliance with European directives, it is said that this part is not in conformity with the law and that it will be harmonised in the future, which means that we will probably have amendments and amendments to the law again in some period, but I think we are missing the opportunity, given that there are already these directives, which are a little more recent in 2013, in 2014, the EU, but that this opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity with these amendments and the addition of the laws, so that with all the current directives that we know exist, we can comply with our law. This part of which I was just talking about, related to the work of the Directorate, its independence in relation to other state bodies, this part of the coordination that was done, was done for the director and directorship where the law is now adding one position to define that at least one year after it was resolved with its duties, the person who performed that function cannot work in legal persons who were users or co-operated with the directorship. The European Directive says that this deadline cannot be less than a year, but our Law on Preventing and Combating Corruption speaks of a period of two years that officials who leave indefinitely for two years cannot, in some related action, carry out activities. I think that, I say, this European directive is talking about a minimum deadline, and I think that we should have agreed with our laws that exist and you will have our amendment where that deadline is proposed to be for two years, simply to comply with the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. What my colleague was saying from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, I agree, that is the principle, this law adds several members who regulate works on railway infrastructure at railway crossings, underpass construction, overpasses, and then define which cases, which are responsible for covering the costs of these works. Our opinion is that the principle that the law recognises, which is that most of the time, and most of the time, this cost is reduced either to local self-government or to economic persons who would use a certain infrastructure, whether the railway, whether or not travel, in these papers, that all these costs, that these costs are transferred from infrastructure manager to someone else, we think it's not good. Simply, he spoke about it, the question is whether local self-government has enough resources today to, say, provide a sufficient number of spring crossings. Unfortunately, even in this year, we had accidents on the unmarked, and several cases at marked road crossings. The question is in the future if it is left to local self-government, whether security will be increased, whether these crossings will be arranged. We've put a few amendments to define that, so the infrastructure manager to whom and when a new facility is built remains a management, it's the one to bear the costs of construction. In particular, Article 49a states that the cost of ensuring safe and uninterrupted traffic at the road crossing is borne by the travel infrastructure manager, i.e. by the applicant. So we don't know who decides whether it's going to be the controller or the applicant, and to what extent and at what rate, if they finance it together, on what criteria are they going to decide? We find it not good that the laws contain such vague formulations, that it is necessary to clearly define who is in charge of what, who is in charge and the costs. We believe it is necessary in this particular case, in this law that in the largest number of cases, and we will also see through our amendments, these costs are put on the burden of the railway infrastructure manager. I must admit, these other members, I say, are mostly some technical changes and alignment, what you have called removing the perceived shortcomings, we have given several amendments, there remains hope that the amendments and additions of this law will give the effects of the fellow MPs, which is that the Serbian Railways will cease to be a burden on the Serbian state's neck, that they will no longer subsidise from the budget and become a profitable company as soon as possible. I don't share that optimism that will come up so quickly, but all these reasons for that to happen exist. Serbia is on Corridor 10. It is amazing that today, more than once, this is said in public, the average speed on Serbian railways at a level of 100 years ago, and we can, of course, talk about who is responsible for it now is more or less, it is a fact and we need to see how that can change. You were talking about how the government took certain loans to improve rail infrastructure, first of all, how it should only be in this year 130 kilometers of railways to restore and that's good things. You said at the beginning, it seems to me, that there are over three thousand tracks in Serbia, so that 130 kilometers is, unfortunately, a very small part. I think it is necessary to discuss both the Assembly and the public on the vision of Serbian railways, the development, whether the projects currently being developed by the Railways are the most meaningful at the moment and whether, as you said in the law, it will lead to the shortest period of time not to be bypassed, as you said here in the law, to seek an emergency procedure to be bypassed by rail transport because we have an inadequate situation in Serbian railways. We, as a parliamentary group, will support this law in principle. He doesn't bring anything controversial. But I think it was possible to further improve and agree with the European directives, and we remain to believe that the application of the law and the work of the ministry and other legal persons established by this law, which allow for better work, will lead to improvements in Serbian railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36125	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36126	First, I want to thank you for everything you've said and explain a few things. First of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, to explain what an emergency procedure means, so that Serbian citizens do not think that this law, and one other proposal of this law, and ultimately, all the laws that this ministry is doing are not seen anywhere. So these are laws that have passed public debates, not just these two draft laws, but really every law that this ministry does. At times, these public discussions lasted several months, such as the amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. I'd say it was the longest public hearing in nearly six months. You're right about these laws, especially when you're talking about one of the laws. One of the laws was fully prepared, and the other law was not fully prepared, and we felt that it was a whole and that they should go together and that is one of the reasons why they have now come to the agenda. Whether it could have been eight days more or less, maybe you're right, I agree, we'll make sure the next time it doesn't, that those eight days we call an emergency procedure, which is that MPs get eight days so they can look at the laws. But I also underline that these laws have passed a public debate, that they have been on not only the websites, but that we have been to eight cities in Serbia, that working groups that have worked on the law and all the questions we have received have, therefore, received not only from members of the working group, colleges, then many other experts who deal with this job. Everyone had the opportunity to make their contribution to make these laws better, which doesn't mean that now in the debate and the amendments that MPs make, we don't make these laws, we make the laws even better. Then, when you mention the Railway Directorate, which I think is very important, first of all, the Directorate is independent. It was an independent regulatory body formed already in 2005. When we talk about that deadline of a year, which is the difference and why it's been a year in this law, and we had a proposal on the Anti-Corruption Act, where it's been said that two years, the one who worked in the Railways Directorate, for example, on your proposal, could not work in any other place under the Anti-Corruption Act. What's the difference? Under the Anti-Corruption Act, whoever it is could work at the Railways, but could not work in other private companies. Under this law he can't work at all in the area of rail transport for a year. So we set the deadline to be a little smaller, because then practically everything that's related to rail transport can't work, which still doesn't mean that maybe with an adequate explanation, we don't think again about whether we need to increase that deadline. So I don't have any dilemma about that being a thing, we can think about that too. You also mentioned Corridor 10, our priorities and our position and on the other hand the issue of local self-government, whether they could possibly participate in co-financing or whether they were dealing with certain routes that might not be worth it today. What is the priority of the railroad today and all the companies that were created? To determine exactly what the priority routes are, what the strategic interests of the state are, therefore, it is certainly Corridor 10 and calling the Western Balkan countries, and that those routes that we consider may not be within the priority group, are indeed given the possibility to local self-governments to either make a contract with the Railways, with one of the railway companies, or to offer it to a private operator who will do so. Do local self-government have money or no money? I think it's high time that priorities were identified everywhere and that the budget was structured, so, as the state is doing at the republican level, so the local self-government had to define what they would do in the years ahead. There is no more that the state can stand to finance all railways, even those that are almost passed by by no train. On the other hand, the question of our speed, and you're right, but 120 kilometers this year, 500 kilometers will be completed at an average speed of 100 to 120 kilometers per hour in the next three years. I don't know why it couldn't have gone any faster before, I don't know why the loans were standing. Only the Russian loan cost three years. We just started a Russian loan. From that Russian loan, we are already opening certain railways that already have a speed of 100 kilometers. This is a process, and it can't be over at once, it can't be over in a year or two, but I'm sure if this continues, at this rate, and with the investment, and also with the reform of the Railways, that we can in some years, two, three next year, already have a completely different look at our rails and infrastructures and trains themselves, and that, by the way, we have an increase in passenger transport and especially freight, which for now makes one profit in the railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36127	Thank you. Mr Jovan Markovic, an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36128	Dear citizens of Serbia, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, today we have the opportunity to talk about very important laws and, as far as DS is concerned, I think that with the proposal for more than 20 amendments that we have put into this law, in the light of this law, we have made it important to work on the law itself, but we have also given meaning to how bad these proposals are. I think it is inadmissible that only two minutes in its opening statement explain the reasons why this law is being considered today, given that following the analysis carried out in the application of this law in the previous year, there has been a conclusion that there has been a series of failures, a series of things to be changed and that it has been proposed today to change from 111 points of this bill 45 members. In light of the reasons for the adoption of the law of May 2013, it is said that the main objective of the adoption of this law is to achieve the best and more efficient conditions of rail operation, the independent business of railway undertakings, the creation of conditions for the emergence of several railway undertakings, the separation of the railway system to various systems, etc., and says - in part, compliance with EU directives. Later, it explains that during a one-year period of monitoring and control of the application of this law, there has been found to be a lot of failures, that the effects have not been achieved and that it is necessary to access the adoption of a new law, all with a view to more effective application, etc. Furthermore, explaining the problems to be addressed, it is said that following the entry into force of the current Law on Railways, various problems have arisen that have resulted in the unsatisfactory effects of applying this law on the ground, on railways, and the most drastic cases are the inability to apply some of the provisions of this law. This conclusion, which is here in reason, raises the question and dilemmas – was there a vision and was there a clear plan in 2013 when the law we are considering today was proposed? It is obvious that there was neither vision nor plan at that time, and that this is due to the very bad relations, i.e. the poor application of the law in the previous year and a half. Furthermore, in explaining the reasons for the law's adoption, it is said that not passing the law after an emergency procedure would lead to significant adverse consequences for rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia. This directly coincides with Minister Mihajlovic's opening statement, which says, in the two minutes that she explained the law, that the main objective of adopting this law is to continue reforming and that everything we have done in the previous period remains under the obligation to confirm, continue, with the aim of making the railways more efficient, etc. If we analyse this opening part of the Minister's statement and we analyse these arguments that we have received for the reasons of the adoption of the new law, we will see that this is not about the same things and that it was very important and necessary for the Minister to explain in detail the reasons and effects of the application of this law, i.e. expectations of the application of this law. What is essential is in an analysis of the effects of the application of this law, where it is clearly said that it is necessary not only to comply with this law with EU directives, but rather to remedy the shortcomings which, above all, relate to the reduced number of passengers and the reduced number of goods that were as the effects of the application of the 2013 law. So in this analysis, you clearly and unequivocally said that the law, which was adopted in 2013, had a series of shortcomings, you confirmed by the fact that out of 111 members, which are in this law, you are changing 45. We are now coming to the conclusion that, together with your associates, you believe that the changes, or changes of these 45 members, will have a significant impact on achieving the goals that you are later talking about? I'm telling you that there are three basic things, namely the changes that are covered by these members. First of all, they're related to some grammatical changes, languages, lexics, etc., and that's about 50% of those 45 members that change. If we look at it that way, do you think that those 20 and some of the members that relate to these changes can essentially fix some of the things that you're planning here in law? The second part that is very important is the issue of licences and the question of the further role of the Railways Directorate, which refers to Article 10, 11, 12, 13, etc. According to our assessment, it is inadmissible to move towards reforms, to move into some new models of rail and large system work in such a way as to virtually exclude the ability to control the work of these companies, which are now being established, and also to control the work of some future companies. This applies to those you plan to introduce later, because here one of the goals is to break the monopoly, introduce markets, competition, etc. We believe that part should remain as it was in the previous law. Part three is just about that idea of monopoly, market. I'd like to warn you about all the amendments we've given as a parliamentary group, especially in the 88th Law, regarding these procedures. So, Article 88 of the Law, in our opinion, directly undermines all the basic positive intentions of this law and objectives concerning the efficiency, transparency and procedure of law enforcement, in particular the Public Procurement Act. This member, a respected minister, in his opening part, in the first article, says that contracts, etc., are signed on the basis of a decision by the competent authority on the direct award of the public transport obligation contract. So I am alive interested in what is meant by "direct decision and contract" on the engagement of some companies, companies, are they from the public sector or are they from the private sector? We believe that if you set up criteria and the market, this position, or this point, should be deleted, in particular what is said in the second point, based on a public competition open to all railway undertakings, etc., opens up the possibility of contracts being concluded for 15 years, and in accordance with the principles discussed here. What is questionable is that you, in the follow-up, in the third and fourth positions, are able to extend the term from 15 to half of the contract signed in both direct contracts and in this part of the public competition, if certain conditions and certain criteria are met. This means that contracts can also apply at 22, 23, etc., and you have not defined the criteria of what that actually means to meet these conditions and that someone will replace the monopoly of state-owned enterprises in some other way. In this case, only a picture of the one who will be on behalf of you will be able to sign contracts with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, if the aim is to make a transparent procedure, we believe that this position 2 or point 2) should be maintained, that it should be possible to sign contracts for 10 years, that these partners should be obliged to report on an annual basis to confirm the ministry or government. I think you, a respected minister, have missed the chance to get a little more serious involved. I believe that with your authority, you were able to correct all these shortcomings that concern members who are scheduled for replacement. We have made a lot of suggestions concerning whether it is one term or another in some members, so through amendments we have proposed replacements, i.e. changes. You will see in our amendments that we have just pointed out that in one, two or three members where you say or use one term, say, "measured", and in another member you have used the term "measuredly", that it is not harmonised, so attention should be paid to those amendments that we wanted to talk about. The question is raised here and it is clear that in principle this law is adapted to your vision that in the coming period this work of the companies, four companies of the railways, infrastructure, "Serbian Kargo" and "Serbian train", but there are no clear criteria, clear objectives are missing and clear procedures are lacking concerning these contracts and rights to the monopoly. What DS specifically wants to point out is this part that relates to further engagement of these systems. We have since a few days ago a very interesting interview in the daily paper, not to mention which, which concerns the position of the railway union and which begins with one sentence that I think we can say defines all these relationships and that it paints well the state of both your visions and plans, and even this law, the application of this law in the coming period. This sentence says: "We have concluded them in haste, and they will repent." In three newly founded societies, Kargo Serbia, the "Serbian train" and "Infrastructure" have total chaos. In the follow-up to this interview, and of course in the conversation with people who are employed by the Railways, who are members of the union, we have been given the impression that you have very hidden intentions and about the status of employees and the layoff of people in the next period from the Railways. According to the union's estimates, we're coming to the realization that the transformation of this system will result in the firing of about 6,000 people. If we just put a little film back and analyze what happened in the period from 2012 on the employment of people in "The Railway" we bring ourselves first into the dilemma, does this mean that you, over 5,500 people who are employed, first of all, from SNS to "The Railway" from 2012, will now be admitted to work, but at the same time 6,000 people who have been working there for years will probably mark them as party insubordinations, etc., and leave out of work, (Zoran Babić, from place: And they are from DS. Those who earn Mr. Chairman should have the patience to hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36129	Please, Mr. Markovic, if you were on the subject, you wouldn't be throwing yourself away. So, please, I ask the Members of Parliament not to receive and you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36130	Mr. Chairman, since I expected this kind of reaction from Mr. Babic and your reaction, I have another speech hidden in my left pocket, so if you want me to tell you what you like to hear, I can do it, but it's not the interest of the citizens of Serbia or this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36131	Mr. Markovic, I'd like to ask you again to come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36132	So don't take my time and direct my story in the interest of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36133	You're taking yourself away, because a few minutes ago you didn't have a problem, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36134	So I'm particularly interested in a member of the 51st Honored Minister, who talks about the status of the Railway Directorate, and we'll probably talk about it in part when we talk about the amendments. What I think today, despite these incursions by the chairman and Mr Babic, is that you are obliged to respond to the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of western Serbia, Užica, is this intention to transfer the Sargan 8 to the infrastructure and instead to be in the area where it is engaged in the transport of passengers, transfer them to another system, although I am aware that there are incomes there and that you have replaced all those people who have been persistently, hardworking and dedicated to the completion of this project, that you have replaced them and brought some of your listeners and staff who think that this profit, which is achieved on an annual basis, needs to focus that profit in some other direction, to consider that decision and to pay particular attention to that sector. Namely, the Wet Mountain and the whole area of Tara, Zlatibor, just after the construction of the Chargan 8th and in the course of that construction began to live. That's where people started coming back, that's where the investment started. There, only a few people were able to take the first step by their work, pawnage, and effort. Later, Mr. Kusturica came, later projects developed, people were later employed, but if you cancel it, and if you look only through money and interest, if money is directed or sucked out of that area into other missed projects, you're doing a lot of damage to the whole area. I was in the Wet Mountain two months ago, on the railroad, there the grass started to grow, there it began to grow weeds. There's people you've delegated to do these jobs that don't do their job. There was a drastic decline in the number of passengers, no more talk about the Chargan's eight being connected to the Republika Srpska. A project to build a narrow track line towards the Kremni, Biosa and Uzic has been stopped. I know you may not have time, even if you're flying a helicopter, going through the works, seeing what's going on here, but from three years ago everything's stopped, nothing's done anymore. This project has come in a state that you will soon be able to stop the job completely, that there are no more guests there. At the annual level, 100,000 people used the services of that transport. Our attempt to narrow the track from Wet Up with Visegrad was our attempt to help these people live as well as they could. Mr. Chairman, do I have more time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36135	You've got two minutes to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36136	Let's keep it for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36137	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36138	I must admit that, since I am often in parliament, because a lot of laws suggest this ministry, every time you start to explain a certain law in front of the DS parliamentary group, or you have certain comments on that, every time they're exactly the same sentences, even though the laws are completely different. Some about planning and building, some about railing, some about water transport, but you have identical sentences that I wrote down last time and now. So I would ask you to at least make such an effort to really be interested in the laws that are ahead of you, because they can really bring good to Serbia. I'll remind you in 1884, when the first track was made from Belgrade to Nis then its average speed was 40km per hour. When the SNS made up the government in 2012 and 2013 respectively, you left us railways that went below 30 kilometers per hour. So, since 1884 when it was 40 kilometers per hour, the DS has left below 30 kilometers per hour. So every story about how something isn't done now, first look at what you've done. I'll tell you what we did in a year and a half. In a year and a half, Serbia moved 19 places on the world list by infrastructure. So, just because we started all the investments that we could, precisely because we're modernising the railways that are now going to one part of Serbia already on average 100km per hour. I'm not saying it's perfect, I'm not saying it's great, it can be better, but we did it in a year and a half. For all ten years of government as far as you were concerned, you put us in a situation that no one would get on any train in Serbia, because first of all there were no trains, they looked terrible, not to mention catastrophicly, and the speed was below 30 kilometers per hour, on some sections of 15 kilometers per hour. That's what the railroads looked like when we came to power. It looks completely different today. When you say we shouldn't have changed this law, I think you should know one thing. Transport, especially rail transport is a live transport. This means as dozens of directives are passed in the EU, not annually but monthly, so it is logical that Serbia also agrees with these directives and has modern laws. That's why we're changing this law. I don't understand a sentence about hidden intentions at all. I don't know what that means. Maybe that's how you functioned and worked, so you kept some hidden intentions behind the law and reform. It's very clear with us. In a year and a half, we were able to complete the first stage of rail reform. The railway today has three companies and a holding company that will last limited. The railway today has "Serbian Kargo", "Serbian train" and "Serbian infrastructure". Serbia's railway is already looking completely different today and all these trade unions have not been released. For your information, there is a permanent committee in the Serbian government that is being held on the subject of reformation. All union representatives are on the committee. Not only that, we have no fear of talking to people. After the first phase, we were at the Railways and talked to the railway workers openly, as should be done. They know we're working together, but we're in a partnership relationship and we're doing everything we can to make sure that the railway really takes primate compared to road traffic, which is unfortunately not yet available today. Also, I don't understand what it means to kill the project? You said, "The Chargan Eight" and not to let the project die." If the project dies, it can't be done. All good projects that bring good to Serbia will work, only something else can die. So I hope that the amendments you've given have more substance and all that you really want to achieve and improve this law. We will take due care of that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36139	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Do I have the right to those two minutes? You have at the end of the debate. When the list of speakers is exhausted, then you can at the end of the debate. The word has a folk MP Stefana Miladanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36140	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues from the ministry and fellow MPs, for the SPS group of MPs, traffic is one of three development priorities of Serbia, and we therefore pay special attention to all laws that are within the area of traffic on the agenda. In this context, we have also considered these draft laws, which aim to develop rail traffic. According to the current Transport Development Strategy for 2010-2015, a significant place has a rail traffic as a type of traffic that has significant and economic and ecological advantages compared to other modes of traffic and, of course, a greater efficiency of mass transport of passengers and goods. The Republic of Serbia is a significant hub of Europe and it is precisely this geostrategic position that Serbia should and should be the basis for much more intensive traffic development. Serbia is on Corridor 10, not only by road but also by rail corridor that connects southern and western Europe, and this potential Serbia must take advantage of, especially given that rail traffic is one of the cheapest modes of transport. When we adopted the new Law on Railways in 2013, then the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the professional public, was aware that the effects of applying the new law would be visible after a few years precisely because this law had brought basic newspapers, we can say one of the modern concepts, exactly in line with this strategy. By adopting this law, we broke up with a traditional model of railway organisation, which meant inefficiency and incompetence. The new law also provided formal conditions for the new concept of governance and development of the railway system, and the essence of the new concept is an efficient, innovative and safe railway. Another essential paper was the separation of infrastructure and services on the railways itself, starting with modern practice in developed countries of the world, which is that the development of railways and its business can only be improved by separate infrastructure management and two works. It is important to point out in the end that this law was the basis for the restructuring that was currently under way, the Railways of Serbia Action Society, which managed the railways on behalf of the state. The transformation of the existing governance system is one of the requirements of both the World Bank and the EU, and the goal was to establish a rational, modern and sustainable system, and of course it is important for us, and that was what my colleagues said, that the system should be competitive when it comes to international transport. The railway restructuring process formed three new companies, the Infrastructure Company, the Serbia train and Kargo and the existing company a.d. "The Railway of Serbia", which was left to exist as part of the system and will manage, as far as we realized by the railways' assets. The formation of these companies provides a chance for the state to finally show what the railways mean for it and what it really wants from the railways, and these new companies have opened up the possibility of finally developing all systems and services on the railway itself on a healthy basis. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that such an organised railway system can and should provide conditions for the engagement of all available human resources, especially in view of ambitious development goals. The changes and additions we are discussing today are exactly in line with this vision and the strategic objectives of the Government of Serbia and are a step forward in terms of improving conditions for establishing the modern concept of development, which I am talking about. An important change in this law is that the Republic of Serbia retains responsibility for the management and development of railway infrastructure. The separation of the work of management from services will certainly make the systems more efficient and therefore more economical, and that certainly means reducing budget expenditure. The law introduces the payment of compensation for the use of railway infrastructure for carriers, which will make the controller its own revenues and significantly disburse the budget. What the state must provide is public transport to its citizens and, if there is a need for a line of public interest, it also subsidises, of course, taking care of unnecessary costs which in previous years have been sufficient. There are several new provisions in the proposal that have been adopted by the Railway Safety and Interoperability Act. The papers are also provisions concerning the granting of a legal framework already existing practices according to which local self-governments, but other interested entities can build and provide passages, overpasses, underpasses and so on in the territory, with the consent of railway infrastructure managers. These changes and additions address the issues of deadline procedures for access to rail infrastructure, and are closer to defining the work carried out by the Railways Directorate. Also, the Law on the Security and Interoperability of Railways extends the competences of the Directorate. The Directorate shall receive new powers from the adoption of regulations, through the issuing of licences and certificates, whichever is the case of a single regulatory and control body. Although in the Law on the Security of Interoperability of Railways many members are changing. Some colleagues have talked about it, most of these provisions contain changes in terms and most of them are in line with EU directives. The law made more related and logical integration of concepts and harmonised the terms of the Law on Railways and the Law on Interoperability of Railways. Further clarifications have also been introduced for the staff working in the system, whether by train or by static staff, and there is a need for the unification of provisions relating to the intersection of roads and tracks. I have one supplement that's important to the general public, which is to tighten the criminal provisions for natural persons that threaten railway safety by stealing, since we are witnesses to how much damage these thefts have done and directly affect traffic safety. All the solutions, all the changes in this proposal, are aimed at developing and improving the safety of rail traffic and both proposals, as I said, are in line with the strategy and objectives set by the state when it comes to the development of overall traffic in 2010. What we hope as a parliamentary group is that the strategy for the next five years will actually be the continuity of these goals. When it comes to agreements, we have three agreements on the agenda. An agreement on international combined transport between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Slovakia, signed on 1 December 2014. The provisions of this Agreement refer to international combined transport, and this agreement precisely points to the development of railways, i.e. the need to develop railways, since this intermodal transport is mostly carried out by rail. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Hungary on Road Transport of Travelers and Things, it was signed last year in Belgrade. The provisions of this Agreement relate to road transport of passengers and things between States of foreign Contracting Parties, transport of passengers and things in transit through territory of foreign Contracting States, etc. The agreement ceases to apply two agreements between the National Republic of Hungary and the 1966 SFRY and another 1962 agreement. The last agreement is another one in a series of agreements ratified by the parliament when it comes to bilateral relations between the RS and the Republic of Tunisia. It's an agreement between the two governments on road transport of passengers and stuff. In the end, I'd like to repeat once again that traffic is extremely important to us. We consider it a great development opportunity for Serbia. As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I say we will vote in favour of all proposals that are on the agenda today and this occasion I will answer the question of my colleague who is currently not in the O.R., which is that our former minister supports all the proposals, as he said at the meeting of the Traffic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36141	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Mrs Katarina Rakic. Here you go, Mrs. Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36142	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministerial, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to say that today there are two rail traffic laws on the agenda, and what first associates me when the rail traffic is mentioned are fast tracks, and then I remember the fact that our trains on those tracks are chasing all 30 kilometers per hour. Certainly, the situation in Serbia's railways is not ideal, a global report on Serbia's 2014 competitiveness, which placed Serbia 83rd of possible 104-ranked states, which is certainly much better than in 2012, when we were 102, means almost, and lastly. As we already know, the total length of the railway network in Serbia is 3809km, which is certainly not bad data and it is a really good fact that we have such a long road network. However, what is devastating is that the age of that network is over 40 years. What's even worse than that is that we use electrical equipment that's about as old as it is between 30 and 40 years old. That's why we have a situation where over 62% of the total length of the railroad trains can't move at a speed greater than 60 kilometers per hour, that speed has to be drastically lower. What's devastating is that only 3% of the total length of the railroad trains can move at a higher speed than 100 kilometers per hour. However, these are not all bad data concerning Serbia's railways, I will not list them all now, but, certainly, I personally, as one of the reasons for this situation in the railways can see no domestic behaviour, which has happened in this area decades ago. Also, when we look at the historical facts, we can notice a huge and constant difference in what funds were paid into the railways compared to the ones the railways really needed. As I have already said, the total length of the railway work in Serbia is 3809km, and based on this length, it is realistic to restore about 190km of rail annually. This in previous years, not that it did not happen, but based on data obtained from the Serbian railway between 1980 and 2014, only 18% were invested in Serbia's railways compared to what the railways really needed to simply function normally. It's very difficult when you've been neglecting something for years, you just don't invest it, it's very hard to put something like that on healthy feet, and here, according to the railway report, something that is Serbia's railways, which has been neglected in Serbia for 34 years, simply 82% of the funds that should have been paid into the railways, someone might have used for something else. However, if only the railways in Serbia were something that had been neglected for years, something that had not been worked on, it might not have been so terrible. However, many things have been neglected in Serbia in recent years, many of which, consciously or unconsciously, have been ruined, and this government led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic has managed to put her on her good feet. The best example of this is our national airline, which from one loser, who has been ruined for years, consciously or unconsciously, in just a year and a half since its founding, managed to build a leader in the region in the area of air traffic. They say it's easy to be a good host when the house is full. However, not only did this government find an empty house, but the house was also destroyed, robbed, and charged with loans and various loans, as if it were the best position in the world. What I would agree with, Serbia is indeed in a good position, in a geographically good position, which we must certainly take advantage of. However, with the bad infrastructure we currently have, we come to Serbia being visited by many. What has been happening in the past few years are many activities in rail transport and this activity in many areas, in the legislative area, in the area of the implementation of various projects, as well as in the reform of the railway system itself. As for the reform of the railway system itself, it has stemmed from the system laws we passed in 2013, however, Serbia has also taken on such a commitment in the EU accession process. The reconstruction of the railway was certainly one of the basic conditions for investing in this area, because investment in railways as it was before, simply, would not have been an effect, nor would it produce any positive result. As far as rail reform itself is concerned, it is based on the separation of enterprises that will manage infrastructure, i.e. manage infrastructure and enterprises that will carry out the transport of goods and people. The competent ministry worked together in collaboration with people from the IMF and the World Bank in previous years, and we came to the conclusion that three new companies were founded, i.e. three new railway companies, namely "Infrastructure of Railway" a.d., which will manage public railway infrastructure, then "Serbia train" a.d., a passenger company and "Serbia Kargo" a.d., a cargo company. In addition, the company "Serb Railway", which will take care of the property, remained. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a decision on the formation of these companies on July 2nd, and new directors were appointed on August 10th and the operational start of these companies' work began. The only one who will control these companies is their only founder and only shareholder, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is the goal of one such establishment of these companies, is to establish a regime of impact and that "Serb Railways" from 1 January 2016 is a healthy leg, which means – funds for these companies will be planned in the budget, but these companies will only receive those funds if they do, or if they provide services they are required of. This is nothing new, this is a system that has been applied for a long time in all developed EU countries. In addition to reforming the railway, as I have already said, this government has worked on many infrastructure projects and I simply have an obligation, given how long this area has been ignored, to mention ten projects currently under way in the Republic of Serbia. These projects are IBRD 3, the value of this project is 100m euros, and then Project IBRD 4, the value of this project is also 100m euros, then Project IBRD 5, the value of this project is 95m euros, then Project IIB 5, the value of this project is 80m euros, then the Russian loan, the value of this project is 800m euros, then the project "Belgrade on Water". In addition, we have projects that are realised from the funds of the Kuwaiti Fund, then a project of reconstruction and modernisation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, construction of the Belgrade-Tirana railway, construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo railway. This is ten projects currently active, currently under way. As you can see, it's billions of euros that have been invested, and as I said years ago, more precisely for decades, for 34 years 82% less than the railway needed to operate in one normal way, and we can say that in this way the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry has made a huge step, which is certainly shown by raising 19 places on the list. Moreover, of course, much has been done in a legislative way. In addition, the government passed two system laws in this area, and I can say that only during 2015 have we passed three laws in the area of rail traffic – the Law on Contracts in Railway Traffic, the Law on Wires and the Transport of Persons, the Law on the Research of Accidents and Serious Accidents in Air, Water and Railway Traffic. In addition, the ministry has also adopted three regulations and two regulations, and in this part we can freely say that a huge step has been made. Of course, analysis in the ministry's work also shows good results. As regards the transport of goods in 2013 compared to 2012, a 10.1% increase was achieved. Also, in 2014 there was an additional increase of 3.6%. In the first four months of 2015, there was an increase in the volume of goods transported by 3.2% compared to the same period of the previous year, and as regards the transport of passengers in 2013 compared to 2012, an increase of 8.9% was achieved. As far as these two legislative proposals from the railway area are concerned, what is important is to say that their basic texts were brought in 2013 and that it is necessary for them to be brought back in the package because they need to be synchronised. As we have already heard, there has been a very broad public debate in eight cities across Serbia. All those who were interested were able to make their remarks and many of these remarks were included in the text of the bill. Also, what is important, these legislative proposals do not require planned funds, i.e. there is no need to plan funds in the budget. In addition to these two draft laws, we have three international agreements on the agenda today. The first among them is the Agreement on International Combined Transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Slovakia. This agreement was signed on 1 December 2014. The signed parties seek to improve the trade in goods using an environmentally acceptable mode of transport and want to make joint efforts to stimulate this type of transport. In addition, we have a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, as well as an agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on road transport of passengers and things. Certainly, the conclusion of these two agreements provides a legal basis for improving the two countries' trade and economic co-operation. From all I have stated, as regards these two laws that are currently on the agenda of the session, it is very clear and it is very clear that they mainly aim to contribute to the economic and trade development of Serbia, and on behalf of that, I call on you all to support these laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36143	I thank you, Mrs. Rakic. We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common principled single search. Mr Markovic, you have the right, but only when the order of MPs is finished by signing up for the word and when we give the word to the authorised representatives who have time left, so you can't right now. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36144	Thank you. Since the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Railways today is a priority, and we have heard a lot about it, I will take the opportunity to say just a few things when it comes to the 4th point of the agenda, more specifically the bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on road transport of passengers and things. Of course, because of the lack of time the parliamentary group has, I'm going to use the time just to touch one, but extremely important thing for the Westbok region, and not only for the Westbok region, but also for a very large number of people who are interested in this topic. Namely, it is about the reconstruction and construction of the Vrbas-Kula-Sombor road route, which, together with Mr Vladan Batic, I managed to bring into the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. This route has great importance for the development of the Western administrative district, but also beyond. I am particularly talking about the Western District, which is based on the Hungarian border and on the Croatian border. A long-standing non-investment in travel infrastructure in our municipality and county by the state has led us to become a appendix, although the town of Sombor and the surrounding area owns huge potentials. It is too high to waste words to explain how important this is for potential investors. By reconstructing this road route, Sombor municipality has the opportunity to create a serious development strategy, where with the help of this great leap, it would create a plan that would allow much greater use of the advantages that Sombor has. Our country is at the door of the EU, and Sombor is like an outstretched department and has to take advantage of it. Hungary is in the EU, Croatia is in the EU and regional co-operation through the use of various European funds is simply imposed on us as an imperative, and good roads are the basis of everything. Simply, I take every opportunity to talk about road traffic, and I think that the agreement between the Hungarian and the Republic of Serbia is a great opportunity to touch this topic, which unfortunately, many years ago, had no understanding of any of the ministers, more specifically with your predecessors. For many years back on the political key, huge financial resources went to Subotica, although across Somboro, the nearest direction towards Europe's countries, especially those cities where the diaspora is the most developed. It is this information that says that building this road route is a necessary need to overcome regional benefits, because it has great importance for people from all over Serbia who are directly or indirectly connected to our diaspora. Finally, construction and reconstruction of the Vrbas-Kula-Sombor road will greatly improve traffic safety. This may not be a direct topic that we could talk about today, but I think it's extremely important for at least one 500 thousand citizens who have for many years, I would even say for decades to expect someone to deal with this issue more seriously. That's why I'm taking the opportunity, Madam Minister, to have you present today on this subject once again and to ask you to take it seriously when your predecessors had no understanding of it. Now is the opportunity to talk again about Sombor Airport, but also border crossings, increasing the capacity of border crossings in Bezdan and Backo Breg and the possible opening of a new Ridjic and Gar would bring our villages back to life overnight. This is also an opportunity for our agrarian, an opportunity for better use of the Danube, an opportunity for banana tourism, as well as an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises that fill the budget, which are unfortunately big losers in the economic crisis. The fact is that certain opportunities are being opened, and to achieve them requires a little more determination and communication, which unfortunately was not the case in the past. I still believe that we will not miss this chance, believing in your energy and your desire to show and confirm the results, and that the realization of the same will not wait long, as was the case so far. Several times in the congregation, I spoke of how important this time was, as well as on the subject of retegorization of border crossings. At the level of local self-government for years, we have updated this story in an attempt to animated others. I can say that so far, only then Mayor Vrbasa and DS Member Dr Vidovic, and today's province MP and member of the SP, has had understanding and tried to raise this initiative to a higher level, but almost no minister has taken this topic seriously. Along with Mr. Vladan Batic, five years ago I submitted an amendment, and this amendment is building, i.e. The reconstruction this time entered the spatial plan. I repeat again, and I will repeat until someone takes me seriously, that it is the only prosperity and the only way that the Western District, along with Verbas, will come to life. When I talk about traffic, I can't help but feel that Sombor has an airport, I can't help but feel that there's an airport in Osijek where lou bone companies have managed to have flights to five of the largest cities in the EU twice a week for 50 to 60 euros. I am quite sure that building this road, given that Sombor is one rural part of our Serbia, where there is a large amount of agricultural land, would probably lead to someone seriously dealing with an airport through which to carry out cargo traffic wherever possible. I know that in this way I may have jumped a little bit out of the subject I'm talking about, all my predecessors were talking about rail traffic, but I think this is an extremely important question, not just for Sombor City, but for this whole time, as I said, the path of the diaspora that people are moving towards. Of course I have nothing against the citizens of Subotica, but I also want my Somboru well and that in any way we are no longer discriminated against, but that we have a chance like all other cities. That's the one that's a short cut, for those of you who don't know, more specifically, getting off the highway from Vrbasa to Somboro. I think the time has finally come for these topics to be a priority for the people of the Ministry and I believe you won't miss this chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36145	Thank you, Mr. Gojkovic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36146	Thank you, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I travel with Serbian railways, Madam Minister. Unlike you, I'm also paying tolls on the highways, even though you promised to pay the toll, and you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36147	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic. We're talking about the railroad, not the highways.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36148	Just for the sake of continuity, Mr. Becic. I want to point out that the harmonisation of the Law on Railways with European standards is important. The turnaround movement stands every time for the normal harmonisation of our legislation with the European one. But what the Turnover requires of you and for which it has the support of the citizens of Serbia, is that in real life, turn and change happens. Unfortunately, Mrs. Mihajlovic, there is no such thing. It's happening the other way around. It's happening the other way around. Mrs. Mihajlović, we're talking about the Law on Railways, did you know that the work on the Želje Bridge was suspended the other day? Do you know that people strike? So I'm going past that bridge. You can say whatever you want, but there's a colleague here who lives next door to that bridge. So, no more workers there. There's a worker. People strike because they haven't received their salaries since May. For three years practically there, or two years and something, there are works, regardless of what, as well as the city, both the province and the Republic have reconciled their obligation. What is it, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Who's obstructing you? Who's obstructing you? Why is such an important corridor not working? You know what I see on the train from Novi Sad to Belgrade, or, say, on the train from Novi Sad to Somboro, which I traveled a month ago? A colleague talked about it. Shinobus from Novi Sad to Somboro, I wanted to see with my son, he often travels, to see what a 100km-long ride with the Serbian railway looks like. You know what I saw, Mrs. Mihajlovic? What it says in Article 37, the tourist-museum railway, that is, without this - touristic. So it's a museum railroad. They're wagons that don't drive anywhere in the world anymore, not only are they old, but they're both abandoned and dirty. And you know what I see next to the railroad? Here, go, sit down once, you invited me to open work on the Jell-O Bridge, and here I invite you to take the train from Belgrade to Novi Sad. You know what's waiting for you in New Belgrade? You're waiting for weeds to lift asphalt, concrete slabs, uncut grass, abandoned railroads, abandoned stations. These trains are not only driven by poor citizens, as practice became for Serbian railways, both teachers and students and people who usually drive European railways read the book, etc. But here, unfortunately, with these railways, they drive three, four or five times longer. I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, when it comes to this law – will he change this state from tomorrow? I'd be willing to vote if I didn't know it was happening the other way around. I ask you, what have you done by bringing in unprofessional personnel, three directors into three companies that you have placed on V.D. Directorial places, which are unprofessional, incompetent, incompetent? The union rightly indicates that they will end Serbian railways and this law will not change that, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I have empathy for you because you don't have too much support in your party. In that sense, I would support everything you propose, but we have no justice and we have no justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36149	Time. I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. You're used to insulting people who aren't present and who can't defend themselves. Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36150	Your Honor, I'm always first in line for action and then only for position, so you can see the results. It seems to me that when you became an independent MP, as if you had erased your past, but you cannot erase it, we also know which party you were in and what those parties were doing and what that party left behind. I mentioned it, I'll mention it again, which is that in 1884, when the first track was made, the average speed of those tracks was 40 kilometers per hour, and the average speed was when the DS came down from power and left the SNS to fix it was below 30 kilometers per hour. So that's what it was. Maybe we can agree, and we shouldn't go back in time, and I don't think we'll ever go back into that past again, and for your information, Serbia's got 21 electric locomotives in the last year, so trains. He'll get another 27 from the Russian loan. The railways are modernized in Serbia -- 130km this year, 500km for the next three years, with an average speed of up to 120km per hour. When you mention the Iron Bridge, I'm sorry, you're late, you have no information. "The Bridge" is a subcontractor on the Željev Bridge. They had a payout problem. The subcontractor, therefore, is a subcontractor, who has suspended his work and agreed with his performer, and that is their contractual relationship. Therefore, work on the Jell-O Bridge continues. The iron bridge will be finished. I am also very proud of all those who work on the Željev Bridge, as I am proud of the Serbian railways. What was done on Serbian railways for the previous year and a half has not been done in 30 previous years. Therefore, we will continue to do so and enjoy the ride of Serbian trains on Serbian railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36151	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance on the line. The Minister only responded to your insults without the same treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36152	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't look back on what the previous speaker was talking about. He has already become recognizable in making very unserious and irresponsible statements and assessments. I don't think we should waste any time on that today. Do you know how that works? He comes out here in the lobby, he holds a press conference in front of the press, of course, none of the press asks him anything, then there's there to shine some nonsense and, of course, notorious lies, and then so inspired comes here and fantasizes all day. It's repeated every day. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36153	Please, Mr. Markovic, you must return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36154	Thank you for warning me. Today's agenda is full of very important points, I primarily think of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Railways, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways. So this is what is very important, regardless of what the previous speaker spoke about earlier in the railways, the state of the Serbian trains, etc., as the minister also responded nicely and pointed to all of this. It is not clear to me how he failed to mention, while talking about the state of Serbian trains and railways, one fact, one situation that Serbia's railways had to pay for foams, and a very large amount of money to single out for those purposes. So, it's about five million euros in pens that we had to pay for the unpunished loans that were signed in their time, so, at a time when the leadership in the railways was people who were named by the party that belonged to the previous speaker, so, DS. When someone gets out of the party, the time doesn't stop. It wasn't time someone left the party. So that doesn't stop the responsibility. So fivem euros were paid on various grounds for not paying already approved and signed loans. Whose responsibility is that? I will tell you – the responsibility of the previous regime, the responsibility of the leadership that functioned from 2008 to 2012, which he failed to mention here. He wasn't interested in that. At the beginning of my presentation in the principle debate, I would like to point out that I support this bill, as well as other proposals today, because of all those problems that have been identified during the application of the current law which regulates this area. I consider these proposed solutions to be precise and correcting all of the above, but as we have said, the problematic provisions of this law, and thus achieves a easier and more effective practical application of this law, as well as the removal of all the negative effects we have heard, which have been created by the inability to apply so far. It is clear that the aim of this law is to increase the quality and competitiveness of rail traffic compared to some other types of traffic, so air traffic, road traffic, etc. and thus the improvement of rail traffic itself. All these shortcomings that we had opportunities to hear about and hear today in the debate resulted in the need to pass a new law, especially if we take into account the need for full compliance, i.e. by harmonising the rules governing this area, with EU regulations, or directives that we could also hear about today. If we have in mind the situation on the railway market or the rail market, which is not at the most enviable level, therefore, the practical lack of competition in this area, the closure of the market, a rather inefficient system, then the number of passengers and goods transported that are also not at the most envious level, and finally, high dependence on budgetary subsidies, which is a significant burden, then it is clear that the adoption of a new law is simply one natural and logical step towards overcoming all these problems. A significant contribution to the development of competition on the market for services in this area will be easier access to and further exploitation of infrastructure, which are provided for by these legal solutions. No less important is the relief of the procedures that we are also introducing with this solution. First of all, in the sense of issuing appropriate licences and licences, i.e. certificates. The improvement of efficiency on these issues is unequivocally contributing to the achievement, to say, of the declared common objective, which is the market for services, therefore, a stand-alone and consolidated market on which the basic criterion of success is the quality of the offer, whose basic feature is based on fair market principles. When it comes to "Serbian Railways", which we have mentioned as a business society, and I will end up not repeating everything that my colleagues have said earlier, it is necessary to highlight the reform and reorganisation of the company itself that was implemented this summer, or implemented, by singleing out three independent economic operators, which will contribute to improving business efficiency, increasing the quality of services on the market and reducing the financial expenditure from the state budget in the long term, i.e. in the long term. For all these reasons, I suggest we adopt today's solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36155	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36156	The 27th Honored Chairman has been injured. So the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Dear Chairman, you have injured both this member and other members. You allowed the previous speaker to address me, to question me, first of all, not to speak to me personally, secondly to question my right to give a statement to the press because they did not ask me anything. So you here don't let me say what I mean, and even now you question me right and say in the hall what I think, because for God's sake, the press didn't ask me anything. Well, we're asked by citizens, Mr. Chairman, asking us, what about their rights, what about their pensions, what about their salaries, what about their standards...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36157	This is not a topic, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36158	... And we are obliged to give them an answer, Mr. Chairman. Please allow us to do so and that no one dares to restrict the right here to search for passes for the hall, for "Belgrade on the Water", for another place. We don't have anything on our hands that says we're not allowed to move. Don't let that happen in the National Assembly. Whether the press asks me anything or not, I have the right to express my position. They have a chance to transmit it or not to pass it on. There's no one right here in the National Assembly that forbids me to say and say I'm fantasizing, because I'm talking about threatened citizens' rights, I fantasize. Because I brought a petition today with 17,000 signatures. I'm fantasizing. Maybe these citizens fantasize, they don't know how they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36159	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, you are a professor at the university, and you know very well and can use when using the term – personal address. Mr. Markovic never spoke to you personally. He spoke through his speech about parts of your presentation, but not one moment did he speak to you personally, so I couldn't react, as I couldn't react with a sentence - who was making statements to the press, we're here in the O.R., I can't know who was making statements to the press and who was being mentioned by Mr. Markovic. So, Mr. Vesenovic, next time you want to abuse the Rules of Procedure, report to the Rules of Procedure to replicate, at least tell the truth, not what was not said and what I couldn't prevent. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36160	Dear Chairman, I believe you have injured the 107th member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of the dignity of the Assembly. You did not respond at the moment when the speaker, in front of the SNS, said that MPs fantasized about making statements and making their views in this assembly. When I see the way you react, not only in reason, but as you listen to the explanation of how you react, how fellow MPs from the ruling set react, then simply a man comes to the dilemma with a question of any reason... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36161	It's not worth it, Mr. Markovic, because you don't want to explain how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you're interpreting the presentation and the speeches of the MPs, so I just have to ask you if you want the Assembly to plead? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I want to finish the sentence I started. Well, you can't replicate Mr. Markovic. Please take advantage of your right to remind yourself of the Rules of Procedure and to know when you can at what point, in which way you report for exposure. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I want to finish the sentence I started, with my comment on the furniture... ) The assembly will declare on Vote Day. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36162	Thank you. Wait a minute, I'll be patient until my colleague's finished. I am advocating Article 103, Section 8, it seems to me, it is not disputed the right of the People's Rules of Procedure to advertise the Rules of Procedure, it is not disputed even an attempt to abuse the Rules of Procedure for some other purposes. Therefore, in this Article 103, it states in one position – the case of the position of the 7th member, the President of the National Assembly is obliged that the time used by the MP using the right of use under Article 1, in the search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group has remaining time to search. I think a member of the craftsman remains at the time if not at this point, according to the amendments. I also think that fellow Markovic, his MP group, is still time and so I think you should take advantage of this right of yours since there was a petition here, about the yellow ducks, about Belgrade on the water. I can understand the concerns of the yellowish but see in the future that, and not wanting to comment on their right to their opinion if that is their opinion, but in the future, use this right of 8th Article 103, because I simply cannot hear more about Belgrade on water, yellow ducks, yellow duck rights and so on. I can't hear any more about an association called "the craftsmanship" because it's simply a woman, a sister-in-law and he, they form an association and then they talk about the rights of their association and so on. Simply, you have to apply the Rules of Procedure and deny them this time, if not this time, and at least every tenth time they abuse the Rules of Procedure, to use that right of yours. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36163	You're right, and I'll have to apply it from now on. I didn't want the first thing Mr. Vesenović didn't have time to take away from him, and Mr. Markovic only has two minutes he wants to take advantage of, and I didn't want those two minutes to take away from him, but I did, but I will have to do it if it continues to be misused by the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36164	Article 107. I'm not going to ask the Assembly to plead on the injury. But what's left of it, that's whether a colleague, Alexander Markovic, insulted someone with the word - fantasize? I will remind you, Mr. Chairman, and I will remind those who have reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because it has prevented them from fantasizing, that this word means: to fantasize, to dream, to admire, to get carried away. Who's hurt and what's he hurt? The same ones were now seeking to hurt the Rules of Procedure because they were distracted by the word “fantasy, ” and it did not interfere with the word“ one hundred, ” which was directed by a fellow who was sitting next to him. That's when he applauded. That's when he laughed. They called us "wrestlers", the scum, just colleagues sitting next to him, and then he didn't mind. Now he's in trouble – fantasizing, fantasizing, dreaming. Which one of us hasn't done something like that before? However, what is much more dangerous, Mr. Chairman, is what has missed other MPs, which is that a colleague from the craftsman's association said and mentioned some bands around his hands, some markings on his hands. It made me sick. It reminded me of the period of World War II, the period of fascism, the period when, unfortunately, the Jews, who know how they ended up wearing yellow ribbons in such a regime. These marks on my hands reminded me of the holocaust, reminded me of some very ugly things and therefore I think you had to warn your colleague, Veselinović, who touched those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36165	Time, Mr. Granny. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36166	I think you're a little discriminatory about giving a word to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, since you gave your boss a word like that on your paw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36167	Mr. Stefanovic, will you take the agenda? Since hard words have started to say here, I have to cut this short and get back to the subject. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic, do you want to talk about the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36168	Not only do I not understand the question, what Berisavljevic would say, I disagree with your question. What is obvious here, distinguished colleagues and respected minister, is that this law has been passed to match certain things in it with EU directives and that is a positive one. What is not good is the root of these changes concerning parceling, i.e. The "Serb Railways" tampering with four societies – Railway AD, Infrastructure, Serbia-Kargo and Serbia, which were also implemented by order and in agreement with the IMF. In this situation, some changes have been made to give greater authority to infrastructure and that is very interesting. That's what we talked about the last time you were here, Minister, and then I begged you, if you remember, to take a lot more care that, as we hear from the railway people, certain personnel are pushing themselves into this very society, and that's exactly what people who are close to the ruling party are expected to invest more in the infrastructure, because of the loans they've been talking about for years. Article 51. Laws, i.e. Article 21 The draft law to be deleted is said to respect certain rules by building and reconstructing the railway. Here, let's say, it's erased and I don't understand why it's deleted. But what is clear to me from all of this, definitely, and what is confirmed by the people of the railways and who have even spoken to the public, the few who dared to speak by name and last name, is that, you and I will agree, and all fellow MPs will, I'm sure, confirm the question of whether our railways are in a very bad condition – yes, whether they were in better condition or worse three, four, five years ago – were equally bad or worse, and I really don't see any room there for us to have any way of any previous leadership. Our trains are slow, our trains are late, our tracks are in terrible shape, there are railway employees who don't know what their duties are right now, they don't know who's doing what they're doing, some don't even get their first paychecks for new systemization, and some employees in this company that really belongs to the Ministry of Traffic tell us that, and they say about public information. According to an estimate of certain consultants from the railway company Serbia, more than 6,000 employees should be fired. So, respected citizens, you are expected to be fired by more than six thousand railway employees. After dividing the Railways into four societies, to put in one of these societies a set of personnel of close ruling foreigners, while others were neglected, adopted systematicisation, paid wages to some, some did not, most people absolutely function in an irregular state, they do not know who is doing what, they do not know what is in charge. It goes so far through the papers, I don't know if it's true, I wish it wasn't, the director of one of these societies, "Kargo Serbia", Miroljub Jeftic, who was mentioned here and the previous time, Minister, remember, when I begged you to carry out things in a professional way, that you should give a chance etc., he wanted to go to Zagreb, and it's written in the paper for two days, on the official trip, and he had to beg you, and you told him – look to be in the country, mostly and it's maximum for a few hours. So six thousand people will be out of work, restructuring, market reform, privatization of railway parts, all the terrible bad things that need to be stopped. Every country in Europe that cares about itself, sees that if it doesn't, to return the monopoly, and to return the railways to its own hands, and only we look to tear them apart first, so that we sell them before that, six thousand people to push on the street, will get the severances they will use, pay the debts they have made, because Serbia today in the shadow of the High Roast, eats on the line, respected gentlemen, and that's true, and what when they pay back those debts, what will they do then? So go to the market, then which market? Where are they going to work? You remember that together we agreed on some of the earlier times, even in the previous session, a colleague remembers, that our stripes are in such a state, that that Mile from that song can easily lie down and sleep on them. Yeah, and that's true. It's sad, the authorities are changing, and the situation hasn't improved. We got a loan from Russia, which is being realised, and it was obtained during the previous bad government, and that loan is not realised by the dynamics that need to be realized in the work and I admit it. What's the state of our rails, but we're gonna fire six thousand people, so we're gonna save money, and that's what you're getting at, isn't it? There's been a lot of talk about restructuring the railroad and it's obvious that something was done that was agreed with the IMF, in a certain kind of rush. I don't want to criticize it, but obviously the thread is a good estimate, not a good analysis, I'm talking about this company plotting, and of course it's caused by the confusion that's going on there. There are people there who are used to getting paid without doing anything, but most people are honest and professional people who hold one strategic resource of this country, every country. It's just that they've been changed, let's say employees, coefficients, some people don't get paid right, so they didn't get the amounts they need, they had to go through the stages, they had to be done thoroughly, they had to do a professional, not a neck-to- nose analysis, etc. In short, we have one system that is transferred from one government to another without some major concrete results. Every set of furniture in the government buys their own set of vehicles. Those trains are scratching or smashing. They ride along the tracks that are packed in the weeds and which are slow. In Nis, meanwhile, there is no solution to the problem this World Bank country took credit for during the previous government, nine million euros that has never realised, and what happened? We have no idea. We want to electrify, as they say, the railroad through the city. It's nowhere in Europe. There isn't. During the previous government and during this government, what was also a little railroad that was, say, in Vojvodina, completely neglected, abandoned, and people who depend on Shinobus transport can soon forget that it exists. Some progress has been made within Beovoza. Some progress has been made in the realisation of the Russian credit on certain shares, I admit, because that is a fact, but the problem, the respected minister, which you know very well, is that it is a system that is deeply inefficient, which has been parcelerated, which has always been the party directors, which is now such, there are also professional people, but which is essentially not reformed properly? In Article 88, let's say, you end the state and introduce a private monopoly. You say - On the basis of a decision by the competent authority on the direct award of a public transport obligation contract, a public transport obligation contract may be awarded. That's what the citizens say you know, that you'll be able to make a direct agreement on the transport contract. Well, then they go beyond that -- based on a public competition open to all railway undertakings, with respect to the principle of transparency and non-discrimination, I would stop here, which is usually part of our amendment, but no, you go on -- which may, after supplying offers and possible previous elections, include negotiations in accordance with those principles. The previous election. That means we make a deal before and then we go to it. That's it. So, you have a situation in which, in agreement with international financial institutions, you voluntarily pitch railways, which can be a good thing, given the nature of the work of certain parts of the railways, some are freight traffic, some travellers. So I don't mind in that sense, but the way it's done is bad. The result of this reform is that of firing, potentially undermining, the potential layoff of six thousand employees who will have nowhere to work in this country, who have not voted in favour of this "railway" and of this country that you have made. They voted for something else. They voted to be better than Mr. Markovic, not you, but the previous director. And I know, a lot of people will say-- it's not that hard. Well, I know, I agree, but I repeat, I cannot see any progress in what are the biggest challenges, and the Railway is certainly one of the biggest challenges. A huge number of people, a huge number of families depend on the salary, their family members work there. Six thousand is a huge number. Six thousand on the street, and with nine thousand, what Cory Widowsky mentions, how much it will end up being, we'll see, the question is, will Mrs. Widowsky do that at all in the end, but that's the consequence, let me say one political and economic philosophy. This philosophy says – If you gentlemen are not profitable and marketable, we do not need you. The only problem is, I respect it. Why don't you tell the citizens before the election, but tell the citizens through these changes to the laws you're making? You potentially provide direct contracts for participants in the competition before then extend their deadlines to as many as 22 years of use, 22 years for a transport contract. It's a picture of the future Railways, not these now, this one is very bad now. The new one will perhaps be more efficient with much less employees, much more expensive for our citizens, much more expensive and it will be "The Railway" that will hardly work the way we all wanted it to be, with the energy of the spine of this society, it is not, and it will not be, I am afraid, if this thing is certainly agriculture, if these things are implemented in this way. My criticism is, therefore, to conclude, aimed at the division of "Serb Railways", to a certain kind of confusion that was created in "Serb Railways" after that, to favour certain managers, to the potential release of six thousand people and to the problem that awaits us because the whole "railway" is structured, now set up so that certain parts need and can and probably want to be sold and then we, like the British, may one day have a private railway in Serbia, so that some new government will come here and say – We want to return our "rail" to the state business. It is a conflict between me and you, politically, because I do not believe in the market and I do not believe in the economic relations of exploitation as the only criteria of value, and I especially do not believe in the market and reform of the Railways, with all the respects carried out by the Progressive Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36169	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36170	Thank you for your discussion, thank you for taking care of the Railways, but, dear MP, let me tell you, we will take care of the Railway so that from Belgrade to Novi Sad goes in 30 minutes in two years. Let me also remind you that it's not because of the SNS situation that we have to give at least 10 billion dinars per year to the Railways, it's not because of the SNS. This is because the last 10 years have been ruined and destroyed by the Railways. I'll also tell you that in 2000, there were 30,000 people in the Railways. In 2015, there are 17,000 people. You fired those people, didn't do SNS. Not only that, you fired them so that you fired those people who were the main perpetrators, so now the Railway doesn't have enough engineers, for example, and there aren't enough people who really need to do work on the Railways. When you talk about numbers, you can't do it because those numbers aren't right first and people aren't numbers for us. So we started the railway reform just as fast as we started all the loans. You're the one who agreed to withdraw the IBRD loan in 2010 for locomotives, or trains. You didn't do anything, we were paying for the penalty when we came to power, and we did it in 2013, at the end of the year to sign the contract and get the Studler trains. What have you been doing for three years? Why for three years we have to pay for the penalty because you couldn't agree, i.e. by making a public call, you really have to establish that this country gets trains. It's not SNS' fault, it's not this government's fault, it's your fault. Five-point seven million euros, as far as the state has paid, only interest due to undrawn loans, is not an SNS and this government's fault, but is yours, so now you're talking about how much you care about railway employees, how much you care about Railways, nobody can believe. I can't believe it. It's a very important business matter. There's no such thing as a company plot. We may be able to talk about building plots or land, but we can't talk about businesses. For us companies are very important and exactly in line with the EU directives that you have now praised, a certain division has been made, but not because we put party personnel, as you say, in these companies, because it was the DS that did it, but because people who know how to do their job would come along with the government and all other institutions at the same time, as I said, did reforming and starting investments. What I think is a very important story about a private monopoly, it's not true, you're wrong, you haven't read the law. I understand you may not have been able to read it, I'll read it to you. Private monopoly does not exist and private monopoly will not exist in the Railways. It is very clear in Article 88 of the Law that, very clearly - the public transport obligation contract can be awarded: under one, on the basis of the decision of the competent authority. Do you know who the competent authority is? It writes to you in Article 85, it's a government, it's an Autonomous province, or, it's a local self-government, so the competent authority directly assigns a public transport obligation contract. So, the competent authority, for example, one municipality, can decide to conclude a contract with “Serbia”, e.g. It's one option that's offered. Why? To protect our domestic operator. But also, at the same time, he can decide not to do it, but to call a public call and get another private operator to work on that line. It's not a private monopoly. So it's very clear and very transparent and there are criteria. Because there are criteria, because there will be what I said from the beginning, and that is that we will have the Belgrade track – Budapest, or that we will have the railway, from Belgrade to Novi Now you will travel 30 minutes, what, so that lunch does not cool down, to arrive in 30 minutes, on modern trains, on modern railways. As for, once again, rail employees, we'll make sure very much that the people who need the railways work. We'll take care of the structure of the people who work in the railroad. We will not allow those perpetrators who are required to leave to make that railway work. Once again, let me remind you, precisely because of the very irresponsible policy of the past 10 years, the railroad, or the speed on the tracks, was below 30 kilometers per hour. You can't tell if it was better or worse four or five years ago. It was really bad. It's not good now either, but this year and in the last year and a half, the railways and the Serbian government have made a move. The shift is 130km of modernized railway that will go on average 100km per hour. It's a huge thing. There's no credit that's not running. That Russian loan you're talking about, and you should be ashamed of yourself for not touching a Russian loan, so you haven't touched it in the last year of each Russian loan annex is done. The Russian loan delivers locomotives, we open up shares that go on average 120km per hour, Russian credit moves into reconstruction and bar tracks. Therefore, it would be fairer to say that you have sinned, and to support what is good in this country, if you really want Serbia's citizens well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36171	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36172	Mr. Chairman, you gave me your word, and Mr. Markovic won't let me. I don't know who's chairing the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36173	Go ahead, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36174	Thank you. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, co-workers from the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure, Honored colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is far away from our country by building infrastructure in relation to those countries we look up to, but we have the right to fantasize, we have the right to wake up from this imagination, to roll up sleeves like the sleeves of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to build the foundations and foundations of such a state and such infrastructure. I believe that colleagues and colleagues from Novi Sad will travel for half an hour in the future from the National Assembly, that is, from Belgrade to Novi Sad. I believe that in the future we will look forward and have infrastructure, we will have stripes like the Japanese, with their Maglev, the train, which in the test drive made a speed of 603 kilometers per hour, the truth, in the test drive. However, this desired goal is not to be reached overnight. You don't come to that desired goal by tirading here at the National Assembly, and then you go to a press conference, and then you go home. That infrastructure needs to be done. What is the relationship in the railways, they show, here, I took a stenogram from 2011, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I was a fellow MP back then. Some other congregation majority decided the fate of this country. And then, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I believe you know, and then the Law on Railways was proposed and the Law on Railways was discussed on 26 December 2011. It was debated both in detail and in principle, but the law was never passed, never. They praised him, said he was the best, that he was reforming, that I didn't know what he was like, but they never voted him in the National Assembly. Why? Because they couldn't make a deal about the spoils, because they couldn't agree on who and what part would belong to whom. Now they say - it's a terrible situation on the railways, the railways are slow. Here are a few sentences now spoken by a fellow MP, I'm sorry he's not here, Mrs. Alexandra Jerkov. She said – I will say one thing, that before the First World War, the train from Belgrade to Saturday was going faster than it is today and people were coming faster from Belgrade to Saturday by train, than they can do today, if it is possible to do so today at all. That's what Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov said in December 2011. Is SNS responsible for such trains and such speed? I know that my colleague Markovic was doing other things at the time at Užica. He didn't follow that session at the time, or what his colleagues said about the situation in the Serbian railway. How was that disastrous then? Who is responsible, perhaps then the opposition SNS? No, of course not. Said a colleague earlier - it's a terrible situation, there's a lot of garbage around the railroad. Thank you for reminding me of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, however, only the Serbian budget has been cleared. I will remind you again Mrs. Mihajlovic of the words of another MP, no longer in this assembly, my countryman from Kruševec, the distinguished Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, the MP of the DS. Do you know what he said in his presentation? "We also have in Article 59," the Law on Railways, which has never been voted in the Assembly, "an additional important provision, which is," says "the disposal of waste and garbage is prohibited. When you take the tracks of Serbia, you see the dumps of garbage that everyone here puts off the way he likes it. “ We now have cities in Serbia that have municipal police. The communal police should be given jurisdiction, etc. And that's when Honorable counterpart Milivojevic told the reality, told the truth, about tones and tons of garbage along Serbian lines. I'm talking about 2011. Who's gonna be responsible for that 2011 garbage? I am sure of my colleague Markovic that he will also say then – Mrs Mihajlović and SNS are responsible. Just can't get him to look in the mirror. Some people here have had the courage to say what reality is. What is interesting is that only Srdjan Milivojevic spoke in front of the DS parliamentary group, that it was approximately known that the law would never be voted because the agreement was not anyone, what or whom it would belong to, but I will talk about it a little later, at least when the dispersion was made, as the esteemed colleague said earlier. I think it's over with taking one, and I'm going to risk you warning me, which is to run a schizophrenic policy, at least when it's built...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36175	Please, Mr. Granny, you're aware when you said that word, that term shouldn't be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36176	I apologize, the wrong policies, at least when it comes to railways and building railway infrastructure. Because of the 2008th, 2009, 2010, in 2011, Mr. Becic, you were a member of the Parliament at the time, you watched the laws at which the loan agreements were confirmed, and that then tens and hundreds of millions of euros as a loan, as a loan, we took and committed ourselves, committed to the future. You know what the government and then state were buying? Cars, locomotives. Look, when you don't have the infrastructure, when you don't have the foundation, and you buy the crep, you don't have the foundation, and you've already bought the furniture that's going to fail until you build the house. They bought locomotives, and there were no stripes on which these locomotives had to draw their compositions and loads. There weren't any markets, but you were buying locomotives. Why? It is my pleasure now that I am passing through and I would like our infrastructure, at least when it comes to the railway, to be everywhere, because when I go to the Vranjak spa, I go through Mali Povorec and Mladenvec to Topoli, Kragujevac to continue through Šumadi, so I see that railway around Mladenvec towards Belgrade and it is a pleasure to see the new railway. I'm sorry some colleagues don't travel that way or when they pass, they don't want to see what's really done. I have to go back to that year 2011 and I have to go back to this claim that something's disintegrating. One is the distribution that is corporate, when you divide one legal person into more overalls because of better business, more profitable, faster business, and the other is one dangerous thing that has not been adopted by the Law on Railways in 2011. I will read to you again the presentation of Mrs Jerkov: "I thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not recognised the principle that is trying to establish amendments to certain parliamentary groups supported by the Government of Vojvodina, which is the principle that whoever has funded something, built and maintained must have management, founding, ownership rights over the same team that has been fully or predominantly funded, which has been maintained for years, and that those rights should not have any funds in it and which, moreover, has shown that in no way can properly maintain all that infrastructure," etc., etc. At the time, the Law on Railway Amendments which were not adopted, so no law was to be passed, was to be dispersed and should have been dispersed on a territorial basis, that this distribution on a corporate basis is a condition for better business, for more efficient business. To whom, then, has he given consent to this dispersion and the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, who is now, indeed, with 6% support? At that time, Bojan Pajtic gave the warrant, gave consent to the dispersal of the "Serbian Railway". How come now so many dissonant tones come from his MP group that say, no, what kind of black dispersion? Did they change their mind or change the president or change the president of the parliamentary group? Something is, but that dissonant tones absolutely exist, that what was then planned to be done on an autonomic basis, and for which they had the consent of Bojan Pajtic, then and now with 6% of the support of the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, is really very dangerous. For SNS and the law that we adopted here in 2013, he had full support, they also have these amendments and additions to the Law on Railways that are to the least in line with European norms. I'm sure this is the introduction and commitment to building infrastructure, that it's one alignment with the railways in Europe. We'll need time for such a thing, it'll take a lot of shed sweat to get to that level, but I think this law is the way to the fulfillment of our dreams.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36177	Thank you. Just a minute. I have Mr. Stefanovic and Mr. Markovic reported. What's the basis of your call? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You are right, as an authorised representative, Mr Markovic, because the party is mentioned, and so are you personally. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36178	If Mr. Stefanovic first has a word for the minister, then it is his turn to speak. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: 20 minutes I wait. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36179	Mr. Stefanovic, does he think he has the right to present Mrs. Minister? No, you have no right. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why? ) In her presentation, I saw no possibility that you could get a replica. The word can only be given to Mr. Markovic because the DS is mentioned. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I apologize, you did not know, you spoke on the phone. Mr. Stefanovic, you're very funny. Mr. Markovic, do you want to use your two-minute right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36180	Dear Mr. Becic, I don't answer with a replica because the party is mentioned, although it is several times, but because I was directly mentioned by Mr. Babic. I think it was your turn to warn him several times...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36181	If you'd listened to me, Mr. Markovic, I told you that you were right to mention the DS, and you yourself, and that's why I gave you that basis. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I ask that my time be restored. That's what you always do. Here you go, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36182	When Mr Babić, in his 11-minute presentation, convinces and reads what happened at the 2011 Assembly, he then speaks of how well he was prepared for this debate and how well he and his colleagues who came to this hall today are committed to this topic, how superficially he looks at these problems. We have opened several essential issues, which is why for a year since the application of this law you are changing 45 members within 111 members of this law and telling us about reforms that you do not believe in yourself. We've opened the subject of asking you why there's no effect on the application of this law and on the suggestions you've proposed? Why won't you talk about the 6,000 people who are going to get fired after applying this law? Why won't you talk about the 5,500 people you've admitted to the railroad since 2012? Your only answer to all the topics we've opened today is to talk about what who said in 2011 in this room. You don't care about all those people who are going to be out of a job, you don't care about coming back to this room again in a year to say, we're changing 35 members, because we need to bring the directive into line, because we need to bring each other together, etc. Who is responsible for changing 45 members after a year and a half of this law to this day? Mr. Babic is obviously not ready for discussion, and the only thing he has to say is that he accuses people who used to work on these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36183	Thank you. The SNS Group has a lot of time, so you can't deny someone the right to speak for seven minutes. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Becic. ) Mrs. Mihajlović, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36184	I think it's very important for the citizens to... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Becic, three times you do not give me the word in the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36185	Mr. Markovic, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. When I give my word to someone, I can't break it to give my word to you again. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You did not give me the word...) Mr. Markovic, I have already given my word to the Deputy Prime Minister when you reported to the Rules of Procedure. You have to wait. It's basic culture to wait for the speaker who got his word that you would have the right to answer. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: This is the third time today with the same reasons. I can't solve your problems, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Madam Minister, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36186	Dear MP, thank you for allowing me to say a few sentences, and based on your presentation, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, because it is clear to me that you have not read the amendments and the amendments of the law and that you have not understood, you understand that these amendments and the additions of the law should be added, that, above all, "the railroad of Serbia" and railway transport are more effective. I don't know if you're psychic, so you know we're coming back next year with the same law to parliament. That's not the plan. If the EU adopts further directives that can help to make rail transport more efficient, why not. I would also really ask you that because of the citizens of Serbia and, above all, because of the railways that are on the right track, and the reforms that we are really carrying out in the interest of everyone, you do not talk about the government of Serbia or the "railway" leaving 6,000 people out of work, that they will be thrown into the streets or whatever, because it is above all not true. And so what we're doing right now, standing in front of three companies that are formed, and I'm glad they're formed, is making business plans, working on it and defining what the priorities are, what they're going to invest in, that further investment is being made. Again, I can't go back, there is another loan that made the Serbian government pay extra interest, aside from the 5.7m euros, because of your unhappiness. For example, the European Investment Bank loan you concluded in 2006, you haven't touched it since 2006 until the Government of the SNS was formed in 2013. Until then, the state of Serbia paid interest for what you did not do, and it concerns the reconstruction and modernisation of the Batajnica-Golubinci stock, and Gilje, Ćupria – Paracin. Therefore, it may not be bad for you to read the law. It would also be bad if you gave support to the Railways, to all those workers in the Railways, who have been working hard for a year and a half, to reform the Railways and better business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36187	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36188	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which says the session of the National Assembly is an old president of the National Assembly. I've tried three times to get word to Mr. Becic all the time to avoid telling me where the Rules of Procedure is hurt. Mr. Becic, for all this time, as far as I insist on getting a word, you talk on the phone, or you talk to your associates, you don't follow the discussion, you don't react when you hear from the other side of the charge that someone is schizophrenic, that someone is psychic, that someone fantasize and question further discussion at this session. Why was it three times that I couldn't get a word in and react to your relationship with us and to the attitude of the MPs who speak on the other hand? How can we normally discuss these topics that the minister imposes after all these sentences that have been said here? You don't react to such things, let alone expect to react to these statements concerning loans, bad placements, etc., some of the contracts mentioned here, which we don't have a chance to plead. So, an hour and a half last, it's just a discussion going in that direction that you're completely uninterested in our remarks, you're either talking on the phone, or you're smirking like that, so the SNS MPs are getting the support that they're here in a very inappropriate way talking in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36189	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36190	Madam President, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 27, nor am I professional, nor do I want anyone's lawyer, nor does the chairman's attorney, Mr. Becic. But if one MP, as Mr Markovic did just before, says, gets a word, talks, listens to what he says, and immediately afterwards asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, means that he is asking and he is saying and he admits that he was doing something that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or abuses the Rules of Procedure. If he's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it was yesterday, it's impossible. It's got to be done now. If he is seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure because of what he said, and perhaps the chairman did not at that time warn or take away the word, then I can also accept that it is Mr Markovic's confession, a very human recognition, that in each of his presentations, I am him first, and then we will all have to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it has nothing to do with the subject, but not with any congregation dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36191	What's the member? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Article 103.) Article 103, how is 103 now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36192	The MP is obliged to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure I have injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36193	He said 27. Member of the Parliament, don't for the abuse of that little time from the parliamentary group to take away. He's listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36194	And I hurt him?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36195	Here you go. Should I be the one to tell you whether I know it or not? I don't know how to run a session. Here you go, article 27 said. Replica, Zoran Babic, to someone long ago your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36196	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, responsibility. Responsibility is really a key word. The Serbian Progressive Party insists on responsibilities, we are aware of our responsibilities, we are not running away from it, but we are seeking responsibility for which in 2011, this National Assembly did not declare itself to the Law on Railways. We're looking for responsibility for everything that's been said. We're looking for responsibility because someone from here has been scaring people in Serbia for three years and nothing. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia voted in 2012, the same people and MPs of the former regime spoke – there will be sanctions, there will be this, there will be no bread, no fuel, I don't know what. The same people's MPs now say – 6000 people will fire you from the railroad, you are this, you are it. And no one should ask them for responsibility for what they've been told? Is Mr. Markovic and Mr. Stefanovic, who came out, willing to be responsible that if it does not happen, and will not happen on the basis of the words of Mrs. Mihajlovic, are they willing to bear responsibility? Moral? To say, "I'm sorry, we lied." It won't be the first, not the last time. I'm sorry we lied, we're going to Uzice now, we're going to take the pantry. Will you resign Mr. Markovic for such statements? Because of a statement that 6000 people will be fired, and that won't happen? Because you were scaring people in the railways, because you're scaring people in Serbia, without any responsibility. You know, when I was changing the watch with your colleague, I gave him the watch, but you took off the watch and said, "I don't have one." You can't treat responsibility that way, be behind those words you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36197	In accordance with Articles 27 and 81, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours, due to the need to conclude today's debate on the proposed agenda. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36198	Mr. Babic, unlike you, I am before and today and in the future I will always be ready to bear both political and any other kind of responsibility for what I say. Lucky for me, I've been keeping an eye on what I've been saying in public speaking and in public life for the past 15 years, unlike you. Today, you weren't present, just when I was talking about 6000 people who are eventually released under this law, listed just the interview that came out on October 6th in a daily list, where the President of the Railways Union is talking worried about it and is talking worried about the fact that in the last year and a half, after your famous reforms you have become less and less and less and less passengers in rail traffic, we are increasingly transporting goods, we have increasingly worse and worse effects of law enforcement. I just asked that question today. Instead of engaging and engaging in this problem, you tend to distract Serbian citizens, talk about it as a chronicler in 2011 at some assembly, who and what he was cleaning up in the 2008 and 2010 railway zones, and do not give essential answers to what Serbian citizens are interested in. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So when you show me something like that, I'm supposed to stop? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36199	No, I don't. You mean the look I cut you off. I didn't. I guess I have some power that you've just discovered. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36200	Now we're just seeing this withdrawal from responsibility. Until a moment ago, I think the birds on the border around the National Assembly have remembered -- you're like this, you're the worst in the world, you're gonna fire six thousand people. When we ask for responsibility, because something like this isn't going to happen, at the exact moment, a different formulation, so it's said, possibly if you are, you know, possibly if something happens, you know, eventually if, I don't know, turn off these reflectors, what happens. There's no possible responsibility. Or stand to the end behind the words you've said and behind such catastrophic announcements that you're scaring people in Serbia, so as you scare them, that's how you end up. As you stand behind your words, so did you in the Uzica election. And not only in Užica, but in all of Serbia. Now, when it wasn't enough for you -- eventually you know how to resign, and that doesn't exist in a democratic dictionary. We move immediately to possible, but to protect ourselves until the end, we say - no, Mr. Markovic did not say that, the union president said, so let the union president resign. You know, just don't take democratic resignations, they don't question, nor does that democratic responsibility come. It doesn't exist. He's about to sacrifice the president of the union. They'll sacrifice whoever it is they need to stay in the chairs where they are and just do what they learned to do, and these are accusations without any expense, accusations without any truth, but they didn't count on one thing, and that's what people in Serbia don't trust you anymore, and they've shown it in all the choices they've made so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36201	Time. Thank you. We're finishing up the replicas. I give my word to MP Goran Ciric, we return to the debate, but it lasts 45 minutes in total and I think... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I was mentioned. I thank you very much. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36202	Dear President, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course I want a word, since I signed up for the word and I use it the moment you give me that technical opportunity. I think since I have about four minutes of time, it seems to me, by the end, five minutes, thank you, I don't think any of us from the opposition should criticise this law, nor have much time for that analysis. I think you're criticizing yourself in the best way, because, here's when, we're doing an analysis and we've already heard in this debate that in 2013, the law was passed and that only after a year of applying that law, which was voted in this assembly by this majority, changes 50%, half of the members, talks enough about the quality of the previous solution and the previous law, and I think it's the best message of your self-crititude and what that assembly's done in the previous period. Since Mrs. Minister had the words of criticism for my colleague, Jovan Markovic, because he applied the same sentences or spoke the same arguments in the previous debate, she called for stenograms, I think it makes perfect sense that the same subject we are now talking about after two years with the same arguments and boring enough. But in addition to this, you are the self-criticists of what you have proposed to us today before the National Assembly, and what is written in the light of the adoption of this law, where in the work - the analysis of the effects of the law is said - before the new law is drafted, which will be regulated by the railway area, the effects of the applicable Law on Railways have been analysed in practice since the application of that law. So, also one of the major problems this law needs to address is the closed and under-regulated rail market. These are the effects of two years of application of this law. You're criticizing yourself. Insufficiently regulated rail services market with a lack of competition. So there's not enough competition. It is a clear goal to separate and infrastructure, separate operations and introduce competition with a key objective of covering infrastructure, the quality of infrastructure throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and there is our responsibility to define public interest in covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia with sufficient quality traffic. It is further said, with the same arguments you suggest, that this lack of competition with an inefficient system with an increasing number of passengers and goods transported, so you admit that this is an increasing number of passengers and goods transported. So it's obvious by this definition and by reason of the bill's proposal, your admission that we have the effects of applying the previously passed law, that we have less and less goods and passengers transported in railways, which we've heard of is in an ever-increasing state. And, of course, a vote is expected for this law. Then, increased travel and transport times with high dependence on budgetary subsidies. So here, it is acknowledged that the time of transport is increasing and subsidies are growing in the budget. That's the argument you're making yourself. Furthermore, if we analyse a particularly interesting member of 88, where my colleagues Markovic and Stefanovic also mentioned a possible direct contract. Where is this willingness to make a direct agreement in this law if the key argument of this majority and this Government was to adopt, in economic terms, a new Law on Public Procurement, in which we call for transparency, in which we call for open procedures and for competition that needs to be provided in all public contracts. So this is the law that now calls for direct settlement. I only invite you to fulfill that promise that you will insist on applying the Public Procurement Act that we changed a few months ago or a little more or less than a month ago in this congregation hall. What's important, too? I think these arguments that have been mentioned since 1884, the first railways built on the Belgrade-Nish section and the speeds that were then mentioned, I think it is an important argument that you have stopped the process of implementing the Niš bypass project. So, the Nisa City Assembly adopted a decision in 2011, and counterguarantees were approved for the withdrawal of tenm euros from IPA funds. There's also an expropriation. After 2012, absolutely nothing was done because the local self-government that is compatible with the coalition that sits here in the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36203	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36204	... She has learned nothing to implement this project, and this is extremely important for all the citizens of Nis and for safety, but also for the infrastructure division of Nis in two parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36205	Thank you. Answer, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36206	Since you're taking care of Nis, I don't only know what it has to do with today's tour in 1884, but now I'm going to tell you that maybe we can connect it like this – in 1884 trains went 40 kilometers an hour, and the bypass is a project launched by this government from IPA projects currently under way. That's data you may not have known, but now let me just say that you have information when you say you know the real information. That's accurate information. Secondly, to repeat the question, since we obviously don't understand each other, is the state of Serbia, does the Serbian government since 2012, because of SNS's payments to the subsidies of more than 15 billion dinars of Railways, are we responsible for the fact that the Railways of Serbia go from below 30km to 2013? I'd say it wasn't SNS or Alexander Vucic, but it was the DS that was responsible all along and negotiated and negotiated loans that she didn't use, which is why we paid very large interest. Regarding the number of employees in Železnica, the SNS did not fire from 2000 until 2015. So, with 30,000 employees, as many as there were, 17,000 employees as we found. It's not our interest to fire. Everything we do, we do to keep people busy, to have a job, and to have the ones that are needed by the Railways in the employee structure. The railroad's going to develop, there's work in the railroad. Projects are being done, projects are being launched, new projects are being negotiated. Therefore, those people who are employed in the Railways and those who will one day be further employed, such as The engineers we don't have, because you sent them all away and fired them, so they'll have work to do, they'll have their wages. Furthermore, when you talk about why we are changing the law, because it was in the parliament in 2013. Because we want to comply with all new EU standards and because we will always do it, to be more efficient and we will always go forward in the desire that the Railway really has more than 30% of transport instead of 30%. Read this famous article again in 88, as well as the 2005 law, from 2013. It's the same member of the law, nothing changed in that member of the law, it's a member of a law that existed ten years ago. So the fact that you failed to introduce and increase the competitiveness of the railroad to your soul. I'm telling you now, and I promise that the railroad will be efficient and competitive and that we will love to ride Serbian railways. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36207	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36208	Dear Minister, I am really pleased that we have now heard very important information, that you are based on the application of laws that you say are from 2005 and perhaps also prescribed from 1988. The member of Law 88, which we have pointed out here, is one of the essential members who is biting off what you say you will guarantee in the next period that this law can certainly, with good application, meet the needs of the citizens of Serbia and this area and give positive effects. We say – if you have received a choice, among other things, on the subject of public procurement, which is why, essentially, in such an important area, you give the opportunity to direct guesses, whether at a local level, a state level or any other, you apply the Public Procurement Act, and then that's all right? Second, about these contracts that you mention several times. I think it's important and your confession and I think we should share that shared responsibility, you were a member of G17 plus at the time those contracts were signed. I have never read in public that you said a word against these contracts, we have never received information that from the moment you became Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia you said they were harmful and that you were partly part of those contracts, that is, you were a member of that party at the time. So, I think it's perfectly okay for us to open the subject today. You often talk about how DS is responsible and guilty of reducing the number from 30,000 workers in 2000 to 17,000, and even more needs to be reduced. Well, if it hadn't been for those moves, if it hadn't been for these activities, if it hadn't been for these attempts to get that system in order, you would have to fire 15,000 people today, in our opinion, that's logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36209	Time, two minutes. Thank you. The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36210	Well, not for you again, because you certainly don't understand anything from what's been said. I suggest you read the law again, especially that famous article 88. For Serbian citizens to explain what that means. Currently, there is only one operator in Serbia and it is called the "Serbian train", a state-owned company. So, currently local self-government, government or province can and should make a contract on rail transport with an operator that exists, is currently just a "Serbian train", I'm talking about passenger traffic. We're hoping some other operators might show up. The moment that this happens, the authorities again, the government, the province and local self-government question a public call, transparently and transparently choose who will offer them the best conditions for their citizens. So there's no direct agreement in four eyes, which certainly existed in your time, because you're obviously going from yourself, people always go from themselves when they say things like that, when they say such criticism. I may also understand that with you, you go from yourself, but I am telling you – the law is very clear and the law is being applied and I hope that we will show in the time ahead very quickly that the Railway can be competitive, just by opening the infrastructure for the transport of passengers and to some other operators. Secondly, in 2006, in 2010, for your information, I was not a member of G17 plus, in 2006, you contracted with the European Investment Bank at 80m euros. You haven't spent a single euro in all the years you've been in power, for all that time, as it is said, the meter is working. We came to power and paid interest on loans you didn't withdraw. For these two reconstructions for which a loan was taken from the European Investment Bank, to inform citizens, this government has completed its reconstruction in a year and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36211	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36212	The second will be released in November. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36213	Thank you. We're done. You spent all your time and then your replicas. Come on, come on, I don't mind. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36214	My dear Minister, I think that Madam Chairman is absolutely right to break up with these replicas, because the longer you talk about this subject, the more you show that you don't really understand. Your statement that I don't understand anything, the first sentence, and in the second sentence you explain that first sentence and you say – right now it's "Serbian train", so he signed a contract with the government, etc., and we, or the government or state authorities, will, with the "Serbian train" sign that contract that will be agreed, confirms your intentions that you treat this 88th law as the thing that will happen today. In the second or third sentence, you say – in the next period we expect to open the market, cancel the monopoly and open the possibility of a competition. If you do that, then the first point in article 88 will not apply. You're practically passing the law, and you're binding this fundamental member of the law to the present, to today, to the conditions that we have today, and you're talking about reforms and the future, and you're telling me that I don't understand, and we're pointing to a fundamental problem, which is that you and this member are actually not going to open the market, you're going to have a monopoly, you're going to make contracts that you like, or someone in your name in the government, who's going to be at that moment. Instead of explaining your last intentions, you say I don't understand, and in your own discussion, you say you don't really understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36215	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36216	President-in-Office, honourable minister with your team, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I will take advantage of the possibility that today from the assembly speaker and I will say something about amendments and additions to the Law on Railways. First of all, I want to look back at the problems this law needs to solve, and what are the goals that this law achieves. In this law, domestic solutions are in line with EU directives and it brings the opening of the market, i.e. specify and modernise access, creating conditions for foreign operators to also be users of Serbia's infrastructure. The law is based on the need to comply with the rules in the area of rail traffic with the relevant EU rules, as only partial harmonisation with EU directives establishing a single European railway area has been carried out in the existing Law on Railways, adopted in 2013. Given that railways are a vital part of the transport sector of EU Member States, that the efficiency of the rail system should be improved in order to integrate that system into a competitive transport service market, as well as that rail transport should be made more efficient and more competitive than other modes of traffic, it is necessary for Member States to allow railway operators to be able to operate in a commercial manner in accordance with market requirements. Operators will be provided with every share of traffic. Foreign freighters are already interested in carrying goods across the territory of the Republic of Serbia on their trains. The way in which the future functioning of the railway sector in our country is envisaged will enable the effective application of all four EU railway packages. The European Union has launched a procedure to unify the European Union's rail countries into a single system, with this not being about creating a single European railway, but rather about a unique and efficient traffic conditions without obstacles and discrimination from any participant. Special attention is paid to the regulation of combined transport, where most of the transport route is carried out by rail, which, despite its importance and potential, is largely neglected in the current Railways Act. The proposal protects the interests of all participants in rail traffic, i.e. all infrastructure managers, railway undertakings, i.e. network users, state-of-the-art, regional and local railways. In particular, I would focus on the provisions of Articles 14 to 16 which establish the procedure and method of access to railway infrastructure, the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity, the fees for the use of railway infrastructure and services provided by the railway infrastructure manager, discounts, system, indicators to improve the quality of transport and the management and monitoring of the allocated infrastructure capacity. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways provides for the removal of provisions relating to the safety of rail traffic in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on safety and interoperability of railways. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways sets out, correct and modernise many provisions, thus achieving a easier and more effective practical application of the law. In this respect, the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act provides for the protection of the interests of all participants in rail traffic, i.e. all infrastructure managers, railway undertakings, or users of the network of bus, regional and local railways. Amendments and additions to the Law on Railways are the only option for overcoming all these problems and the only way to make law enforcement practical and effective. I, Madam Minister, read exactly what I was reading, and I was deliberately reading, I could learn by heart, but I read what the people of the railroad read by reading the bill to me as their observations and approval of what you were talking about today. I'm going to vote on this bill anyway, but I'm going to use this pay phone to ask you for something myself. I come from Futoga, places where people are particularly emotionally tied to both the railway and the train, as well as most of the citizens of Vojvodina. I now understand why 80m euros are not invested in railways. Well, that's a duchess cantor in his song singing very nicely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36217	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36218	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, for the sake of our citizens and for the sake of the public, I will exclusively stick to the proposal to amend and supplement today's laws. If we look at them a little bit better, then we'll see why they're proposed changes and additions. This certainly isn't for criticism, it's for commendation. When we adopted this law in 2013, I was saying that the law basically has an ISO standard 9001, which has undergone amendments since 1994, so 2000, then 2008, then 2015, which, if we consider, we can expect some addition and some changes in the following year when this Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways is at stake. Therefore, we can only be proud of the founder, or government, or our Ministry, who has carefully analysed the proposed law for these years and a half, and have seen all the shortcomings, properly acted as a good manager and removed what it considers to be a distraction in the further development of our railway and in compliance with EU laws. As the minister also said, if the EU changes its laws in this area, we will certainly adapt and we will follow that pace. This is certainly not about condemnation, it's about praise, because it shows that we have a clear policy when it comes to railways, clear goals, planning, realization, and what's very important, and it's a systematic review. The fact that the railway is divided into certain continents suggests only one seriousness of the ministry to monitor all the activities that are happening in these companies, to control them more easily and to correct them more easily. In order not to take up my colleagues' time for discussion, I will not, in particular, look at any changes and additions you have given in this law, but it is clear that based on some of the previous events that took place in our railways, especially the current situations, the security measures introduced that will make our rail traffic much easier. Also, what is very important is that there is room left for the possibility that this system can function even when everything is not fully in line with the proposed technical specifications, and can refer to part of the traffic to be carried out locally, means only in the country of Serbia, provided all safety standards are respected. Also, when we have an improvement in the process, we can have so-called deviations in order to improve, and when we have so-called accidents or acidic situations. So, it was mostly thought about everything when it comes to these changes and additions, and in order to improve self-improvement conditions for the transport of passengers and goods, and of course to increase profits. I'm a little surprised that we had a so-called fear of the citizens during the debate. From all of this, we can conclude that there will be more work to be done on this basis, and therefore, more employment, rather than dismissal. As we know well, opposition colleagues are very manipulatively capable, so then we start from layoffs to potential layoffs, to unnamed sources, etc., but I don't allow anyone who couldn't even negotiate with the IMF today to honor us in co-operation with the IMF to tear up our railways and to sell them out. As the minister said, we will try to keep our rails on the world level and make our passengers happy and make a good profit in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36219	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36220	Thank you, Your Honor. I really won't take up much of my time, since I spoke about these two roof laws in 2013 too, the Law on Railways and the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways. I then took a lot of time, since I was also a member of the Railway Assembly right in front of the Republic of Serbia. Since I know that this ministry has made all the efforts, and we mentioned here today this very famous Russian loan, that it wasn't this ministry and the efforts of this ministry hard to get to the realization of this loan. Just by hiring the minister and her associates, we started this story at the end of last year, and the results are visible. You can see it worse in the North Corridor, and you can see it on Corridor 10, so I'm not worried about the future of our railroad. Everything says that our railway will be what it should be - one European railway, and these bills lead in that direction. These bill proposals are complemented by some of the good laws that we have passed in the previous period and that exactly harmonising with some of the liquids of all the countries in the environment and those who have moved far away from us, as far as this rail traffic is concerned, and that the overall participation of railway transport is not only 30%, as the minister said today, but rather on a much higher level. This mentions the reorganisation, the restructuring of "The Railways of Serbia". It is a good thing and I am glad that I, too, took part in this, at least in making some decisions in the ‘ Railways ’ Assembly. It is certain that there are problems and there will be problems, because the railway is something alive, something that works, and you have to change and adapt to both this time and some future that awaits us. After all, we're all human, we're mortal, and it's certain we won't get along in much, and eventually, so are those people who need to work together in these big companies and big companies. But since I know that behind all the decisions, both the Assembly of Railways and all three of these companies, the Government of the Republic of Serbia stands, and this ministry with its own advice, if nothing else, I know that we will handle it the right way. I would just look back here a little bit, and if I didn't take up a lot of your time, because I see that a large majority of fellow Members, other than a small number of MPs, are commending this law, as far as positions and opposition are concerned, and that we will have a large majority to vote on in the day of voting for these laws, I will just say what we need. So infrastructure. Infrastructure should be the basis of all this. And just when we're talking about rail and infrastructure, there's a picture I've been looking at for days, a pretty picture, and that's that big train that's going from Kragujevac to the King, Chačka and it's coming to Bar. I can tell you that it's nice and it brings me back to my youth, when the railroad was something nice, and there were a lot of movies from that time that mentioned the railroad, something that worked and that employed a lot of people. And it really works very impressively when you see a couple hundred cars on a composition like that. Something we're missing, it's also the minister's point that local self-government should be involved, and that's part of it from Stalac to Lapov. We from the Kings all the way there to the Bar have electrified railroads. According to Kragujevac, since I know that we've put the energy node in the King, according to Kragujevac, it's planned and electrified, we have a big problem with those shares from Guberevec to Vitanovac in front of the King, where we drive this 20km light ride, we don't have to drive 100, we don't have to drive 120, it's enough to recover the lower unit and make about 60 kilometers there. Therefore, it should include all those local self-governments, from Stalac via Kruševac, Vranjska Banja, Kraljev, Kragujevac, to Lapov, to the joint forces, and be some recommendation to the Ministry, to initiate the story to enable this section of the railway and thus to bind Nis and that leg 10 leading to Thessaloniki, with this leg leading to the port of Bar and Montenegro. I wouldn't take any more of your time. Anyway, in voting day, like the entire parliamentary group, I'm going to vote for this good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36221	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36222	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with his staff, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the aim of passing this law, and each other, is to comply with our laws with European laws, because we strive there, but also with our legislation and positive regulations and times in which we live, which is the 21st century. I have the impression that the opposition would want us back somewhere in the 19th century. We're a strange people. Whatever capital is going to be done, the opposition will be the trees and stones on what he started to build, or what he gave the idea. If it hadn't been for such people, we wouldn't have a Belgrade Palace today, a high building in Belgrade, a Calemegdan, a Novo Sad Fortress, a Smederjev Fortress, a Low Fortress. Worse times could not have been since 1945, so they built the Šamac-Sarajevo track, Brcko-Banovic and these railways to this day and day. It's the past for those people who enjoy living by two rivers, and its shores to be as they were 100 years ago or 70 years ago, that such shores reject visitors and that they have nothing to see but mockery. The Prime Minister has made sure that it does not, but that part of the city will change the image of Serbia and Belgrade. There's something to be done. As the Serbian government and its president do, everything must change from the root, such as "Belgrade on Water" or start reforms that produce excellent results. Finally, we also need to improve this Law on Railways with proposed amendments and additions to the law. The railroad is in catastrophic condition. We can thank this to the previous regime, as well as its infrastructure, technique, facilities, the permitted speed of our trains' movements, everything else technically belongs to "The Railways of Serbia". By passing this law and by applying it in practice, "The Railway of Serbia" has a perspective, especially as this will be closely monitored by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. The lagging behind in applying and harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia relating to rail traffic, in relation to EU regulations, as well as the restructuring of the "Serb Railways" and the overall rail traffic in Serbia, is an existing situation in the railway company. Their discrepancies with the railway in the environment of EU countries have arisen. This led to a discrepancy and investment in our railway, compared to other investments in Serbia. The biggest reason for not investing in our country is that the Railway did not restructure, i.e. reorganization. No one will invest in this organised "Serb Railway". With this law, I hope that all investors' concerns will be removed and that we will attract investors in the next period. Some of the consequences are already felt. The example works, which is the bypass of Corridor 10, which is the shortest road from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East, now these tours drive through Romania and Bulgaria. We need to get to the bottom of this as soon as possible and within a short time. This law favours Serbia's system of interoperable railway corridors where certain standards are met throughout the length, both in infrastructure and in quality. Such an investment system contributes to increasing the regularity and security of traffic. The outcome of such a system is Serbia's economic development. This facilitates and develops international rail transport, in accordance with the reconstruction, construction and equipment plan of railway lines, in line with the future needs of international transport to AGC. The Republic of Serbia will target capacity towards demand for rail services. The Republic of Serbia will have a strategic position on the Southeast European railway market in the implementation strategy for the coming period. This type of transport will represent an efficient and environmentally acceptable transport system. All the measures to be adopted and implemented by this law will be applied and implemented in this way by the order "Serb Railways", the capacity towards demand will be focused, meeting all requirements of internal and international transport. The Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Intermodal Transport in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period to determine the situation in these areas of transport, the concept of infrastructure and transport development, the long-term objectives of the development of the transport system, as well as the action plan for its implementation, should be defined, given the need for sustainable development of transport in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the most important thing in this law is the restructuring or reorganisation of railways, which without it would all fall into the water, and means reforming the railway company of the state institutions in the transport sector, and in particular the rail restructuring of the relationship between the state and the railways with the primary objective of creating a financially capable and market-oriented enterprise that can provide quality and safe transport of passengers and goods. in which the state plays a significant role. I, like all members of the SNS, will support this bill on amending and supplementing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36223	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36224	Dearly respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected guests from the ministry, respected citizens, we have been looking at two of the most important laws for the railways and traffic in Serbia for several hours now. In the case of the Law on Railways in Serbia and the Law on the Security of Interparabilities of Transport, or Railways, it is clear that the laws adopted in 2013 did not provide sufficient answers to questions. In 2013, at that moment, yes, but on this day, not according to this, we are changing that law. We change the law on our railways, we change the law in accordance with the needs of our railways, our citizens, and it should simply be a practice. The Assembly should simply consider all those questions that we do not have answers to, and at this point there are many changes in both law and law, which means that we will do whatever it takes to adapt the law to the railways and to our citizens. What is important, and probably the most important and not only for this law but for all those laws passed by SNS and this government led by Aleksandar Vukic, it is that there are no direct agreements under these laws, there are no harmful contracts and there are no agreements that will be at the expense of citizens, and to the benefit of a small number of people. This is what citizens know and recognize very well and know that all these laws we make, we bring exactly with a goal and only one goal to make the lives of Serbian citizens as good as possible. We'll make a parallel, I'll remind those who don't know, I'm talking about the Shabatz-Banja Mt. It is a railroad that was made or started to be built far away in 1906 on August 28th on the centennial of Misharic Color. For not four years, a track was built in the length of 54km of narrow August in just four years, for 2.5 million dinars at that time. At the time, the dinar was a little stronger than the German brand. What happened in the coming years was that in 1950, after World War II, the railway was reconstructed and an open track of normal width so that for years, bad investment and maintenance of that railway would simply stop carrying out passenger traffic and carry out only freight traffic, given that it was not being invested at all. From 2005 to today on the road, only freight traffic is being carried out by railways in the length of 54km. In 2012, the construction of the railway was done at a distance of 14 km and in that part, at a speed of 20 km per hour, up to 80 km per hour. What I want to say to citizens who don't know that in 2014 in the floods we had one big problem in the section of the railway in Lesnica up to 2.4 km long, believe it or not in just 16 days, you heard well in just 16 days the reconstruction of that railroad was done and the railroad was released. What's important is that this story I've been telling over 100 years ago was made the first railway on the route, more than 50 years ago a reconstruction of the railway was done, and this very government and this ministry will find strength in the coming years that precisely this railway connecting Serbia with Bosnia, namely Novi Sad and Ruma, Belgrade and Ruma, Shabac with Zvornik and the Federation of BiH, we will find a safe way to make this a fast track and rail that will restore passenger traffic as a measure of value for normal and modern European countries. Systemic laws continue, and just reforming the railway through these laws will be able to be completed and everything that has been done and what will be done gives us hope for us and our citizens that the railway Serbia has a future. What I'm going to finish, and my colleagues have already listed, and I'm not going to list which investment works are under way, or which projects are under way on the railways and there are plenty of them, and in order to not repeat them, in this year as far as I know, some 130 kilometers of railways have been reconstructed, or raised to a speed level of up to 80 km, and in the coming years we expect as much as 500 km. If we go at this pace very quickly, I'm talking about the Shabac-Mali Zvornik railway, i.e. Shabac-Banja Koviljača or Sabac-Zvornik, will get some new clothes and citizens not only of Shappac and Belgrade and Serbia will be able to have the service they deserve. One more thing and I end up, in the voting day, we must, of course, support, we do not, but we will, and so will our citizens, support the laws guaranteeing them the right railroad and guaranteeing them that in some period of several years they can count on the rails of the European level. What is important is that in the coming months we expect other laws that will give wind to both railways and other infrastructure facilities in the back and to our ministry and our businesses and companies that will hire new people and that will simply raise the level of traffic both by passenger and rail at the level that has already reached our air traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36225	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36226	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, fellow MPs and MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning, I must say that I will stick to two amendments and amendments to the Law, namely the Law on Railways and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of Railways, precisely because during today's debate some opposition MPs have repeatedly potentiated a subject that is not on the agenda in these laws, or should not be the reason for today's debate. I would also like to advise, to inform railway workers that no member of these two laws is concerned with the work of railway workers. The vision and mission of the government's SNSi, headed by its Prime Minister, Aleksandra Vukiceste, to provide conditions for Serbian citizens to be employed, not to create conditions for Serbian workers to be fired. Of course, structural reforms are necessary and it is necessary for employees who have something to do in each company. Therefore, it is also one of the priorities of structural reform. But I'm going back to these two laws. First of all, I want to express my great gratitude to the government, but to your Ministry of Ministers because last year at a time of the great elemental disaster that hit our country, which is the time of the flood, you managed to restructure and rebuild the complete infrastructure on Corridor 11, during the prescribed period followed by the dynamics of works, the “Savinac” tunnel on the international line Belgrade – Bar. The railway is also important for citizens of the southwest part of Serbia, primarily the Priboj municipality, which I also come from because it is the fastest connection with the interior with other parts of Serbia, primarily the fastest connection with Belgrade. Here my fellow MPs said that the railway was first opened 131 years ago, and this was the railway from Belgrade – Nis in 1884. That rail was moving at 40 kilometers an hour. During the previous regime, unfortunately the speed of the railway was reduced and we have heard that on some of the railways the speed of trains was 30 kilometers. But, Madam Minister, it's not the worst thing that happened to us at the time of the previous government, as far as rail traffic is concerned. Since I, too, am a very often consummate of railway services, i.e. rail transport, responsiblely argue that apart from the speed of 15 km very often full of railway stations, they remained full of passengers precisely because trains were cancelled and cancelled at the time when they were due to arrive in a designated official place. I would also like to point out that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways is above all a significant aspect of improving efficiency and improving economics, improving, creating market conditions for a healthy competition, because only by creating market conditions can we increase what security on the railways, how we can, of course, achieve an adequate price of services paid and goods carriers, but also paid by passengers. What I also want to point out in particular, and it is about this law, for this proposal, is a Article 64 relating to public private partnership and concessions. I find it very important, and in order to bring our railways closer and more competitive, a single European market. Of course, the EU's strategy is not to create a single railway, but to create such conditions that will be more efficient, which will be equal for everyone and will not be discriminatory towards any rail service user. What I particularly want to stress, and it is related to the second safety law, it is the harmonisation of this law also with European legislation, but also with the agreement of the Community of European Railways and European Federations, transport workers, and it is precisely for the working time of those who are the most responsible when passengers are transported, but also when goods are transported, which are engineers. In this law, their position is even with the position of their colleagues working on the EU market. Also, I would like to stress that there are also the competences of the Railway Directorate, especially in the section relating to the control of the certificates, given the responsibility of the railways, that they periodically exercise control of these certificates, just to determine whether there are still conditions for their use, and all in order to ensure the safety and safety of all participants on rail traffic. Also, I would like to point out that the Railways Directorate was given and the jurisdiction of an independent assessment, the common risk assessment method, and that is something new that appears in this bill, but I also want to stress that this bill has strengthened the penalties for unconscious natural persons who directly or indirectly influence and threaten traffic safety, including in this sense the fine with 100,000 dinars, which was otherwise the above, has been increased to 150 thousand dinars. Also, I would like to stress that in the section of the professional training of railway workers, some changes have been made, so the professional training of workers is performed, instead of four, now for two years, and what is also significant from the aspect of passenger safety and safety, is also the fact that the person who passes the professional exam has to drive for a year, to operate a train in the presence of an engineer with greater working experience. In any case, the railway is a vital part of the country's economic development. This government and this Ministry as responsible have recognized that the railway system is that improving the situation in the railway system is actually an improvement in the economic and economic situation. As reported yesterday, industrial growth in the Republic of Serbia has increased 13% compared to the previous period, I hope that the growth of rail transport will record even greater progress every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36227	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36228	Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, the Srljig municipality, through which the railway works. The Law on Railways regulates rail traffic which is one of the most sensitive topics at the moment. The main objectives wanted to achieve this law were improving the efficiency of the Republika Srpska railway system, its integration into the transport services market, as well as the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. On the one hand, the railroad is subsidized with large amounts and you're losing it. On the other hand, rail has always been the backbone of one country's economy, employs a large number of people, is a condition of survival for many businesses. It's very important for the transport of goods and people. In my municipality of Svrljig, the railway is for several villages located in the Svrljjska gorge, and this applies to the municipality of Književec, the town of Zaječar and it is the only link to the world. This railroad that passes through the Srliške ravine has a very interesting history. Due to the need of the Serbian army in the First World War and supply from Russia, it hastily worked to break through tunnels and build bridges to complete the last section of the railway from Prahova to Nis. Nearly 15,000 people worked day and night on construction, and the Russian Empire gave the necessary money. Prior to the completion of the work, the Serbian army began to withdraw and destroyed the newly built bridges. The bridges were designed by one of our greatest minds Milutin Milanković, and at the time he worked as a construction engineer and applied for the first time for some sources a revolutionary construction technique. Realising the importance of these same railways and works, Prime Minister Nikola Pasic regularly visited. What am I talking about? I want to point out that our railroad has been built by generations of great price and great effort and we must not allow ourselves to leave what our grandfathers have built and let go to ruin. No more thinking and talking about closing the Nis railway – Prahovo or any other railway in Serbia. I agree that certain directions are inert, so the railroad itself is somewhat inert. This does not mean, however, that we should surrender, shut down, and crash. It's the easiest thing to do is to close down all the lines that don't make any profit, anyone can. But we need to try to make the system more efficient, more economical, and eventually self-sustainable, with organisational and other changes. That is why the amendments to the laws on the agenda are proposed. The Railway Directorate followed the application of applicable laws, identified shortcomings and thus removed them, as well as compliance with EU rules. In this respect, the adoption of the law protects the interest of all participants in rail traffic, i.e. all railway operators and network users, state-of-the-art, regional and local railways. I'll take some data, specifically tied up, which you just heard, say, the age of the railroad is more than 40 years, the track was built on World War II, 3809 kilometers of the total length of the railroad, of which 33% is electrified. It's below 3% of the tracks at a speed of over 100 kilometers per hour. We maintain 14 kilometers [14 km] of track for the year, and according to the age of the railway, they should be reconstructed and maintained 200 kilometers. The finding, 2856.95 kilometers of railways, was built before World War II, 952.25 kilometers after World War II, and not one foot of rail was built in the last 20-30 years. What else can I say except that until 2012, the previous government had a number of things that had a bad effect on building infrastructure in the railway area. I fully support the proposal for these laws, as an MP in front of the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS MP's club, from the SNS list, and I fully support you, Deputy Prime Minister, regarding this part of the law, because we are witnessing the negative things that were done in the previous period, related to "The Railways of Serbia". In a conversation with the man who gave me a lot of information, I don't want to bother all of you with this information, and that man was the union president from 2001 to 2011, he has a number of information, which is information he received from all the workers, colleagues who worked in the Railways and people who were somewhat responsible for a lot of things that were done badly. There's information that's, like, very alarming. I would ask you, Vice-President of the Government, to welcome this man to you, or one of your associates, to bring you all the information he had as union president, and he's been working in the Railways for 30 years. So, Railways of Serbia, the railway infrastructure, is now working to improve. We use all those credits that were signed earlier, but on the other hand it should have been done much earlier, which is why the whole of Serbia suffers. I said, I come from Svrlig, a municipality located in southern Serbia, a municipality through which the railway passes, where it was said in 2007, that this railway would be shut down, that in some ways the transport of passengers would be stopped, and I just said that a large number of people from those villages have only that railway transport. So, I'm sure, because I really trust you, and the government of our prime minister, that all these things that are being said will not be so, but will continue to transport the goods in that part of the Nis-Prah railway, because the railway is very frequent in that part because a large amount comes from the Prahova towards central Serbia, and a large number of our investors, legal entities, are working and using that railroad to transport their goods. Once again, I fully support you, and I'm sure that you and our prime minister in charge, will be able to establish high-speed rails, and we'll use those high-speed rails. I will normally, as always and so far, as MP of the United Peasant Party, but chosen from the SNS list, vote for all these laws, and give you support because I think you're doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36229	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36230	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, honourable Members of the People, Honored Madam Minister and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, expressed great satisfaction that we often see you in this high house, which speaks of your work and activities of the Ministry, as well as the dedicated work of the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia to realize its work programme. Let me begin by saying one very important news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, published by the Economic Institute in Belgrade, quote: "Industrial production in us compared to last year has increased by 12.9%, external trade by 9.5% and exports by 12%. “ Congratulations, Madam Minister, to the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the Prime Minister, on the results achieved, and to the happiness and satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the future of our children, and to the satisfaction of the weak opposition, I suppose. I'll do it briefly, very briefly on the Law of Railways, since my colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot. This proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Railways has its foothold. In the framework exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who submitted to the MPs in this high house, the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April 2014. Dear People's MPs, not to forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic is the most comprehensive, most precise, most concrete, biggest, 52 typed dense sides and the best of all 72 previous exposés of the Serbian Prime Minister, from the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic, 1805 to today. Dear People's MPs, on page 17 of the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic writes, quote: "Serbian railways should be restructured and separated into three continents - passenger transport, transport of goods and infrastructure. Transport of goods is a profitable activity for which investors would be interested and should be privatised. Passenger traffic, infrastructure would be state-owned, but with clear rules what the state subsidizes. “ A quote from the Prime Minister’s exposé was completed. So it is ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, written in the exposé of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, and here today "The Railways of Serbia" have just been reconstructed and divided into three continents and the process continues. That's how the government of the Republic of Serbia does it, that's how its prime minister does it by system-written and accomplished. So, what the previous DS former regime authorities failed in 15 years, the SNS and this government, led by Alexander Vukic, managed to reconstruct this company for only one year. One of the most important reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to amend and supplement the Law on Railways is, among other things, a partial alignment with the European Community directive, which aims to establish a single, European, rail space. There is another, ladies and gentlemen, another very important reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself for the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Law on Railways, which is the necessity of harmonising our rules in the area of rail traffic with the relevant EU regulations. The adoption of amendments and additions to this Law on Railways will achieve three objectives. First, improving the efficiency of the railway system. Second, the integration of the Republika Srpska rail system into the transport services market and third, the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the former DS regime did not know or did not want to, and it will be that both go to the restructuring of this railway company, which they were talking about today, leading to a discrepancy with the EU rail system. This led to the fact that no investor wanted to invest in a lagging rail system. The consequences are the drastic DS of the former regime in the Serbian Railways, which led to the detour of Corridor 10, as the naturally most convenient route from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East and the detour of goods flows towards alternative routes across Romania and Bulgaria. The former DS regime's leadership, instead of the reconstructed Serbian Railways, carried out public service, corruption and crime of unprecedented proportions in the Serbian Railways. Here, just some data, respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs, don't be shocked when you hear these few data. First, the former DS leadership of the Serbian Railways spent 700,000 euros on fuel and maintenance of 103 cars, of course, respected citizens, from your pockets. Secondly, one former director of the former Serbian railway regime spent 10 million dinars in his restaurant, again, respected citizens, out of your pockets. Third, the team's costs amounted to 106m dinars per year, plus 20m dinars in their own rooms. Fourthly, the CEO of the former Serbian railway regime spent 300,000 dinars abroad again from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Fifth, he spent 26m dinars on fair and other events, again from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On one year's presents, 26 million dinars were spent, again respected citizens from your pockets. Seven, in 2012 alone, former DS leadership in the Serbian Railways spent more than 34 million dinars on daily and official trips, again respected citizens, out of your pockets. Eight, in 2012 alone, former DS union leadership, the Serbian Railways spent 50 million dinars for the country's diaries and 94,000 euros for foreign diaries, again, respected citizens, out of your pockets. And finally, the president of the Serbian Railways Union spent only three years next to the salary on diaries, believe it or not, 970,000 dinars and 20,000 euros on foreign diaries. Gentlemen of the former regime, that's why you didn't go into reconstruction, because the chaos, the Javaljuk, answered you, in such situations you personally went through the best. And in the end, you destroyed our past, you destroyed our present, you destroyed the future of our children, and if you had stayed in power for just one more year, you would have destroyed our roots. I call on you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to vote on this law and other laws in the day of voting, especially I call on you from a weak opposition to give your vote, because even so, at least a little demonstration of your commitment to modernising Serbia, which is so warmly represented by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, all of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this high house, and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36231	Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic is not there. People's MP Blagoja Bradic is not here. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic is not here. The word is made by MP Branka Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36232	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister with Associates, Honored Citizens, I will talk about the draft law on amendments to the Law on Railways. In short, I'm going to put forward some of my views on the proposed solutions in this law. We know that the current Law on Railways brought this National Assembly on 22 May 2013 and that a partial alignment with the relevant EU rules was made, all in order to establish a single European area. We are all well aware that the EU has launched this procedure for uniting EU rail countries into a single system, with a view to establishing more efficient, uniform conditions for this traffic, without obstacles, without discrimination. The aim is also to encourage private operators to do this job, and when competition is increased, we all know it, it is also obtained at the quality of services, both in terms of safety and in terms of the more competitive price of the product. However, in the course of the application of the existing Law on Railways, the shortcomings of the law were seen, and above all it had to be brought into line with the new packages of the EU Directive, and it was necessary to extend the section of the Railways Directorate. Of course, the aim of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Railways is to bring it in line with the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways. We see by reading the proposal of this law that some provisions are updated, some are precise, such as part of the law on the regulation and use of railway infrastructure, while special attention is paid to combined transport, where most of it is done by rail, and I note that in the applicable Railway Act, the part is largely neglected. We will conclude, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, to a considerable extent, corrects the very errors and indeterminates of the applicable law, which were observed during its application period. In that sense, I would also like to commend the current government in general, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, as well as the resolute minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, and her entire team, who zealously carry out entrusted tasks in a concrete sense, follow the law that was proposed and voted in this House, summed up how the positive aspects of his application, as well as the irregularities and failures that are precisely this way and should be removed. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Railways show that, above all, provisions on the safety of rail transport have been put in place, in relation to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways. Furthermore, this proposal amends and complements the Law on Railways in a more complete way protects the interests of all participants in rail transport, namely the infrastructure manager, railway undertakings, as well as the network users of the railway network. The proposed reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments to the Law on Railways are acceptable under the urgent procedure, because indeed no one is willing to invest in unreformed, outdated and inefficient railways. We know what happened when we bypassing Corridor 10 and turning goods flows towards alternative routes through Romania and Bulgaria. We can define our railway as a closed and under-regulated rail market with a lack of competition, with a growing number of passengers, goods, increased travel and transport times, with high dependence on budget subsidies. We are all well aware and clear that the current structure of the Serbian Railways cannot be maintained in the long term. Therefore, the new EU rules, which Serbia must comply with, which has just been done through this law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, as well as the results of the railway restructuring, give the Republic of Serbia a great opportunity to educate an efficient railway sector, and above all the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. The number of railways in Serbia is best seen from comparisons with the EU, where trains move at an average speed of between 200 and 300km per hour, while the average speed is on domestic lines of 44km per hour. So, just a few kilometers faster than the first train to traffic on a newly built railway Belgrade – Nis in September 1884. Only a third of the tracks are electrified, and only 3% of the shares of the trains can travel at a speed greater than 100 kilometers per hour. The fleet is 30 years old and 60 years old, and the tracks are ruined. Due to the poor state of railway infrastructure, about 100 train slips have occurred over the past five years, several thousand departures have been cancelled, and the duration of travel on a large number of lines due to a slow ride has been doubled. Undomestic and irresponsible behavior in the railway decades ago has led to such an invisible state. The solutions proposed in these amendments and supplementing the Law on Railways will affect all participants in the rail traffic process, and above all, as I have already mentioned, on the Railways Directorate, because it has been given the authority to regulate the rail services market, which is essentially a comprehensive concept, and means that the Railways Directorate will monitor and analyse the conditions of competition in the railways market, control the independence of the infrastructure manager, take measures to prevent unfair competition, bring sublaws and so forth. The regulated rail transport system will also foster the interest of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons for investment in domestic rail transport, infrastructure and rail transport. In this way, new businesses can be expected to operate in railway and rail infrastructure management and transport operations, thus creating competition on the market. Following the adoption of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Railways, it remains for the competent ministry, as well as the Railways Directorate, to adopt sublegal acts that will regulate individual legal solutions closer. In the voting day, I will support, of course, the proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36233	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36234	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I think that despite all the attempts by the opposition, which is my fellow Members and myself, I think that we should impose on the subject and raise the essential issues that are related to the application of this law, they did not bear fruit. We tried to open the question of the responsibility of those who only a year and a half ago passed a law that led to this, by your admission, that we have a reduced number of passengers, that we have a reduced number of goods, that we have a problem with the excess workers, that we have a problem with the application of that law and that today you propose 45 members of the law that should change from 111 which are 9 proposed and that you expect reforms. The Democratic Party has proposed 20 and some amendments. Those amendments are essential. They are directed in this direction to make proposals that will improve this law. In light of all the accusations we have heard today again and regarding the DS, given how false the truth is again spoken in this assembly room today, given the lack of interest of the minister and her colleagues for what we are saying, we expect that even the day we analyze the amendments to the atmosphere in this assembly will be the same. That says, gentlemen of the SNS, you're not ready to face your mistakes. This suggests that you will probably get into a situation very quickly to re-propose some amendments to the law in this area. It says exactly that at this point you do not have a clear vision and a plan that will continue to apply this law and what reflections will be for the citizens of Serbia in the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-09-0.u36235	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. We'll be working on Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
