ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the session to be attended by 148 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. Please, to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Susan Spasojevic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Branka Bosnjak, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Mirjana Dragas and Mladen Grujic. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 7th and 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 and the minutes of the Second Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those Rules to that Committee. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 18 and 20 February 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – voted 16 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 23 and 24 February 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 10 March 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. This session contains a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, the National Assembly should decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for bringing the debate together. I would like to put the motion on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, of the draft law on inspection supervision, which the Government submitted to the National Assembly on 3 March 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between KFW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15m euros for the project "Energy Efficiency in Public Objects", which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on veterinary co-operation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the election of judges elected for the first time as judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the use of sign language, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 20, out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to terminate the role of the President of the General Court in Panchev, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – no one with abstention – has voted 19, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has drawn up a proposal for an urgent procedure to consider the draft law establishing public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, submitted in the assembly procedure on 6 March 2015, which I proposed as the first item of the agenda of this session. This resulted in the automatic removal of this bill from this proposed agenda, since business conditions are no longer met that the National Assembly declares its inclusion in the agenda. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which, last September 26th last year, was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. I will try in these three minutes, which I have the right to convince the MPs to vote for the adoption of this proposal, to discuss our bill today. Dear gentlemen, last week the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Serbia which, as I understand it, we can interpret as a red warning for our institutions, and above all for the institution of the National Assembly, when it comes to the state of higher education in our country, gentlemen. In this Resolution, I believe that we have all read this Resolution, it says that the European Parliament, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, is particularly concerned that our institutions, and that means the National Assembly, have failed to deal with the big problem of plagiarism, and of course because our academic community has failed to deal with the same problem. For this very poor assessment of the situation in higher education is, of course, the executive authority, which individuals who are seriously suspected of having acquired diplomas, titles, promotions to ministers, mayors, etc. She is responsible, gentlemen, and the forwarding majority here, respected presidents of the National Assembly, in the assembly that has persistently refused to include in the agenda a session of the National Assembly the Bill on Higher Education, which defines the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen, as one of the basic principles in our system of higher education. I believe, gentlemen, that our debate on this proposal, and then the adoption of our proposal, would be an appropriate response from one institution, the most significant institution in our political system, to the great problem of plagiarism. This would also remove the forwarding majority here from one obstacle that put itself on our path, on our country's path to the EU. That's why I think it's good to discuss our proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23931	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", on 25 February this year. Do you want a word? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23932	Honored Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable MPs, our MP group has submitted three draft laws that in a unique and systematic way would solve the problem of the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs, but not only in the Swiss francs, but also in all those citizens who have a foreign exchange clause on their loans, and these loans concern primarily the solving of housing problems and the resolution of roof issues over those people's heads. Today as we discuss here, tens of thousands of families are afraid they'll be left without the flats they took on loan. And not only is he going to run out of apartments, but he's going to stay in debt slavery to the banks after that takeover. That's why we've submitted proposals for three laws. One of them is the law amending and supplementing the National Bank Act, which we suggest that the National Bank has an additional control function over banks, which concerns consumer protection, i.e. the user of financial services. Because now the National Bank protects banks, not citizens, or does not have the same attitude towards citizens and banks. Banks earn extra profits and citizens fall into debt slavery. In the National Bank Act, we added a provision that states that the National Bank performs the protection of the rights and interests of users of the services provided by banks, insurance companies, lenders of the financial services of the lising company, voluntary pension funds management companies, payment service providers, electronic money issuers in the event of a disturbance in the financial market that causes excessive damage to the users of these services. The chairman, in addition to my best wishes, cannot complete the exposure because the majority of MPs are not interested in the issue of consumer protection of financial services users and because they speak loudly. But I will continue even louder to be heard by both they and the citizens of Serbia. So, our parliamentary group's proposal is to protect financial service users who are in charge of Swiss francs, euros, who have lost their wages in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23933	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 167 MPs present. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted your proposal. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", on 25 February 2015. The word is made by the people Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23934	Thank you. Chairman, I hope now that I can freely present my proposal to amend and supplement the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. With this bill's proposal, these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, our MP group went towards protecting all users of financial services, all those who are in charge or planning to be in charge of foreign exchange loans. In this law, we have predicted that the zero provisions of the general terms and conditions that are beyond the basic contract are difficult conditions for customers of financial services. It happens now that only basic provisions are given in credit contracts, and in general conditions the weight of the burden on the users of these loans is prescribed, even if interest is increased, even if other burdens that burden these loans and financial services users do not even know themselves when they sign a contract for what they sign. In addition, we have provided for a very important provision that the burden of credit users cannot exceed 40% of their salary, and only if they agree in particular that it can be 50% of their salary. As the current situation, consumers, i.e. credit users, are burdened with the full salary, not only of their salary, but of their spouse's salaries, so that they have no money to live in, but all the funds they acquire have to give to banks that receive extraprofits and through these contracts that are at the expense of users, financial services, in that sense, I also ask the question, if you don't accept this law, how do you think that citizens who have credit rates 50, 60 or 100,000, will be able to live off the salary of 20,000 dinars, which, meanwhile, are reduced by the decisions of this Assembly and how do you think that people repay loans, when you cut their wages, have abolished past work and therefore this bill on amendments and additions to the law, is going to remove these consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23935	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on special conditions and the method of reconciliation of the obligations of residents of residential loans with the currency clause in the Swiss francs, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs from Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZZ, on 25 February of this year. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23936	The two previous laws concerned users of all financial services, and those of the citizens in charge of the francs and those in charge of the euro or possibly in US dollars, i.e. the currency of indexation in those foreign currencies. This Act on special terms and conditions and method of settlement of the obligations of the beneficiary of residential loans with a currency clause in the Swiss francs applies exclusively to the users of the credit of the citizens who are in charge of the currency clause in the Swiss francs. We predicted five models so that these citizens could settle their obligations, their loans, and that they could live normally. One of the models is that these loans are re-indexed into euro on the day of the conclusion of the contract, on the day of the conclusion, and that the re-indexed are re-calculated and that the account of credit users to see how much longer they are in charge or perhaps even subscribed, or paid off their credit. The second option we gave to the users of credit in the Swiss francs is that the currency remains a Swiss franc, but that the course should be before the adoption of the Labour Law, because the law is the point of binding to their economic Sunflower, the sunflower of Serbian citizens who are beneficiaries of financial services. So, he jumped the Swiss franc course, and in the meantime they passed the Labour Law, the Law on the Restriction of Salaries, which their salaries were reduced and in that sense they were prevented from returning their loans. The third option is for these citizens to return the bank's apartment and have the bank write off the remaining debt. Some citizens have no more credit capacity because their salaries have been reduced or have lost their jobs because of this poor government. Our proposal is that they have the opportunity to return the bank's apartment, but that the bank forgives the rest of the loan. The fourth option is that the people in charge of the Swiss francs return the bank's apartment, however, to remain as a protected, i.e. as a tenant in that apartment and after two years have the opportunity to buy that apartment, that the bank is obliged to offer them the apartment, and of course, at the newly estimated economic price of the apartment and that they have the right to intercept the purchase. I ask representatives of the ruling coalition to vote in favour of these proposals to protect these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23937	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution to resolve the status of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi, on 2 February of this year. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23938	Dear People's MPs, the minority SDA Sandzak parliamentary group, PDD, submitted on 2 February this year to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption of a motion for a resolution to resolve the status of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this resolution is contained in Article 99(1), paragraph 7 and the position of the 2nd member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Article 8(1). The Law on the National Assembly. With this resolution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sets out the basic frameworks for resolving the status of national minorities and for adopting a comprehensive strategy with a detailed action plan on resolving national minorities' status on the principles of the National Assembly Resolution and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU since 16 December 2013. This resolution is adopted in order to resolve the status of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the adoption of legal flows by the EU through harmonisation of laws and other legal acts, with respect to commitments made under international agreements and the signing of international instruments on the protection of the fundamental and collective rights of national minorities, which the Republic of Serbia has not signed or ratified so far. The adoption of this resolution will create conditions for successful formulation, adoption and effective implementation of a comprehensive national strategy with detailed social and economic analysis and a detailed action plan on the resolution of national minorities' status and inclusion in the whole process of its creation and implementation, legitimate representatives of national councils of national minorities, MPs with smaller electoral lists, as well as key stakeholders, as well as minority institutions and other organisations dealing with security, co-operation, protection of human and minority rights and the rule of law, including NGOs. Special success is achieved by developing a detailed social-economic analysis and by identifying its indicators for monitoring the human development index in regions where minorities traditionally live. The adoption of this resolution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will remove many obstacles on Serbia's path to the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23939	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23940	... Start with Chapter 23 relating to minority rights with which we start accession negotiations. This will express our will and willingness and determination towards full membership in the EU. I call upon the MPs to vote for this on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23941	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, the abstentioned - there is no vote of 168 MPs from the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 180. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft law concerning the restriction of the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs infringements and a joint principled single investigation into the Proposal for a Law on Movement with the help of the Guide Dog and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Social Security. Does MP Marinkovic want a word? (No) Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23942	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that this proposal is contrary to Article 157(2), which, among other things, is called upon by that position 2 states that the National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session and are conditioned or interrelated. So, I don't see any conditions and links between each other, let's say a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism and changes and additions to customs law. There is absolutely no connection between the two laws, except that it is in front of the government for the authorised minister who will represent the law in the Assembly of a certain finance minister, Dusan Vujovic. No ties, no solutions to each other are conditioned, and I call you to, I appeal to you, since in the past few days we have often talked about how this Parliament's dignity is collapsing, how the dignity of the MPs collapses, I call on you to defend Parliament's reputation and dignity here, by respecting our Rules of Procedure, we have asked to respect the law, to respect the rights and obligations of MPs, it comes from this Rules of Procedure. If we break him here again today, and this has become a pattern in this conference, then we cannot expect citizens to think much better of us, that they will understand and respect the integrity of the MPs, their obligations, their right to work here. So, in this way, we ourselves are destroying Parliament's reputation and we cannot call on it tomorrow, when some other things that attack Parliament's reputation and MPs are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23943	Thank you, I understand. In accordance with Article 92(2) and Article 157(2) and Article 170, MP Marinkovic took advantage of his right to propose to Parliament and MPs the merger of the debate by, of course, he has the right to do so, and parliament will now declare whether he wants to or not. A bigger, better, democratic way so far isn't invented on planet Earth, except for most, is it? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Not most. ) Well, perhaps by your standards most represent nothing, but by election will it represents much. Let's not discuss it, you didn't ask for it, you asked us to put in a vote for the merger of the debate and the proposal of Parliamentarian Marinkovic. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: My suggestion, a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Absolutely, we'll vote on it, yes. So, I'm putting a vote on a merger hearing. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, not by 31 MPs of the total number of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this motion to bring the debate together. Let the record show that MP Marko Djurisic asked to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure he made. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for addition and proposals for the merger of the debate, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 34 MPs out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. I'm asking the service to prepare a consolidated agenda. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15,000,000 euros for the Energy Efficiency Project in Public Objects, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the prevention, investigation and repression of customs offences, 5. Proposal for a moving law with the help of a guide dog, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Social Security, 7. “ I’m a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, ” 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the General Court in Panchev. We're going to work on a set agenda. In agreement with Article 90(1), I called for today's session to be attended by: Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Vujović; Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Vesna Hrlec Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance; Milovanovic, Director of the Ministry of Money Laundering at the Ministry of Finance; Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance; Predrag Aleksic, Head of the Customs System of the Ministry of Finance; Milunka Milanović, Senior Advisor at the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering at the Ministry of Finance; Milka Zivanovic and Jelica Trninić Šišović, Independent Advisors at the Department of Customs System at the Ministry of Finance and Marina Nesic, adviser to the Ministry of Finance. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law on the restriction of the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Law, the bill on the validation of the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15m euros for the Energy Efficiency Project in Public Objects, the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs infringements. I ask, does the proposing representative, finance minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23944	Thank you. Let me just have a few brief notes before the debate begins. First, the law, i.e. a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, is a law that de facto harmonises legislation with the ratified UN conventions signed by Serbia on the one hand, and, on the other hand, fulfils the obligations arising from membership in the Council of Europe, given the great delay in the adoption of all these rules, it is necessary to urgently adopt laws on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. As you know, these are international laws and norms that have been accepted by a large number of countries and our intention is to fulfil these obligations with this law. The goal is to improve the fight against terrorism, establish a system of preventive and repressive measures against terrorist financing, as well as the previous necessary phases in carrying out all terrorist acts. The existing laws don't regulate it. It is necessary to regulate the restriction of the availability of terrorist property, i.e. marked persons defined by this law, which has not been regulated in our legislation so far. This bill prescribes actions and measures to limit availability. The designation of designated persons shall be based, i.e. the list shall be determined by the Government, on the basis of three sources of information. One is the UN, the UN system, the other is information from competent state authorities and third is possible information from others, i.e. the request of other countries. The draft law lays down, provides for a temporary restriction on the availability of assets until all other procedures are implemented. This de facto law allows Serbia to respect all obligations towards the UN, according to the Council of Europe and all other applicable international laws. The second law proposed is the law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act. The main provisions of these amendments are the introduction of a new computerised transit system that would allow Serbia to facilitate the implementation of the transit procedure, a prerequisite for accession to the Convention on Common Transit. Given our plans to effectively engage in the system of European highways, roads, railways and so forth, it is crucial that we have been regulated by the law of transit conditions, so that Serbia can be an equal participant in the process. It's not just the slow rails and roads that are the reason for the delay, it's the procedure at the border. Therefore, this is a prerequisite for Serbia to get involved in this. Also, the draft law amending and supplementing the customs law allows for further compliance with EU customs laws. Another newspaper introduces, and this is accepting not only bank guarantees, but also other forms of security of customs debt. Finally, this amendment and the addition of the law ensure compliance with the Law on Infringements, i.e. it is possible to facilitate customs infringements under Article 295. Customs law applies the Law of Infractions. It's the technical side. The third law that is in the debate today is the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, i.e. ratification of the loan agreement between KFW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia for a project of energy efficiency in public facilities. As you probably know, a project of energy efficiency in public buildings has been massively implemented in a large number of countries where small investments have been made by huge savings in schools, museums, public buildings in general. The project reiterates these good experiences and loans, which are given up to 15m euros under extremely favourable conditions with a fixed interest rate of 2.1% per 12 year period, which will return Serbia to 19 consecutive half-year wars by 30 December 2017, provide funds to enable the initiating of energy efficiency and savings programmes in public buildings, schools, above all, and all other public facilities. Serbia will, publicly and publicly, pay 0.25% so-called. Interrect interest on undrawn assets and pay a commission to organise a work of 0.5%. The deadline for withdrawal is 30 December 2017, so until the end of this loan. The loan also provided a 1.3m-euro donation, as well as a contribution from local self-government of 1.5m euros. Therefore, these funds will further soften the terms of this loan. I wasn't counting, but I think it's so-called. Grant element very significant at these rates of at least 50%, perhaps more. Finally, we have a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs offences. This law is, as you can see, connected by content to the first law, and all these laws are linked not only by the Ministry of Finance responsible for them, but by the administrations that are here are working together both daily and operationally and on the strategy. An agreement that is confirmed between Albania and Serbia creates a legal space for the customs authorities of the Contracting State to provide each other with administrative assistance and exchange of information under the conditions provided for in this Agreement in order to ensure the correct application of customs rules, prevention, investigation in the fight against breach of customs regulations. Support under this Agreement will be provided in accordance with the national legislation of the Contracting Parties. This is a type-approval agreement. Therefore, the agreement only now extends to relations between Serbia and Albania. There are no special newspapers compared to similar agreements signed with other countries or between other countries. This Agreement is signed in order to warn and combat violations of customs and other regulations, combat smuggling, facilitate and speed up goods and passenger traffic between the two countries and exchange of experience in the work of customs authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23945	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23946	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today I will use the time at my disposal in this principle debate primarily to say something about the first two draft laws, therefore, on the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism and the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code. As for the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, I think it's very good that it's on the agenda, which is what we have a chance to say about it today. The fact is, we're pretty late on passing one of those laws, but good. Of course, the fight against terrorism, as has already been widely known, should almost daily be promoted, especially when we speak in the financing segment of terrorism, which as such has always preceded its conduct. Therefore, given the weight of the matter concerned with it, it is necessary that this area of restrictions on the availability of property, and in order to prevent terrorism, is regulated by law, because this type of matter has absolutely not been regulated by our legislation so far. The fact is that certain parts of this matter are regulated, when I say some parts, I primarily think of the crimes that have been incriminated by our Criminal Code, such as predicting criminal acts and international terrorism and the criminal act of financing terrorism, but it seems insufficient for this whole area to be regulated in one system way. It is necessary to establish this legislative framework to take preventive measures to prevent terrorist financing, as is necessary absolute co-operation of all countries at this very level. The necessity of passing a law like this stems from the fact that we and Egmont are part of the group, i.e. International Financial Intelligence Service Organisation, which has been a member of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering since 2003. Such a fact simply forces us that if we are not so far, then, in some future period, as quickly as possible and as we fully comply with the regulations in the area of international co-operation. When it comes to the fact that money laundering, as well as the financing of terrorism, is always mentioned in the front row about criminal acts with an element of abroad, it is known and then, in addition to international co-operation, it is necessarily assumed and the existence of a quality legislative framework, to which this law contributes, I say not completely, but in any case, it contributes at least to the part of the matter it regulates. So far, it seems that the best results in the fight against terrorism, and this shows not only a mere theory but also a practice, in fact, are being achieved by preventive action and it is nothing new, therefore, by removing all the causes that terrorism and leading to, and not only the emergence of terrorism, but it seems to me to be one of its permanent existence in whatever form. It seems that he is almost constantly present, therefore, to exist in his different appearances. When we talk about prevention, the fact is that in the first place, it is necessary to take all those actions aimed at preventing terrorist financing, but also at many other actions, such as preventing illegal training, creating, in fact, building illegal facilities to train terrorists, preventing legal and particularly illegal procurement of weapons, tracking, detecting, preventing terrorist acts, constantly exchanging information, continuing exchange of experiences in the fight against terrorism between countries, etc. Article 2 of this proposal of the Law on the Restriction of Property in order to prevent terrorism is determined by the terms and definitions of restrictions, the availability of assets, the definition of assets, the concept of a designated person, the financing of terrorism, the definition of terrorist acts, the definition of terrorist organisations and the definition of a justifiable belief that he is a terrorist person, that he is financed by terrorism, that he is involved in the activities of a terrorist group or in the pursuit of a terrorist act. When I talk about this article, Article 2, of the proposed law that we're talking about today, I have to make one criticism today, actually, it's more suggestive, it's possible that it can be removed and amended, a little bit of doubt, and I'd like to, if there's a possibility that, after the presentation, something tells me more about what I'm going to say. When I say criticism, I mean, as I said, a suggestion, and it refers to a definition, a definition of a terrorist, where this bill defines itself as a person who, just or with another person, I stress, with the imagination of inciting or helping to execute a terrorist act, has knowledge of the terrorist group's intention to carry out a terrorist act, contributes to the execution or assistance of a group of continuing terrorist act with a common purpose. In fact, since I mentioned some of the crimes that our criminal legislation knows at the very beginning, since I mentioned some of the acts that our Criminal Law provides for, which is incriminating international terrorism as a criminal offense, I think it's completely excessive to state here, in this kind of provision of wine, and the fact is that terrorism can't be done otherwise, unless the form of wine is imagined. There's a direct imagination here, and it might be a question of contention and potential imagination, but what's for sure is that any terrorist act, at least I don't know that practice knows something like that, I don't think it knows it, I think it's very hard to imagine that a terrorist act can be carried out out of vain. So I think this definition that says "imaginatively" is a complete surplus. That's what our Code of Criminal Code means, and that's how it determines. That's my suggestion. Of course, it can be removed by the amendment route. Of course, it's my one clue. It's not my clearest definition from the same article. So, I'm still talking about Article 2 of point 8 where it is said – justifiable belief that the face of terrorists, that terrorism is financed, that it is involved in the activities of a terrorist group or in the pursuit of a terrorist act, I will now, of course, stress - that degree of conviction that a reasonable man, average intellectual ability, can acquire on the basis of evidence, facts that are generally known or evidence or credible information that are held by the competent state authorities. I think this represents a pretty confusing provision, because the provisions of the law, when we shape them here, whatever we accept certain amendments, should not only be clear to us and the National Assembly as legislators, but should be absolutely clear to all citizens of Serbia. That's why I find this provision quite confusing. I understand the legal standard, justifiable confidence. It is completely acceptable and it is something completely different from the criminal standards, and I understand that, but I do not understand the structure that reads – the degree of conviction that a reasonable man of average intellectual ability can acquire on the basis of evidence. Personally, I think that such insertion is a complete excess, completely unnecessary normation, a burden on a legal provision that is rather clearer and more unequivocal without it. My personal point of view is that it represents excess and I'm always about the fact that legal provisions don't have to be burdened by anything that could bring additional confusion, additional interpretations or doubt. With regard to the very procedure for marking a person, I think it's quite well prescribed by such a bill, and it starts with a list of marked persons on three different basis. So, a list of the United Nations and other international organisations in which the Republic of Serbia is a member, then a designation of a person on a proposal from the competent state authorities and what it represents. The third basis is the reasoned request of another State, which finds its basis in Resolution 1373, which requires countries to consider, if there is a reasoned belief, a solution to the list of designated persons. As regards the case before the court, which is governed by Article 7 of this Bill, the solution as a form of regulation of a list of designated persons is only possible, so this is a fairly common solution with the possibility of conducting a administrative procedure by a person who is put on the list of designated persons. The public criterion is satisfied with the form envisioned that such lists are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but also envisions the publication of amendments and additions of such lists. Here, the criteria for public and availability could be extended, for example by publishing on the official website of the ministry or administration. Well, good. On the other hand, it is good that it is taken into account, it is not exceptional, no one has interfered with the mind, about the protection of human rights, all those persons who are marked and, in that sense, the obligation of the Republic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is envisaged, precisely for reasons of respect for human rights, to consider, at least once a year, the justification for the adoption of a solution on the list. Special protection against the abuse of economic operators for the purpose of financing terrorism, as well as the prevention of possible abuse of a terrorist financing association, are achieved by Article 8 of this Bill, and the need to put the accent first and foremost on the association is something that international standards bear witness to, therefore, pay particular attention to, and because of the perceived need that associations, as a form of legal form, are mostly impacted and more susceptible to the impact of such abuses. I will use the presence of the finance minister, who today is authorized on behalf of the government in front of these draft laws. I have to ask, let's say, that's the same misunderstanding I have, why are there no financial entities involved besides these listed entities, the same Article 8 and Article 6? I don't get it. I don't think it would be extra, and I think the provision could be more complete and could be more meaningful. As for the prescribed procedure in the administration, and based on the notification made, I think the provisions that regulate it are more than clear. It is not necessary to further explain, as well as explicit provisions governing the duration of the restriction, the availability of the property, the management of the property, the availability of which is limited, the use of part of the property, etc. Of course, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill. We think it is necessary, that it is necessary, although it is clear that it is only in one part, so I will not go too far if I say in one small piece, completes and contributes to the matter of fighting corruption and financing terrorism. I think we should back him up, if we're aware that very often we end up infamously when it seems to be our country's assessment of progress in this area. In addition, I think that by adopting one of these laws, on the other hand, we are meeting international obligations, but also ratified by international legal acts. As regards the second draft of the law today on the agenda, it is the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, and I think that the proposed amendments and additions to this Customs Act should be seen in the light of one which is more rapid in customs procedure, the reduction of costs in external trade, as well as compliance with European standards, i.e. EU legislation and in general with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. If we come from the economic interests of our country, which to be absolutely clear, are always in the first place, which is also the purpose of this law, then it is perfectly logical that today we are discussing changes and additions to the work that regulates the matter of customs offences. On the very working methods of the customs authorities, on increasing the effectiveness of the work of customs authorities, on their productivity, on achieving a balance on the requirements that are being put before them, on doing control actions, on doing activities that my esteemed colleague Mirko Chikiriz has repeatedly spoken of, when these topics were mentioned, I think that all of these issues are now simply proposed in a more complete, I would say, a more comprehensive way that, in fact, as a new way, just depicts the real situation. I would not call it modernization, as it is stated in the reasons for the adoption of this bill, but with one final need that I think should be clear to all of us, and that is that the regulations are finally following a practical life, and we are witnessing that these two sides are the same medals, very often in the process. Of course, I will not be involved in this presentation, which does not mean that I will not do so when we discuss in particular this bill, those amendments and additions relating to the addition of these amendments and the addition of the Customs Code, the applicable law on infringements, I think it is quite normal to agree with other regulations, nor to those amendments and additions that they represent, to say the mere terminology, which is again justified, but as a light point of course, Article 4, which changes the whole, still valid Article 59 of this law, which regulates the introduction of goods into the customs territory, and in order to ensure the application of a new computerised transit system, which is also present in the solutions of the EU Customs Law, as a compatible application for national transit. Of course, when it comes to amendments and amendments to the Customs Code, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group, will also support this bill, of course, in the voting day, and on any more concrete proposed solutions, we will talk about something more when we discuss in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23947	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23948	I thank the president. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we have two very important laws and two agreements ahead and the reasons for their adoption are, in my opinion, my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group and justified and multiple. As for the proposal for a law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, it is in the interest of the Serbian state. We are meeting our international obligations, harmonising our legislation with international conventions and resolutions, and in my opinion, the most important reason is that money laundering and terrorist financing, criminal acts, and there is a need for coordination in the fight against the terrorism of our institutions, in particular the anti-money laundering administration with the relevant authorities of foreign states and international organisations, such as this. Egmont's group, as mentioned in the explanation for law-making. It is clear that the terrible expansion of terrorism is globally and that there is no more society, no more country that has been developed and that it is safe. The world has now become advanced thanks to the development of modern technologies, but unfortunately with modern technologies progressing and terrorism that has become a global phenomenon and I can only mention something we all know, but we should always mention and we must never forget the attacks on the newspaper satirical magazine in Paris, recent events in Belgium and Denmark. However, the biggest problem at the moment, when it comes to world terrorism, is the Islamic state, which is expanding its operation, not only in Iraq, Syria, but also in Libya and cannot be mentioned at this time by the most notorious and cruel terrorist organisation in Nigeria, Africa's Boko Haram, which has recently been declared in the media as an organisation that wants to join the Islamic state. For this very reason, I would like to mention once again that no country is safe anymore, so that Serbia must not look at all these closed eyes, especially because we are at the crossroads of our geographical position, then because of the fact that a large number of illegal migrants are passing through our territory, and we are also a country which, due to the events of the 1990s, continues to carry on its shoulders a war legacy. All of these are the reasons why the authorities and institutions have found that they should be careful, which, of course, applies to our citizens. That is why it is certainly a good solution that this law mentions in several places the need for close co-ordination between the Directive on the Management of Disposal of Assets, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Services of the Ministry of the Interior and Foreign Affairs, as well as courts and public notebooks. Regardless of the fact that terrorist activities are generally justified by high motives, ideals, my opinion is that in the end it's all about money and that if we manage to cut off money flows from all terrorist groups, I think we're on a good path to curb terrorism. Because, as I said, ideals and some idols and, in general, the fact that they act for these reasons of religious fanaticism and others, I think they are in the second plan, and that in the first place, this financial reason is because they also point to huge amounts of money that unfortunately they are looking for to buy out foreign citizens, as well as exploiting historic sites in the area under their control. It is very important that this law, as provided for in the shortest possible time limit all business activities of persons engaged in terrorism. It is also very important that the list of these terrorist organisations is constantly updated by our competent ministry in coordination with international organisations. It is a good proposal to submit a regular report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Article 8 requires legal and physical persons who establish that they are in any business relationship with such persons, to inform the competent authorities within one day. I think it's the fastest possible deadline for such a bill to be envisaged by its application very quickly suspending all activities. It is then anticipated to provide available data on the person and property and to prevent any type of traffic. When it comes to these violations provided for in Article 20, I personally think that there should have been fines more severe for the responsible persons working in the court, the APR and the notaries, because in the event that they do an over-the-counter on immovable property or that they register against the provisions of the law, they still directly assist persons who are suspected of being involved in terrorist activities and that they have property. As for the amendment and supplementation of the Customs Code, it is a fully clear strategic commitment of the Republic of Serbia to obtain full membership in the World Trade Organisation and that this is one of the basic reasons for the proposal for this law. The proposed solutions also harmonize the infringement provisions of the Customs Act with new solutions in the Law on Violations of 2013. An infringement warrant is being introduced as a new institute to simplify the procedure in the case of milder customs offences and a more legitimate flow of money in the budget is expected. Decision proposed in Art. The 14th and 15th laws are more flexible than the existing ones, thus making progress compared to current practices. If the customs authorities assess, on the basis of their powers, that the proposed guarantee is adequate and acceptable as a guarantee, any domestic legal or natural person may appear, while so far the balance has been processed exclusively with the bank guarantee as a form of security of the payment of the customs debt. When it comes to the loan agreement with the German financial institution KFT from Frankfurt, signed in November last year, the fact is that Serbia's ratification is in debt for an additional 15m euros. However, when assessing each contract, I think it is necessary to carefully weigh what is gained in their perspective. The project energy efficiency in public facilities is primarily related to school buildings and aims to help create better conditions for the stay and work of students and teaching staff in schools and other educational institutions. I think it is envisaged that in more than 30 schools in the Republic of Serbia, these funds are invested to improve energy properties. I think the good terms of this contract are also because it's a fixed interest rate at about 2.1% per year, that the duration of the loan is 12 years, and we have a grace period of three years. The fee is only 0.25% a year, but I think it's very important that when we take the loan, we start using the funds as soon as possible, that the projects are ready and that regardless of the penalty, which is the minimum we pay, it's still part of the money that shouldn't go this way. Any bilateral or multilateral agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia is in principle in the interests of the state, i.e. citizens, and therefore you will always have the support of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group for this. Thus, this agreement with Albania facilitates customs procedures and allows for a more effective fight against smuggling and other forms of violations of customs regulations. Such an agreement will certainly get even more on the topic if there is a realisation of announced, significant, infrastructure projects such as the construction of the Niš - Tirana highway, i.e. the reconstruction of the railway Belgrade – Bar with an extension towards the ports of Durres and Valona on the Adriatic. The New Serbia Parliamentary Group will support both of these laws in the day of voting and both of these agreements, and finally, Mr. Minister, I have to take the opportunity to ask you about the company "Saratekst" in Raca, which has employees of 35 to 40 workers, better say textile workers and which achieves export turnover on a monthly basis...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23949	MPs, I'm not gonna let it go past the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23950	... Okay, it's okay, but it's very important. I still have time. Then I'll inform the minister myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23951	I believe, I do, and I ask you to ask that question on Thursday, and the minister will answer, because then she would open up the possibility of everyone asking more questions on the agenda. Indeed, I appreciate that it is extremely important and just a reminder of the procedure. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23952	Thank you, President. Dear ministers and members of the ministry, fellow MPs, terrorism as one of the forms of political violence can be freely characterised as the most significant challenge today, both for the state and its authorities, and for the UN. Documents adopted by the UN in order to improve anti-terrorist action have shown a number of their shortcomings in practical implementation. The professional public on this issue has argued on shortcomings such as the lack of a single definition of terrorism, then on the fact that conventions favour the functioning of national bodies and do not allow territorial jurisdiction. The special vulnerability of the conventions is that their generality leaves the countries great freedom in their interpretation and application. Although there are a large number of international anti-terrorist acts that need to prevent and suppress anti-terrorist activities, they appear to be insufficiently effective, and points to the urgency of their modification and transformation in order to eliminate the cause rather than the consequences. This fact is also supported by the information published by the London Institute for Economic Sciences and Peace. In 2013, it was said to have been close to 10,000 terrorist attacks, 60% more than the previous year, and more than 18,000 people died in these attacks. The state is obliged to protect its institutions and citizens from any kind of violence, including modern terrorism. Therefore, national states are very often, in addition to preventive measures aimed at deterring terrorist activities, also take repressive measures related to the application of criminal and administrative sanctions against the perpetrators of terrorist activities. The law and international standards determine how to prevent terrorist financing and money laundering, and therefore the implementation of these measures is not in the jurisdiction of only one institution or one state. The nature of financing terrorist operational and accompanying activities varies depending on the type of terrorist organisation. However, the total cost of terrorist attacks is very often low as the result of such attacks, and this also shows the following estimates of the UN resolution, where it is said that the train bombing in Madrid -- costs are estimated at $10,000, a bombing in Jakarta at $30,000, bombings in Istanbul at $40,000, a bombing at an embassy in East Africa at as much as $50,000. Serbia, as a full member of the UN organisation, has an obligation to bring national legislation into line with UN conventions, which are signatories. Like all UN members, it has an obligation to implement UN Security Council resolutions. One such repressive measure initiated and adopted by this bill refers to activities aimed at sanctioning terrorists, terrorist organisations and their finances. The repressivity of the measures implies complex actions in order to prevent the use of the territory of the countries by terrorists and their financiers, but to control the borders in order to prevent such persons from crossing the territory of the Member States. Therefore, States are obliged to include in national legislation a measure relating to the prevention of the use of the assets and assets of those persons, i.e. to restrict the availability of assets and assets located on the territory of those countries. Also, the Republic of Serbia as signatories of the International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Financing had an obligation to classify terrorist financing as a particularly criminal offence, which was also done in the provisions of Article 393. Criminal code since 2006. Limiting the availability of terrorist assets, i.e. the marked faces have not been regulated in our legislation so far. Therefore, the proposal for a law on preventing the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism aims to establish legal mechanisms for freezing property to persons on terrorist lists and their financials and helpers. It is also foreseen by the legislators that the bill regulates how those persons will be marked, how a solution will be made to restrict the availability of property, etc. The rise in extremism in Europe and the potential threat to the region concerns Balkan analysts, as the Balkans has always been one of the thorny areas in terms of terrorist threats. It is the only part of Europe, not including the Soviet Union, where brutal wars took place before the end of the 20th century. That is why very often the Western Balkans region is referred to as a transit for Middle Eastern terrorists to Western European countries. In the last five years, individuals who spent part of their lives in the Western Balkans, Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija, participated in most of the terrorist acts that took place in Western Europe. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, terrorism is justified as a security risk, a challenge and a threat, and under the conditions of global terrorism, the Republic of Serbia can be the target of terrorist action, both directly and using its territory. A special accent is placed on Serbia's face with ties to terrorism with all kinds of organised and cross-border crime. Therefore, MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will support this law because all of this requires our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23953	Thank you. The word is Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23954	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the very beginning to say that Unique Serbia will vote in favour of all four proposed laws. I think the minister explained quite well what we have on the agenda today. I may have seen from a slightly different angle the bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act, so I might be the most based on that law. Since 3 May 2010, namely, new Customs Law has been applied in Serbia, but what may be a little confusing in all this is that some other members of the Customs Act from 2013, i.e., more specifically, in the part of Article 252 to Article 379. Of course, there was one need and obligation for the parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia to systematize and install these laws into a law that we now have before us. As far as I'm concerned, and I think I'm doing it pretty well, this law has been on hold for six years. I must also commend the Customs Administration and the Customs Director who managed to force the law to be passed in the assembly procedure. What this law changes, which is not technical matters, first, just the harmonisation of the law with the infringement laws of 2013 is that it represents a technical matter, such as a technical matter and compliance with EU standards and regulations, but some of the things that this law introduces are certainly things that will facilitate both customs officials and customs officers and those who are dealing with customs to pass without some major Peripetia throughout the process. Namely, one of the most important things to be introduced is the Institute of Criminal Order and the fine that will be expressed in a fixed amount, which means that at the scene, customs officers will be able to determine the sentence and collect the fine. What's important and what I want to point out is that, of course, some say that these fixed penalties are going to amount to not knowing how much money, so just to draw attention to the fact that so far the penalty range has been from 5,000 to 500,000 dinars, and I think it's quite correct that a fixed portion of the penalty for a particular offence is prescribed on 100,000 dinars, of course, plus 10,000 dinars for a physical face and 50,000 dinars for entrepreneurs. These 50,000 dinars have been increased, but it has its own reasons, for the simple reason that the laws for responsible persons have not yielded fruit and it has happened that those responsible persons have repeatedly repeated violations, regardless of what they have been punished so far, so we must certainly welcome this increase. Of course, this law still agrees with the misdemeanor law, which is the payment of half the fine imposed within a period of voluntary payment, which will certainly speed up and charge the budget and meet the greater mood of those who have committed that they can pay a fine that is 50% lower than that of pending court proceedings. Also, as important as it is, we will disburse the state administration and courts, and we will not have a large number of judicial proceedings concerning customs offences. Another thing that is very important for all commercial entities dealing with the import of goods is that no longer a bank guarantee for payment of obligations to customs, but enough for any person with residence, or any person based in the Republic of Serbia to guarantee that your amount will be paid. The powers which customs officials have not yet clearly laid down in the laws applicable now are certainly the powers to be given to them in the course of ex post controls, by precisely determining what a customs officer may require of a person at the time of subsequent controls. So it's whether it's temporary to confiscate, retain or ban certain documents, as well as powers when entering business premises that customs officers know exactly what's in their jurisdiction. No law has ever been described before. Of course, the powers of customs officers involved in internal customs control, which is very important in order to combat corruption. Some will say that the possibility of collecting and giving sentences on the spot will allow certain things to be done, as our people say, under the grain. However, the introduction of video surveillance, which is also prescribed by this law, allowed for the controls on imports of goods and the work of customs officers to be carried out. What I especially want to point out is that customs work is not an easy job and that customs work is a job where people who are employed in the service are often exposed and controlled by goods that are harmful to health, which is not transported in accordance with regulations and which can endanger their health. I therefore particularly welcome the possibility for the minister to express himself to customs officials in terms of an increase in the coefficients that can be up to 30% of their earnings, as well as the possibility of rewarding for exceptional results, which certainly means for people who are employed in customs. The passing of a customs exam is also one of the newspapers that is being introduced as the obligation of a special expert examination for customs officials, which has also not been described in any law. What I think customs services and employees deserve is certainly to introduce and determine the day of customs administration and flag and their mark, and as this law provides, it will be 25 May as a fixed date. What I particularly want to draw attention to, and you will agree with me that we from the JS know that we praise everything that is good, so as we praise the good moves of the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Prime Minister Vukic, the good moves of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, I want to take advantage of the opportunity, because we are not often in a situation to talk about the Customs Administration in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to commend the Director of Customs Administration, Mr Milos Tomic, for what we believe is an extraordinary result since he came to the head of the Customs Administration from 1 October 2013. I'll just give you a few details, and I won't take too much attention. I want to compare the payment for the period from 1.10 to 31 December 2012 and for the same period, i.e. the first three months of business of the customs administration headed by Milos Tomic, where the charge went up by 21,353,83.19 euros. I would like to say that for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2013, the entire year, and throughout 2014, the increase in the bill rose by 11.7%, which is 350.069.592.17 euros in money. Here's to compare Mr. Tomic with himself and say that in the first two months of 2014 and the first two months of 2015 she jumped the charge by 8.16%, i.e. for 34.888,094.38 euros, which means that Mr. Tomic is making progressive progress and we have to commend that. Here's another piece of information on customs efficiency. Not to say now what was seized, but what attracted my attention is that during 2013, the Customs Administration seized a total of 3,911,740 pieces of cigarettes and 800,643 kilograms of tobacco. Compared to 2014, the amount of cut tobacco was seized in a double total quantity of approximately 1.6 tonnes. I can't accept that tobacco wasn't smuggled into the same amount, but I can accept that customs service did a little better work. For that, of course, I want to commend Mr. Tomic once more. I would like to thank you once again for your attention and to point out once again that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the Single Serbia vote will certainly support all four proposals that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23955	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The esteemed ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will, of course, support all four laws that are in front of us today. I'll put a focus in my discussion on the first two draft laws. I'm not dealing with agreements. I'd like to say a few words first of all about the law on restricting the availability of property, in order to prevent terrorism. This law, although not mentioned in it, is in fact part of a broader framework, which is a National Strategy for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was adopted only a few months ago. In this national strategy against money laundering and terrorist financing, recommendations, so-called units for financial action, i.e. Financial Action Task Force, 40 of them, so-called FATF 40 recommendations, but also included recommendations and remarks made by the European Commission. These 40 recommendations, these FATF 40 plus nine specific recommendations concerning the prevention of terrorist financing are very important because they are recognised as an international standard, even from the IMF and the World Bank. What I also think is very important to say when we talk about the National Strategy, I say, regardless of which it is not an integral part of the law, it is actually a roof document, what's important to say about it is that it is entirely on the line with so-called. The EU's fourth directive, which has not yet been adopted yet, but which is very important for us to practically move forward with our solutions, or of course we are in line with the Third Directive, but we are applying solutions that are yet to be made, that is, when it comes to the Fourth Directive of the EU. The focus in the National Strategy is placed on the implementation, i.e. the effectiveness of its implementation, but also on the coordination of all competent authorities in charge of its application through a single body called the Permanent Coordination Group. Also, I think it is an important component of the National Strategy and monitoring its implementation, i.e. monitoring the results it will achieve, but also its consistency with the latest international solutions that bring all the relevant institutions that we have talked about so far. The adoption of this law is of course the first priority, in terms of the protection of the state and constitutional order, as well as the protection of property and persons, but it is also our international obligation. The minister mentioned that in the past 15 years, the UN Security Council has brought a large number of resolutions regarding preventing money laundering and preventing terrorist financing. I would like to point out firstly that Resolutions 1247 and 1373, which are currently related to the prevention of terrorist financing. These adopted resolutions represent a kind of, let's say, implicit, and perhaps even explicit obligations for the UN Member States to apply them, i.e. through appropriate rules of application in practice. It is also important to say that the Republic of Serbia has an obligation, given its membership in the Council of Europe, to adapt its legislation to those measures that are prescribed through certain regulations that the Council of Europe makes. In this sense, it should be said that since 2003 the Republic of Serbia has been a member of a single body of the Council of Europe, so-called "the Republic of Europe". Manival, while at the same time our Anti-money Laundering Authority is members of the so-called Eggmont Group. So, we also have, in addition to the obligations related to the resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council, obligations arising from membership in the Council of Europe, but we also have obligations to bring our legislation in line with the EU's legal assets. Manival, this body of the Council of Europe, periodically delivers reports assessing the progress of member states. I must say, unfortunately, that the latest report by Manival in December 2012 showed that Serbia has made little progress when it comes to preventing terrorist financing, i.e. we have received a negative assessment, and this is a clear indicator that we had to adopt the appropriate legislation, i.e. a roof document as represented by a national strategy, and then this law that will enable it to be applied in practice, in order to improve our position internationally and to be much better evaluated in some perspective. As I said, this law is the cornerstone, practically, of the National Anti-money Laundering Strategy and the financing of terrorism, and it actually needs to bring certain benefits. The first is certainly to create assumptions for the fight against terrorism and the fight against terrorist financing. It should then bring about an increase in legal certainty for natural and legal persons through certain instruments prescribed by the law, thus improving the business environment, i.e. creating greater security in the business environment. Finally, I would say perhaps even most importantly, it should contribute to improving the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the context of these poor results that we have had in the past, which we can dramatically increase in the future. We should not forget how current the topic of terrorism and terrorist financing is today in the world and the last 15 years, but certainly the previous year. I believe that many colleagues and ministers know in particular how much in our contacts with relevant international institutions and with representatives and Brussels and US administrations they insist that our country be on the line with what some international standards are, when it comes to fighting terrorism and against terrorist financing, and how much when you're on that line you actually contribute to your international reputation. This international reputation is subsequently reflected in a much simpler solution to a number of open issues, so to speak, from those relating to the acceleration of the Eurointegration process to those concerning open issues that we have with representatives of Pristina. What the law prescribes is that within 30 days, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to come up with a list of terrorists and all persons associated with them, or so on. with a list of marked persons and then every year thereafter, that list shall be updated. Also, the law clearly prescribes procedures for achieving the desired effects, these are the three things I talked about a few minutes ago, so, first of all, assumptions based on which faces can be placed on that so-called. A list of marked persons, the minister said in which way someone could come on that list, then to control the business of particularly marked persons or all those who could be suspected of doing business with them in any way. Then, we move to restrictive measures, or measures to limit the availability of that property, and then control, or control of that property over which there is a limit on the availability. After all, of course, the supervision of the application of the law is the responsibility of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. When it comes to amendments and amendments to the Customs Code, it has, of course, arisen as a consequence of the need to bring our legislation into line with EU Customs Law in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. What's the second reason, but I'd say no less important, is a wish, and if you want a need, and I'd say, first of all, an imperative to approach the so-called "emergency." The European Convention on Common Transit, i.e. starting to apply so-called new computer, i.e. a newly copied NCTS transit system. Otherwise, I'm afraid Serbia would be in danger of becoming one, so to speak, an uncompetitive transit route, not to say it could become a black hole on Europe's traffic map. The application of this new computerised transit system, i.e. NCTS, practically reduces customs procedures and thus speeds up the demarcation procedure at the border and increases the efficiency of transport, as well as, of course, speeds up the flow of goods and services and reduces what is very important the costs of international transport and international trade. In addition to this, my colleague was talking about what are still new solutions that this law makes, so I won't look back at everything he said, but I'd say it's very important that what's mentioned, and that's to abolish the obligation to obtain a bank guarantee for the security of a customs friend, that's one of the things that's very important that affects the cost reduction. The second thing that is very important is the introduction of this infringement order for minor customs offences and these two measures are practically aimed at reducing costs for both economic operators and customs authorities. This new computerized transit system, again as I was saying, while I was discussing the previous law is not an integral part of this law, and I may not know I am mistaken, but it seems to me that it is essentially the most important consequence of the adoption of this law, so I would like to look back on it with a few words, because I think it is very important and that accession to these transit procedures, i.e. in a transit procedure, is something very important for Serbia. Therefore, this newly computerised transit procedure has been adopted by all 28 EU member states, plus four member states so-called. The EFTA agreement, plus Turkey, and from that we see that it is practically a system that surrounds the entire direction from northern, western Europe through Central and South Europe to Asia Minor, and then runs to Asia and Africa. So, who's not in that direction I think might be in serious trouble when we're talking about transiting goods and services. It was brought in as something that was supposed to speed up drastic customs procedures, and this is done by making complete documentation practically electronic and thus spending time at the border significantly reduced and increasing the efficiency of transport. When we consider the geostrategic position of the Republic of Serbia, which we often talk about very often and when we consider the fact that the Republic of Serbia is not the only member of the EU, it is practically the only country on this path that is not an EU member, then I think it is completely unclear that the introduction of the NKTS system is something that is for the Republic of Serbia, I would say, inevitability. Among other things, the introduction of this system, of course, is not something we must do overnight, is our obligation in the EU accession process, given that all EU member states have put this system into use. Since I was talking about the importance and urgency of introducing this NCTS system, someone might ask a question -- well, then why is this law for nearly six months in our procedure in the Assembly, why didn't we bring it in earlier, maybe we lost those six months. The answer is that we haven't lost time, that is, to work on this project for a long time, and that practically this law that we're making today is the end of an eight-year period. Since 2007, we have been involved in the implementation of this project through IPA 2007, IPA 2011 projects, i.e. the Pre-Accession Assistance Fund, through which we have implemented the first and second phases of this project. We, from September 2014, seem to be already testing this system at the customs office in Subotica, so we have practically come all the way across and it is still to pass the laws and thus create a legal framework and hopefully we start to fully apply the newly credited transit system as soon as possible and thus become another country that will apply it, i.e. practically the only country that is located on Corridor 10, which does not apply it to us at the moment. We must bear in mind that there is a competitive corridor called Corridor 4 on which all EU member states are on board. So there is no end to the way in which a single transit system is applied. That's why I think it's very important that we pass this law. Of course, I believe that's what's going to happen and that in the most recent time, of course we're starting to apply a new computerized transit system. I will repeat once again that the SDPS will support all four proposed legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23957	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23958	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, so in six minutes as the minister explained these proposals, I couldn't find a link between the laws he proposed today, nor how they were conditioned, and how solutions are linked from these laws that we are discussing today. The fact is, we have them in a united debate. The fact of the matter is that the minister has devoted a few minutes to each of these laws. And the fact is that these laws are put on the agenda to go practically and without debate, because we need to talk today about the Belgrade water project, but it will wait a few days and then they find themselves on the agenda these laws that are generally good. We will support the adoption of these laws. We believe that they are improving Serbia's legal system, but we believe that there are better solutions in each of them, and we have given several amendments to each of these, or to these two laws that we are discussing today. I believe that the government will accept our amendments, because they solve in a quality way, better quality issues in our opinion, and we think that they generally improve laws, and now I would say what these things are. First, the fact that we have had a negative assessment of the Council of Europe's Manivals and that by adopting this law, this assessment will likely be changed and the fact that it has long been pending with the adoption of this law. I don't want to accuse anyone of why it wasn't before, but it's good that now it's been passed, that this law is before us today and will be adopted in the next days. What we've already heard in the debate from certain colleagues, and we also believe that in Article 6 it seems to me that there's an imagination in determining the concept of terrorists is too high, because terrorism can hardly be done out of the way, so the terrorist act itself is done with imagination, so this word is too high and we think it needs to be deleted from the law. What is our key objection to this law is that this law does not impose the obligation of the insurance company banks and other financial institutions to act under this law. It means that they have an insight into the records of the persons on the list and that they inform in accordance with the law on how the court, notary and APR have the obligation. We believe that such a commitment should have financial institutions as well. Because it's just funding terrorism on the subject of this law and financial institutions deal with various financial transactions and then it's perfectly logical that they are included in this law. I hope the government accepts this suggestion. We also think that a better solution is that these lists, which are foreseen by the bill, are to be published only in "The Official Messenger", to be on a website, so that all these institutions have easier insights to obtain. Because finding the exact “officer ” in which these faces are located and then checking it out is a little awkward. Here, I see the minister's approval and I'm glad if these amendments are adopted. We feel that here at the end of the law some deadlines are not in line. The government should establish this list within 30 days, leaving a six-month deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. We believe that these deadlines should be harmonised, related to these sublaws and the adoption of this list. These are essentially our amendments. All in all, it's good that this law is on the agenda today and we'll accept it. Amendments and additions to the Customs Code are something that's good. It's a bit of an unusual fact that this law has been in the process for almost eight months, and today it's on the agenda. Usually, the laws stand only for a few days in the procedure, and then they are carried out by emergency procedure. This law has been waiting eight months and I don't want to listen to the guy's criticism now – well, well, what bothers you now that it's been standing for eight months? It doesn't bother us that it's been standing for eight months, but we're in the way of one other thing. On 25 December 2014, the Government adopted the Regulation on customs trade in goods, and that regulation contains those terms which are contained in the amendment and supplementation of the Law that we have yet to adopt. So, there are no terms that exist currently in the current law, and these are terms – instead of import licences – entry, instead – export – output, meaning, these terms that are just now to be introduced into the law, they stand neat. We think it's very bad, because the question is, is the regulation legal and is the application of that regulation by the customs authorities in the first three months of this year in accordance with the law or not? We think that this is bad, that this practice that the Government has is an obvious discrepancies with regard to the work of the authorities. Because now someone can question the legality of this regulation and the conduct of the state authorities in the previous three months and then have some problems. I hope this doesn't happen again. Probably someone thought, or didn't pay attention, they said they sent the law in August to the Assembly, there everything is adopted in a day or two, it's got to be adopted, now in December we're going to pass the regulation, and the law, by some chance, isn't adopted, I don't know why? Maybe when the law came to the Assembly, we didn't have a finance minister, he was elected only a few days after this law was passed to the Assembly and perhaps that's why he was lost somewhere in the drawer of the former minister and the new minister. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the agreement with KfW Bank from Frankfurt in Main and about this project to introduce energy efficiency in public facilities. I agree that this is a good project, where if these 15m euros are spent in a high-quality and fast manner, significant savings in energy consumption in public buildings will be achieved. It's a good thing that law is in some kind of emergency procedure. So, the government delivered it on March 6th and today we're discussing it, March 18th, and we're adopting it there until March 20th and March. This is some rhythm that this Assembly is working on, and it is good that those funds are withdrawn and realised in a quick way, but the issue of public debt is raised when we pass any law that Serbia is additionally in debt. I'm interested in what public debt today is, on this day, because we've introduced daily monitoring and budgets and surpluses and excise charges, taxes, customs, everything? Has he already exceeded 75% and higher, given the decline in the euro's value relative to the dollar and you know that we have one piece of credit and the government's debt is in dollars and can we then get from the minister and the answer to what is the state of the budget? Are we in a surplus today, because it seems to me that the surplus is now measured by the clock, so can we say that we're 12 in the surplus today? But then the question arises, Minister, why is it due to farmers to pay off subsidies, if the budget is in surplus? Why do you owe it to the foster parents? A few months, their fees aren't paid in time from the budget? These are questions that citizens want to hear. When they hear from the ministry or the prime minister that the budget is in surplus, then they ask – well, and what about the obligations that the state does not meet us? Will this government, and as long as it lasts with the surplus, will we have it as a permanent state? Then, Minister, we need a rebalancing. If we planned a 6.5% deficit this year, and here, you claim we're almost three months in surplus, then we'll probably have to do rebalancing. And then there's the question of whether our criticism when we were talking about the adoption of the budget that you were unreally planning budget revenues, and that you did it to explain why you're cutting pensions and salaries? It will now prove that these revenues can be greater, more efficient work of the tax administration, which we were then saying is necessary, more efficient work of inspection services, etc. So it could have been charged more, that there was a bigger charge planned, which obviously now looks and happens, but then they didn't have to cut pensions and pay. Either way, we'll back these laws. We have these few amendments and the essential regrets I've made. I hope that the fact that the amendments come from the opposition will not be decisive that they are accepted or not and that we will adopt these laws, improved by those solutions that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23959	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23960	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You were not part of the session, at one part of Mr. Djurisic's presentation here, but from the 10 minutes I followed very closely, almost half the time Mr. Djurisic spent in a speech on topics that are not on the agenda today. Among other things, he spent two minutes on points that are on the agenda today, that is, why these four points of the agenda come together. Therefore, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, why did Mr. Djurisic, for example, not mind when he joined 22 points on 18 March 2009? (National MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: Which member? ( ) Why did he not mind 50 points on May 13, 2009? Why didn't he have a problem with 64 points on May 29, 2009? On 11 December 2009, Mr Djurisic brought together 57 points, and on 5 May 2010, he merged 94 agenda points. He now has a problem with four points of the agenda that are connected! On the other hand, I'd like you to explain to me, or Mr. Djurisic, what does it have to do to explain to me, when he brought the agenda points together, at the session of 11 December 2009, the Law on the Securitisation of Information and the Law on Topography of Integrated Cars, and all that with the Law on the Judicial Academy, all that with the Law on Banks, all that with the Law on Official Statistics, all that with the Marks Act. What was it that bothered Mr. Giurisic at the time to bring together such incompatible points of the agenda, and now he has a problem with the agenda points, or the four that are in the common debate? I see he also spoke of "Belgrade on Water". We will be very happy to talk about the "Belgrade on Water", but I do not understand that when the law comes by emergency procedure and emergency procedure in the National Assembly, the same Mr. Gjurisic is bothered by why it is an emergency procedure? Now that we've taken off the urgency of the procedure, when it goes in the regular procedure, he now has a problem with why it's in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23961	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23962	You know, in our country, in our society, there are people in our National Assembly who, whatever this ruling majority does, whatever Alexander Vukic does, it won't be good, but these are people who don't have a critical relationship, they're people who don't have a vision and they don't have politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23963	Thank you, Mr. Granny. At this point, I can only say that I couldn't and can't judge what they were doing when they combined those points Mr. Djurisic and the ruling majority at the time, but I will gladly ask in the break and when I get the answer, I will give it to you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23964	Dear Chairman, I believe you've injured Article 103. Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which states - the MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement consists of, so that he can speak for up to two minutes. So let's start with these two minutes, two minutes is two minutes, not two minutes and twenty seconds. So, at no time have we heard what kind of a member of the Rules of Procedure you've hurt because I've been saying what I've been saying? I don't understand. How can you hurt any member of the Rules of Procedure? That's the only thing that's right with the previous speaker, because he couldn't say which member you hurt because I was saying something. I suppose I have the right to speak here, the previous speaker has practically replicated and you have not warned him at any time, at any point he has not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure. Please follow the Rules of Procedure, treat this previous address as an abuse of Rules of Procedure, explain to Mr Babic why and how the points of the agenda he spoke of, although he thinks it was bad, then it is bad today, and only bad students repeat mistakes. So, the good students will learn something from the mistakes of the previous ones, even though it was wrong, Mr. Babic, then this is also wrong, but it's much worse because you have an example of mistreatment that you haven't learned anything about, and now you're repeating mistakes. I didn't say anything about "Belgrade on Water", I'll talk about it when it's a topic of the agenda. I don't know if Mr. Babic can read and think from this rejuvenation, so he knows that I had something against the emergency procedure when I proposed the "Belgrade on Water" law because that's the only way he could know my opinion, because I didn't show it anywhere at any time, and I didn't have a chance to express it, so I'm asking you to allow me not to read my thoughts in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23965	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. If you had listened carefully, Mr. Babic called on Article 106, spoke about it... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No. ) I know the Rules of Procedure well, and by Mr Babic's speech, I know that he called on Article 106 because I didn't even ask because he was talking about Article 106. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Perhaps you read his thoughts.) Mr. Djurishic, as I understand now, it's not like you're throwing it to me in the Rules of Procedure. Also, Mr. Djurisic, in your explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you pointed out that someone had abused the Rules of Procedure and spoken in the replica, and you did the same thing to Mr. Djurisic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You understood or read the thoughts. ) You have asked for the punishment for Mr Babic, but you are therefore looking for punishment for yourself because you have done the same thing as you claim Mr Babic has done, you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure to speak in the replica and you have replicated Mr Babic. Isn't that right, Mr. Djurishich? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I called on a member of the Rules of Procedure and spoke... And replicated Mr. Babic. Is that according to the Rules of Procedure? It's not Mr. Djurisic, but I thank you for asking that the Rules of Procedure be strictly respected for others, not for themselves. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, you... ) That is how the citizens of Serbia and I, as chairman, understood. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: If you will... Sir, do you want to make a statement to the Assembly? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I want to. I want you to follow the Rules of Procedure, punish Babac and me. Here, in this day I don't want to do it, Mr. Djurishic, although you've earned this benching of yours to punish you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23966	Article 32, as they had just not heard or wanted to hear from those who did not want to hear that I had called on Rules of Procedure and Article 106... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: You did not call. ) (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You are not. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23967	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away, Mr Markovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23968	Mr. Chairman, I'm used to it, so don't worry, please, there's nothing left but hate and pitching, so I have no problem with it. The better the four points for joining the agenda than 94, the better Mr. Djurisic has combined, the better we are than them. Is that ideal? No, and the less than 94, the better we are. On the other hand, whether someone is rejuvenating or not is rejuvenating is a private matter to be respected, but that someone has failed, and that is where I mean, of course, politically, Mr. Djurisic, to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23969	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I, unlike some, can't read my mind, so I can't know what they're handling by joining up to 94 points of the agenda. If I find out, I'd be happy to forward that information to you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23970	Thank you. The four draft laws that are before us in this joint principle debate should be a fairly simple job for all because they have the foothold of each of the proposals and for two out of four, the first draft laws on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act and the second agreement, the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the prevention, investigation and repression of customs offences really does not require multiple reading or particularly additional questions to be supported by voting for these two laws. What remains as a question even for these two is the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act with full awareness of the fact that it is adopted because of our desire to join the World Trade Organisation and to bring business, standards and protocols in the framework of customs duties with other EU Member States or accession countries. So the job of our MPs is to ask the minister what is ready for the law to really be applied. The same goes for the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania to be co-operation, just to see how this application will go, how customs violations will be combated, at which border crossings, traffic by land, air, water, what is prepared, that would be nice if we heard from the minister, but did not do much damage even though we did not. The other two laws, i.e. the law and agreement, represent a subject that needs to be discussed much more in detail. The law on restricting the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism and the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between KfW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia of 15m euros, and for the "Energy Efficiency in Public Objects" project. A sentence about the latter first. The text in front of us simply raises the question why did we, as a borrower, ask KfW to single out a million and three hundred thousand euros for consulting on this job? In what way will this money be available, and is this the usual way of contracting between KfW and some other banks less good than KfW or really borrower, or do we think we need a consultant in that amount? So just to explain, explain, give a detailed answer. Energy efficiency, a topic which is relatively little known in Serbia, and a big topic that awaits us because we have taken over the deadlines for how "Energy Efficiency" in public buildings and in private and in all our houses with deadlines 2023, 2025 and 2020, depending on what we will and how we can apply it. Therefore, this agreement is important for answering the question about the nature of the loan, about which public facilities, whether it is spoken in schools, whether it is about 30 schools or whether it is about other public facilities and public institutions in which to invest in window isolation, doors on facades to keep heated buildings and even lighting without any loss that is now measurable in almost all buildings and houses in Serbia. How will objects be selected? Who's gonna be in charge of that? This is important to say because the public has the right to know, because when it comes to schools, we have a bigger problem with more schools than energy efficiency, unfortunately, and these are sanitary functions that schools should have, and they do not have in too many primary and secondary schools throughout Serbia. So these two details are the reason for paying the consultant and the way it will be and within what time, so that there will be no payment of the penalty, realised this project on our part. The law that just looks like it's easy for him to vote for is the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism and if we look at Serbia's general path and a very clearly defined provision that we will join the EU, that we will also agree our foreign policy on the basis of the chapters in negotiations with the EU completely, if we are already fully clear, which is good, we have also given the United States a message that our coalition friends and allies are in the fight against the Islamic state, if we are in partnership for peace, if we know that the 21st century is the kind of security risk in which we know the 20th century, in which the main security risks are completely new from the 20th century point of view, these are Non-state actors and that is energy, food, probably water and what we have as a description of terrorism. So if we know all that, then we just don't have to say, so to say, we vote for this law. However, this law concerns a serious area which is also little to talk about, as well as energy efficiency in Serbia, which is an area of human rights. The provisions of an individual law should be heard by the proposings so formalised that they fully convince us that after 2011 and 2012, when the working group worked through a draft consultation with both the Council of Europe and the OSCE, they were removed from any doubt that human rights violations could occur in any segment. The explanation that we have written that the person under whom the violation of his human rights has been treated against the law under this law may be triggered by an administrative dispute is not good enough and therefore I will seek answers from the minister about at least three details of this Law. The first concerns Article 2 where the meaning of concepts is spoken, and I agree with colleagues who spoke, but in the definition of terrorists is a person who is only or with other persons with imagination, and then, does different actions than trying or doing a terrorist act, through encouraging in the execution or possession of the knowledge of a group of terrorists, and that is just as illustrating to my thesis that it is easy to vote for this law, because all this is in accordance with the way that Serbia is changing, it is just as easy not to read the provisions in detail and it would be good to look at the amendments that have been submitted to my colleagues and to understand that the terrorist is difficult to be out of trouble, which is an alternative to the work of imagination. Why do these problems arise? Because of the genealogy of individual national regulations on terrorism, because of the lack of internationally recognised and accepted definition of terrorism, we can agree, and because you have certain organisations that say this is terrorism. We've just begun, as a civilization, to have a problem with those three things. Serbia's position in the future must be the best possible protection and legislative form, but also through our discussion of what our participation in the fight against terrorism means, because as the problem is that you do not have a completely clear, unequivocal and international court cases recognised a definition of terrorism, so you also have terrorists who are for one terrorist, and others are fighters for freedom. As you have conventions and UN resolutions on the obligation to develop general rules on the fight against terrorism as well as countries, UN member states which other UN member states accuse of funding terrorism as countries. It is not a simple and easy vote for this task, based on a brief introduction given by the minister and based on our common awareness that we have no misunderstanding that Serbia is under a coalition to fight terrorism and is anti-terrorist. The last item in this Article 2 is a special set of sentences showing a genealogy of such acts in national legislation, from the Patriot Act in the United States to various acts in the UK. We probably can't avoid it, but it would still be good to consider reshaping this point 8 that says what justifiable belief is that someone is a terrorist. "A justifiable belief that the face of terrorists is to fund terrorism, to be involved in terrorist group activities or to carry out a terrorist act is that degree of conviction that a reasonable man of average intellectual ability can acquire on the basis of evidence, facts that are generally known or evidence and credible information that are available to the competent state authorities." Why do credible information differ from the facts that are common knowledge and are they different? What does that mean – a reasonable man of average intellectual ability? Is there a person who will say for himself - I'm not a reasonable man of average intellectual ability, so I can't get confidence that he's a terrorist? No matter how many remarks we can have about the reasons why this formulation was put in, it's not good. I know from which part of the legislation is the root of this formulation. I know there have been other objections and suggestions during law-making. I know that this has been talked about within the OSCE, but it remains so in the law, and it should, whether by adopting the amendments that we have tabled from the DS parliamentary group or colleagues from any other party or committee, but it really should be taken into account, because it is a question of human rights. As much as I am against the idea of terrorism, the essential idea of terrorism is to intimidate these people by killing completely innocent people who have nothing to do with anything, to spread fear, to sow terror without borders and without an official source of funding, a terror that implies then reactions from national states. Terrorism has emerged as a sort of a wasteland of globalisation, and we're going to have a lot of problems with that in the future. That is why it is important to talk about this subject, so that even such a law, because it is understood, is not released through a congregation debate without sufficient clarification. What does this law say in what's called convincing the bill? By this law, our country says -- we're going to co-operate with international organisations, we're going to co-operate with other countries, and we're going to make a list of people that, as I just read before, every reasonable man of average intellectual ability thinks, based on the generally known facts, is a terrorist. Then we'll deny them financials, movable and immovable property. Basically, it's a subject of law, with conduct, of course, different bodies and organizations. If we're not going to establish the general belief that some terrorist is based on the general facts, then it shouldn't be written in the law, and if we're going to, then it's going to say and then I'm asking to be explained who's going to do it. Who is the person to whom this law will apply, if it lives in Serbia, if it is a Serbian citizen? If he has assets, if he has financial assets that he has obtained legally, on which he pays taxes, and there is knowledge that he is funding terrorism, that he participates in the organisation of terrorist acts, or that he has knowledge, then that person is because everyone else falls under another law. Serbia is one of the few countries that, based on the experiences of Sicily, has a Law on temporary confiscation of property, if the person cannot prove the origin of the property based on tax revenues. It's a method of fighting organized crime. So, if someone is suspected of organised crime, his property is not taken away temporarily because he's a participant in organized crime, but because he can't prove where he got the money from. Because organized crime has this unfortunate trait of making a lot of money on a bunch they don't know what to do. Such people can finance, of course, terrorist actions. Such people can also have knowledge of terrorists. Then why didn't we apply to the law that exists? This means that a person who is a Serbian citizen, if found to have no tax base, has no reason to have such property, that this person is not the subject of an organised crime investigation, but has become a designated person on the list. Therefore, the procedure for temporary confiscation, availability of financial movable and immovable property is in progress. What's the problem? In the application for a list of designated persons and the restriction on the availability of assets or funds made by other countries, it shall be supplied by diplomatic means. I understand the idea of the law, and I know similar laws based on which it was written. In all the law, you have not the cooperation of different bodies and organizations, but the intertwination. You have started as in Article 6 that we put a person on the list because we got a diplomatic request from some state to keep it on the list. You don't have what happens to that face. You don't have procedures and protocols for different bodies and organizations that participate in preventing anyone who wants to finance terrorism, who has knowledge of terrorist acts, to really effectively prevent it. For the management proceedings, that's the last remark I want to make, so on the record. 8 and 9, which obliges the finance minister to regulate, on a proposal from the Management, the way in which the notice and information on the designated person and his property is delivered. In Article 8 and Article 9 to regulate the way in which the data is supplied to the designated person of his property by the national authorities, organisations and persons entrusted to him by public authorities. That in those two attitudes might be a repeated response by the minister, so I'm going to ask him to spare me, because I know the difference between what I'm asking and what this says here, especially for the real reason why I'm mentioning it as a third comment. Article 22 says the government sets out a list of designated persons within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Two recently read last positions give the Minister six months to determine how to deliver information and information, etc., to inform all state authorities and organisations. How will the government, based on this law, which states that it determines the list of marked persons within 30 days, do so without these acts? If these acts will be arranged and done within 30 days, what does it say for six months? For anyone who can ask if anyone can support terrorists, they'd be amazed how many people on this planet support those we call terrorists, rightly calling them terrorists, because they meet fear, spread terror, kill innocents. I'm not talking about ideologies at all, differences between groups. Terrorism has one goal and you can't choose, like it's on a Swedish table, if these are terrorists, these aren't, these are the ones I like. That's why it's so important to specify the things that I'm sharing with you. I repeat, with full awareness, that such bill proposals, and there will be more of them, as regards respect for similar regulations, not in all EU countries, in some EU countries, heavy battles are being fought, right among human rights activists. Why? When you say someone can get on the list or diplomatically, or on the basis of free conviction, because it's obvious and generally known, then it's determined...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23971	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23972	... If he wasn't on the list, then the problem is that the administrative dispute is too mild to protect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23973	The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23974	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues, at the very beginning, the SPS parliamentary group, through me, as an authorised representative, points out that in the voting day, our MPs will unreservedly support a set of laws that we are holding today's debate. What I want to point out at the very beginning and focus my discussion solely on one of the proposed laws, which is the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, given that my esteemed colleagues from the SPS Group will speak a little more about other laws, of course, as well as this, in order to combine a complete analysis and everything the SPS parliamentary group wants to point out in relation to the proposed legislative acts. When we talk about the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, we must first of all come from the objective, and the aim of this law, dear colleagues and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is to improve the fight against terrorism, and that is precisely by systematicising preventive and repressive measures against terrorist financing, and thus preventing acts of terrorism. This is a fundamental objective, but it also implies the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to pass legislation that will bring its legislation into line with international conventions, including ratified UN conventions, Security Council resolutions and international standards, which are accompanied by the bodies of the Council of Europe, which deal with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular, this body is called Manival. The need to pass this law stems from the fact that today more than ever, it is necessary to mobilise literally all institutional and legislative resources in the fight against the greatest social monsters, which is terrorism. The etymological word “terrorism” comes from the word “terror, ” which in translation means“ horror or fear, ” which is nothing but a rule of intimidation, or violence. Only the meaning of the word "terrorism" from the etemological aspect is sufficient evidence and speaks enough about what kind of social monster it is and what we are even discussing today. Today we live under the ballast of global terrorism and no one has ever touched this very term, term – global terrorism or super terrorism. What does that mean? This means that no part of the planet's territory is isolated from a potential threat called terrorism. Global terrorism has started with an expansion since 11 September 2001 when terrorist acts seriously rocked US social foundations, and in the same way attacks on public traffic funds in London, Madrid, Moscow have been made an attempt to destabilise social arrangements and legal order of the countries of the European continent. Motivation of global terrorism and ethnicist, on the one hand, religious, on the other. Why? Because global terrorism differs according to these motives from the forms of terrorism and receives the physionomics of a very perfiduous terrorist activity or a perfided way of carrying out terrorist activities. For what? Well, simply because all terrorist activities today are justified by the alleged struggle for the protection of national interests, for the protection of religious interests, allegedly for a fight involving the protection of national rights, and even political beliefs or beliefs. It's a kind of manners or patterns of behavior, whether it's a terrorist act that takes a terrorist as an individual or it's a terrorist group. But we must bear in mind that today's terrorist groups are made in a very massive form, such as the situation in Nigeria where the Boko Haram terrorist group literally acts in this way. This is a situation where numerous terrorist activities are being developed that are being taken by the Islamic State and various Islamic movements, and that is again under the form of a struggle or a battle mask, reportedly again because of oppression, the threat of the protection of rights, etc. As far as the elements of terrorist activity itself are concerned, a few should be pointed out. First of all, that the objective of terrorist activity is mostly political, regardless of whether this ultimate goal is to shift the regime, shift the person in power, secession of a particular territory or parts of the territory, and we are also witnesses in the history of such attempts. Second, the use of violence or threats to the use of violence. The third thing that's the worst and most ferocious thing about it is that victims are normally innocent citizens and the fourth that there is no direct link between terrorists and victims. Why? Because the attack is not directed at victims or victims individually, it wants to use a terrorist act to send a message to the wider community, the state, society and so forth. Global terrorism through the most brutal and monstrous forms of terrorist acts, with a large number of victims, unfortunately innocent persons, develops their strength and power through terrorist propaganda or better to say publicly inciting terrorist acts. Gentlemen and dear Serbian citizens from here should start a clear political message, which is that terrorist propaganda is the most insidious form of terrorist preparation and recruitment to carry out terrorist acts. The funds and mechanisms through which terrorist propaganda is conducted are mostly sophisticated, but they have received a kind of universal mechanism. They can be daily newspapers, they can be social networks and they are, the web pages of terrorist organizations, they can be different kinds of electronic communications. Through these means are self-convinced, supposedly ideological, national, religious, or equally conveyed, or conveyed the beliefs of someone else. So, other people's beliefs to create awareness of the alleged need for public incentive to significantly expand the circle of the face into acts of terrorism under the form of positive action, i.e. fighting for some rights. Unfortunately, this is exactly how a large number of terrorists are recruited, unfortunately this is exactly the way terrorist groups are massaged, and unfortunately this is exactly how minority terrorist activity on the entire planet develops to the extent of expansion, and that is what our obligation is. That's why this anti-terrorist law is why we are entering a circle of countries that in an unequivocal way signal the fight against terrorism. I think it's very important to point out that these so-called brutal forms, the implementation of terrorist activities such as horrendous images of the decapitation of the heads of kidnapped and kidnapped persons, the killing of civilians in the subways and on the railway stations are all in front of cameras, cameras and mobile devices, and then by showing such scenes on social networks exactly how we rightly call it - a public incentive to carry out terrorist acts. Global terrorism is a global threat to security, and that is why we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that security, above all, is a right, not just a prerequisite for the enjoyment of other rights. We socialists respect it and seek its protection. One of the systemic types of protection is exactly this, by passing anti-terrorist law. We believe that security is the right of every individual, as part of his personal freedom, the personal freedom of all citizens of Serbia and all citizens on the planet. We think it is necessary to raise awareness among citizens to what extent terrorism logistics is today simple, and therefore, unfortunately, difficult to see. Today, the means of terrorist action are different and trivial. It can also be gasoline, chemical matter, it can be fertilizer, information technology. Today, it is an extremely broad leprosy that can in no way be seen how large it is when it comes to the means of terrorist activity. We have come to the point that what is good for the development of international trade and international communication is also good for terrorists. It is obvious that globalisation and the development of terrorism are interrelated. But today, as MPs, we should be honored to be confident alone, regardless of party membership, regardless of the ideological commitment to vote for this law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. In particular, the first serious step in the fight against terrorism occurred after the murder of Yugoslav King Alexander and French Minister Barto on 9 October 1934, when France officially proposed the establishment of the International Criminal Court. In response to the French proposal, the National League Council decided to set up a Committee of Experts tasked with making a proposal for the text of the Convention on the Prevention of Crimes of Terrorism, so the National League Convention for the Prevention of Terrorism was adopted. That is why we can be honored that today this Assembly, this Parliament, by joining international standards against terrorism, is making a step and a meaning of harmonising its legislation with EU and World Community legislation. Dear Ministers, I would like to ask you to hear from the SPS parliamentary group a certain, extremely well-intentioned suggestion regarding certain provisions, a certain standard of the bill that is before us today. What can be worth some attention in any case, and I think criticism is the norm of some qualifications that we in the SPS think can be otherwise formulated. In Article 2, in addition to being in agreement with all that are respected colleagues, the qualification of imagination is absolutely unnecessary in the text of this law, is also unnecessary or is at least far more necessary to reshape the qualification of knowledge of intent. The knowledge of the intention to execute a terrorist act must be proven. The question arises where, in law, anything that implies proof of the existence of a knowledge of intent has been procedurally implemented here. It's obviously not there. I'll remind you that from the point of view of criminal law, thinking about committing a crime is not a crime, but that's why the very act of committing a crime is illegal and punishable. So the question arises: can only knowledge of intent be a condition for the qualification of terrorists to be introduced into the text of the law as it has been introduced? I don't think anyone's pointed out that up until now, and I think it's necessary for all of us, for the practical application of the law, for those who will interpret this law. Furthermore, what has been noted here is about the degree of conviction as a reasonable belief that he is the face of a terrorist and immediately comes down to the parameter that this belief as a degree implies that he has a reasonable man of average intellectual ability. Here is the question – can this qualification serve as a means of abuse? Can it serve as a means of fighting political inexperience? Can it serve as a means of combating the person we think should, in some way, be covered, but not covered by this law? In order to avoid all these doubts about the possibility of such a qualification being misused, I think and agree with my colleagues that maybe reshaping this qualification would be a good solution. I also draw attention, when it comes to administrative proceedings, it is said in Article 7 that the administrative dispute can be initiated because of the misdetermined identity of the person and under two, founding and putting on the list of identified persons. Such a formulation implies that the Administrative Procedure Act here is not consistently implemented, because in the Administrative Procedure Act alongside these elements, which are required to apply the administrative procedure to launch, implement and so on. Infringement of the procedural rules of the administrative procedure, which means an absolute violation of the administrative procedure. As an absolute violation of the litigation procedure is the reason for the appeal or the application of the initial act, it should be stated here that, in addition to those elements that have been regulated by the administrative procedure, through the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, should be kept in mind and those which you have stated here. Furthermore, Article 8 states that the organisation responsible for the management of the register of business entities of the Association of Regiment, Foundations, and courts and public notebooks are obliged to review the list of designated persons prior to entry into the Register or to verify the contracts. Absolutely justified, absolutely for support and absolutely correct, but the question arises – where are these standards systematized in the provisions of the Law on Public Libraries? So if we have a lex specialis already here, then the question is, were we supposed to systemize one of those standards in the Public Notebooks Act? The question is more rhetorical, but it can cause certain controversy in the professional public. Finally, what would be good would be good to consider the possibilities for these qualifications formulations, which I have highlighted and which are already highlighted, to try to change in terms of their precision, in terms of their practical far more efficient application, and in this way we will undoubtedly come to a far, far more qualitative sense of words, a better text of the law that we will in any case support, because in this situation and a resolute ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have made a huge step in terms of what means more intensive involvement of the Republic of Serbia in solving those problems that pose an extremely great danger. An extremely great danger is terrorism. With this danger, we must face, not daily, but at all times think about how to eliminate it and how either one of the ways of removing that danger or at least the possibility of coming to danger is precisely this law for which we provide unreserved support together with coalition partners, and I am confident with all the other political parties represented in our Parliament. That is why I repeat and end my discussion in the end, the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of this law as well as the other parts, i.e. the legal acts set out in this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23975	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23976	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to this debate of my fellow Members, both from the ruling majority and from members of the former regime. I also listened to their remarks, and I can say that in one part of the remarks there is some basis, but I couldn't quite agree on why we have some problems in Serbia today and why we have to do things the way we do. One of the laws and a bill to confirm the agreement between the RS government and the Council of Ministers, between Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia of 15m euros for the energy efficiency project. So one colleague or colleague said here that we're going to run energy efficiency by schools, and in a very large number of schools we don't even have sanitary nodes. I totally agree, but we can't provide credit for something like this under these conditions. We have to finance this ourselves, and we cannot finance it because a billion euros has evaporated from Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. That's what you should have thought about back then. And I would very much like to send those who were in front of the Ministry of Education yesterday to repeat their demands to the prosecutors and to the judges, in front of the investigative prisons, why their salaries were reduced 10%. It's very easy to say and criticise when the government's register is empty and to pour ash, and knowing well that no one can change this condition that we have in that way and at that speed, as the representatives of the former regime now want, who have brought the country much more at a very difficult pace. Yeah, we need this deal, too. Energy efficiency is very important not only because it costs a lot and because energy has no limit, but also in order to protect the environment. We'll always stand behind projects like this. We have talked about this several times, and this is not the first credit raised by the RS government, or the Republic of Serbia with this bank, but rather one in a row. I'm sorry only until three years ago that many of these loans were taken over, but they weren't implemented in the field, so now we have the laws to be in charge, the laws in which we set deadlines, but because there were no sublaws for two or three years, I mean 2009. 2010. In 2011 and 2012, we are now paying for the penalty because those who were to enforce the law were not able because of the sloth of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. When it comes to the laws on amendments and additions to the Customs Act and the proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania in mutual assistance, our Customs Act, as it is, must be adapted and the environment in which Serbia is located and adapted to various technical opportunities, firstly to make the customs procedure quick, efficient and precise. There is another problem, and this is because of the lack of the customs procedure itself, i.e. those shortcomings were the source of gray economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and there was a certain goods entering Serbia, that it was stated that the goods should be exported through Serbia only as a transit point and went to a third country. Most often it happened to stay in Serbia, which was also a very serious generator of gray economy, which after corruption and crime destroyed Serbia the most, because many of the Governments of Mirko Cvetkovic and the previous governments were murmuring about it, so we had that famous patriotic robbery of the century down in the territory of our province of Kosovo and Metohija. And look, I'm pleased about that, we have an agreement with Albania as well. Why? Well, because Albania, that is, Serbia does not exercise power in its southern province's territory, most of the goods imported from Albania imported to Kosovo ended up in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the gray zone. And vice versa, part of the goods that went towards Kosovo and Metohija ended up in Albania as a generator of grey economy and grey zone. With one such agreement, we are taking one step to stop this evil, which in financial terms has happened to Serbia, slowly, with all the other state authorities. In the end, since I'm only going to talk for 10 minutes, I'd also like to discuss the proposal for a law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. First, I was surprised by some colleagues that they forgot that one law for one such problem does not exist. We already have a law on preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. The law regulated the position of financial institutions, the obligation to register such money. That linecoma should be found in the new law? I don't think you should. Because he forgot what law he voted for, and he forgot there was no definition of terrorism in that law, but he voted for it. The others voted right now, I don't know what group, and now they say these are the shortcomings they have made in the law, and the previous law that regulates this area, there was not a word about it. Press the button and you don't care. Why is a systematic fight against terrorism important? Terrorism is first funded in two ways. One is smuggling, most often drugs and weapons, and the other is fully legal activity, business, financial and any other and any resulting gain is financed by terrorism. With that law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, we ended up with that illegal piece, and this law with the legal part. Why does Serbia need this? Because terrorism is one such organization, there is no one terrorist, but it will always look for a country where there is fertile soil to ensure the financing of its activities, which after the Second World War crime are the worst and the hardest. Serbia is in Europe, on the globe, and it also has an obligation to emulate its legislation in the sense that it cannot be a country in which it is financed and generated such a monster that has hit us over the past decades. Any criticism that fellow MPs want to give instructions on the lack of law, please be constructive, in terms of improving the law itself. This is about a law that regulates what is considered a terrorist organisation, which persons or legal entities can be called certain related persons in terms of financing terrorism and administrative procedure to prevent terrorist financing if proven. I would ask them to return to those discussions and those discussions. Everything beyond that, in my opinion, is just one desire to gain some political point on a subject that is highly sensitive and that plagues the entire globe. For all things, we in the Serbian Progressive Party will not question whether a set of these laws should be passed or not. We will certainly give confidence to these laws, because they improve the financial system in the Republic of Serbia first, and secondly raise the reputation of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the fight against international terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23977	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. We now move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common principle and uniform search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23978	Citizens and citizens of Serbia must be informed that we have a bad start again, which is a joint investigation, a united debate on four laws that have virtually nothing to do with each other, nor is there any valid, meaningful or any other reason for this to happen. The only conclusion or comment is that it is one demonstration of the Serbian government's haughtiness, which wants to show in this way that it is not interested in any rules, any conditions for the serious work of the Serbian parliament. But it's been happening for a year and I don't feel like it's gonna change. We'll always point to that anomaly, but of course we'll be discussed in the context of the time that we have about the bill itself. We have four draft laws in a united debate: a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism; a draft law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act; a bill on the validation of the loan agreement between the KFW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15m euros, for the Energy Efficiency Project in Public Objects and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs offences. As much as it has to do with each other, I don't want to talk any further. I will talk about the first draft law, and that is the bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. Of course, this is an important topic, despite the fact that this law is due not to some deep thinking, but to our international obligations. That's how it's supposed to be accepted. There are some other laws already dealing with this area, primarily those that define organised crime in Serbia, because terrorism is part of that part of crime, but it is a good thing that in another way through this law we will show Serbia's concern, the state's concern against the 21st century monsters, which is terrorism. It seems to me that I was the first in the federal government to be president of some anti-terrorism committee, and Serbia is fortunate, and this is a good part and a consequence of the good work of the competent services in the area, that so far we have not been a victim of terrorism. I hope it will be so continued and that we will not be in a group of countries that have a daily problem with this phenomenon. Of course, work should be done to prevent, preventative work, in that work on co-operation with competent institutions in the region, throughout the international community. I'm sure that's where the good attention comes in, at least from a time I remember as someone who could control it. We gave five amendments to my colleague Pavicevic and I to this law. All these amendments, I'm not going to say they're well-intentioned, because, of course, they're meant to be, I think they're meaningful. They aim to increase the vigilance of the competent state authorities in implementing this law above all. One amendment proposes that the Government consider, twice a year, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs and after obtaining the opinion of the competent authorities, referred to in Article 5(1) of this Act, a legitimate list of designated persons. That's what my colleague Komic was talking about, and that's that protection of human rights. Of course, the fight against terrorism is very important, that there is no reason not to go into it with full force, but, of course, there is also a need to make an evaluation of the whole process and see if anyone is suspected or punished in this way, without grounds. Other amendments, on the other hand, give harsher penalties for all those situations where someone does something contrary to this Law. I think harsh punishments are not one but one important part of fighting all evils, including terrorism. So, if these amendments are adopted, we will certainly vote for this bill, and if they do not, then we will vote, with regrets that they are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23979	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The People's Messenger Ivan Karic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23980	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as said by an authorised representative of the SDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary group, we will support one part of the law. Here I'm just going to talk about the loan agreement of KfW and the ZS will surely support this proposal of yours, with which, as always, we have a few suggestions or a few things that we could discuss, so that we can save the money we save or the energy we save or all that we can save through rational use in fact use for future investments and even greater incomes and even greater savings. The loan agreement aims to improve the energy efficiency of public buildings and is based on an international agreement. This part of 15m euros is guaranteed and subsidized by the Republic of Germany and one part of the million- and 300,000-euro grants is coming from the Western Balkans Investment Framework programme, the EU technical assistance programme in preparing and designing loan projects. KfW will be the leading international organisation to implement and implement technical assistance with our ministries, and technological development and the Ministry of Finance and Energy. These funds, most importantly for Serbia, are part of these million-dollar funds and 300 are irrevocable. Following the signing of the agreement, what is very interesting for the U.S. is that after the signing of the agreement a new special agreement must be signed between KfW and the Ministry of Mining and Energy, if we understand correctly, which will determine the content of the projects and which goods and services will be obtained. The tenders are, of course, international, supervised by independent experts, and the overall implementation will be entrusted in a tender completely to one firm or consortium company. We here now have a few questions that may be interesting from the point of view of saving energy or rational use of energy in public facilities, especially some things that could be modernised. Maybe our knowledge isn't enough, I'm saying you're already working on it. But is the programme made up and are priorities set, are these public facilities just investment schools in energy facilities and what facilities are they designed to do? What technical solutions are foreseen? What is very important for us – do there are domestic technologies and techniques in these projects? The key question right now is school isolation. At this point, we can, but should we in the future use Styrofoams for isolation and is this a good solution in school facilities, given that in most or almost all EU countries there is no isolation from Styrofoams? Now I'm going a little wider with the idea that we can make extra savings out of these loans. Are heat pumps that can be home-made to heat and cool objects at the same time, and not to use inefficient energy heating in the summer and use electricity and cooling devices to create double damage to the environment? Can pellets be used? Is the use of mules and coal excluded? Do the advantages still have remote systems, even though heat pumps and pellets are cheaper? Whether new insulation materials should be used? Now we have insulating materials that, with one millimeter of layer thickness, replace five centimetres of Styrofoam? Will the windows be equipped with recuperators, devices that provide the exchange of clean and dirty air without losing energy because of the opening of the window, we are losing 30% of our energy? On the other hand, this is almost not the case in Serbia. Of course, everyone mentioned toilets in schools, but we have to keep thinking. It's a historical problem. It seems to me that no one is to blame individually because we don't have toilets, but we all don't have them together for 50 years. It's not just a problem for the last year. Since children in schools have to have the exact amount of oxygen prescribed to work in classrooms, do we, perhaps, now come out of the work of your operation, adopt a directive on quality of indoor air? We are still not thinking about it, and Serbia should be able to follow EU directives as soon as possible. What Green Serbia thinks is that the purest energy that we didn't have to produce is what we do in the infinite production of dirty energy, which adds to the health system, burden the social environment, burden the environment and create double damage by investing in fossil fuels and in systems that are inefficient and which, on the other hand, pollute the environment. Therefore, Green Serbia considers the purest energy to be the one we didn't have to produce. Serbia's palace is heating up on the mammut, and it's cooling up on the climate. It would be much better to warm up and cool down on heat pumps that would take water from the Danube and practically ten times cheaper during the year and cool and warm during the winter. The problem with one of KfW's loans is that it also financed large-scale heat from five megawatts per mule in areas where we have a lot of biomass and where the forest rots in southern Serbia. It's inadmissible in the 21st century. We must not be waste for over-exploited EU technologies and apply them in Serbia. If we want to join the EU, let us immediately apply what they are doing or train ourselves to apply as soon as possible what they are doing in the EU. Perhaps the Committee on Ecology and Energy could submit a proposal to discuss the proposal for a programme for the supply of goods and services prepared for the signing of a special agreement and to go into the loan agreement and see what technology is being introduced in the debate or perhaps to organise some public debate. I know that your ministry has heard of both renewable energy sources and alternative types of funding for large projects that could be "green" and it seems to us that at the time of returning this loan its effects and effects of this large project can be multiple, we agree. According to the Green Serbia budgets, triple or quadruple value will actually come through savings in these years, of course, if in the right way, to say use these savings and to invest in real technologies that lead to green savings and energy savings. Perhaps, distinguished ministers, we can invest these savings that we will achieve, and it seems to me that it will be three to four times greater, perhaps through energy, maybe we can put these savings into some revolving fund and extend the procedure of these public facilities and in this way make Serbia more efficient, safer, greener and healthier, more environmentally sound, because the production of electricity in Obrenovac, many Serbian citizens do not know or think about it when the switch is on in their home, makes the production of electricity in Obrenovac seem that many children are born with bronchitis, obstructive bronchitis, asthma and allergic manifestations. We need to think about those who suffer from bad technologies or suffer the consequences of inadequate economy in Serbia. The sooner we have to get to know each other, the sooner we have to explain to the citizens that some products have to have real prices, and then all these savings that I've been talking about make sense, and they're tenfold cheaper than the production of coal electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23981	Thank you, Mr. Karic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the First Economic School of Belgrade, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Mirjana Djokovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23982	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests, respected students, I would say four very important legislative proposals, without reducing the importance and importance of any of these four legislative proposals, but in the same time as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, I will first of all take a brief look at two legislative proposals. It is about the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Customs Code. First of all, I want to say that terrorism is certainly a great danger and a great challenge, one of the biggest problems for the modern world, and it is clear that for one successful fight against terrorism is the necessary unity of the whole and the entire international community. Serbia certainly supports fighting all forms of terrorism. Serbia wants to participate and contribute to this very important and significant fight. Serbia is unequivocal in condemning all forms of terrorism. Serbia wants to be a reliable partner to the international community in this important and significant struggle. The debate today on this legislative proposal speaks very clearly about Serbia's readiness to advance the anti-terrorism system by adopting a legislative proposal in the Republic of Parliament. Serbia today holds the presidency of the OSCE, in a very difficult and delicate, I would say, a moment and a time period, but it is very important and important for Serbia. Big challenge, big responsibility for Serbia. A chance Serbia will know how to use and improve its international position. This is an indication and confirmation that Serbia is seen as a normal and orderly state and as an equal political partner, which is very important in the view of the SPS parliamentary club. Why did I mention the OSCE presidency? For one simple reason, because Serbia made it very clear at the start of the OSCE presidency that precisely the biggest challenges during the presidency would be terrorism and, of course, the Ukrainian crisis. I think an expert conference on the fight against terrorism in the territory of OSCE member states will be held between June 30th and July 1st in Vienna. When it comes to a concrete legislative proposal that we are talking about today, of course, is not at all a question of support, of course we will support this legislative proposal and it is exactly what my colleagues before me and my colleagues were talking about before me. So, by adopting this legislative proposal on the one hand, is Serbia's international obligation, to bring our legal framework into line, to harmonise our legislation. On the other hand, what we think is far more important is the increase in the degree of security, the security of our citizens. This is a question that is important for our economy, but what is important and what I have already talked about and I will repeat it again in one sentence – Serbia will be recognised as a reliable partner of the international community in the fight against terrorism as a global phenomenon. In the previous period when it comes to the legal frameworks, Serbia, I would say, did not sit with its hands cut. I remind you, Serbia has adopted amendments to legislation that envision the punishment of Serbian citizens who participate or organise participation in armed conflicts in a foreign country. Serbia has also established a functional system to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. Serbia is consistently and responsibly fulfilling its obligations to implement the UN Security Council Resolution that imports the arms embargo. Then, I'll remind you, let's not just talk about a time period from the previous year and a half or two days, I'll remind you, say Serbia in 2002 ratified the international Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Financing, the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime with Supplemental Protocols, the UN Convention against Corruption, the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, the Search, the confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime, the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, the Search, the confiscation and confiscation of income obtained by crime and the financing of terrorism. So, I listed all of this for one simple reason to say that Serbia in the previous period when it comes to this issue has done a lot, but by adopting this legislative proposal we are actually rounding up one process and one whole and showing willingness to improve this system. The SPS Parliament Club believes and we are convinced that by adopting the legislative proposal that we are talking about today, we want to improve the anti-terrorism system through, above all, repressive and preventive measures against terrorist financing as a previous necessary phase in carrying out a terrorist act. So that's what we're talking about. A legal mechanism is being established to freeze property for persons on the list of terrorists, their helpers and the financiers. The UN Security Council Committee updates this list once a year, and I think this is a process that started about ten years ago. It is the government that determines the list of designated persons on the basis of a list of designated persons by the UN and, on the basis of a proposal from the competent national authorities and on the basis of a reasoned request from another country. Of course, what I also want to say is that in the fight against terrorism, a coordinated international action is needed, full co-operation of all competent institutions and competent authorities is needed, and should, in the opinion of the SPS Parliamentary Club, in the right sense, be cut off by what is root terrorism, and in our opinion, which lies in illegal arms trafficking, money laundering and drug trafficking. That's the logistics, the basis for a later terrorist act. Repeat once again, of course the SPS MPs' club in the voting day wants to support this legislative proposal. As for the amendments and additions to the Customs Code, and that was already the case, with only a few sentences. That is exactly what this is, in fact, about harmonising our legislation with EU legislation and the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and that is absolutely logical and completely normal, bearing in mind the strategic definition of Serbia to be a full member of the EU and the World Trade Organisation, but that is not the only reason why the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. In fact, we support this legislative proposal because we believe that its application wants to facilitate business in particular when it comes to international trade. So a new computerized transit system is being introduced that involves exchanging e-mails and thus saving money, and time will be saved. We are becoming part of a major European system, which we believe is very important, and we believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will reduce the space for abuse, that is, illegal trade. Also, that was said, therefore, this is about harmonising with the new Law on Infringements, i.e. the matter of Infringement in Customs Law, as the Minister said in the opening statement, the new Law on Infringements that simplifies the procedure for minor infringements with a significant cost reduction for the country itself, which is fully acceptable to us. And at the very end of the voting day, we will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23983	The word is by Master Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23984	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected students who, with your presence, contribute to the public's work of this high house. I want to say that today we're talking about a very important four bill proposals. The first law we are talking about today is the Law on Restriction, the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism that needs to be solved by many problems. By passing this law, we are promoting the fight against terrorism by establishing a system of preventive and repressive measures against terrorist financing. Since 1 January 2006, he has been on the mark of Criminal Law and the provision of a member of the 393rd financing of terrorism has been incriminating as a particularly criminal act. It is also prescribed to establish a legal framework to take preventive measures to prevent terrorist financing, as well as to ensure effective international co-operation with other Member States on this plan. It is important to point out that by retaining the current situation and not regulating this area by law, the state could not adequately respond to international obligations to membership in international organisations and ratification of relevant international legal acts. The law is adopted by an urgent procedure, as its adoption meets international obligations and complies with EU rules. We have a question – what effects this bill will have. Its adoption prescribes certain obligations, first of all on public authorities, and I mean the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Authority responsible for security and intelligence affairs, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Rights, the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, Courts and Public Notebooks. Then, this law also has certain obligations for natural persons who have jobs or other similar relationships with a designated person or with whom the property is located, and legal persons, banks, accounting agencies, insurance companies, brokerage and dealerships. Effective law enforcement will require further education and specialisation in this area of employees in public authorities who will participate in law enforcement. The application of this law will cost citizens and businesses, with the effect that the consequences cannot be avoided since the adoption of this law has stemmed from the state's membership of the UN-organised international obligation of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, costs will be justified, as the application of this law improves the fight against terrorism, establishing a system of preventive and repressive measures, against terrorist financing, as the previous necessary phases in carrying out terrorist acts. We thus increase general security in the country, and we contribute to the recognition of Serbia as one reliable partner to the International Community and to the fight against terrorism as a truly global problem that we must address. The preservation, integrity and stability of credit and financial institutions and trust in the financial system in general can be seriously threatened by individuals or groups to obtain legally or illegally acquired money for the purpose of taking acts of terrorism. This law certainly needs to prevent it from affecting marked persons and related persons by avoiding the establishment of business relations with persons from Serbia, as it will be aware of the risk of being reported to the competent state authorities and that the availability of their property will be limited. This will prevent possible abuse of the domestic financial market in order to finance terrorism, which will contribute to Serbia's better international assessment in terms of its business and investment rating. Preventing the abuse of domestic legal and natural persons to finance terrorism and preserve the integrity, reputation and stability of the financial system will contribute to the increase of a general legal certainty in the state of Serbia. Many relevant organisations have had the opportunity to give their own suggestions when this law was in the form of a draft, and even their suggestions have been given by experts of the Council of Europe, and mostly by technical issues, and even by language adjustment. The law stipulates that the finance minister, under the obligation to adopt appropriate sub-legislative acts within six months of the entry into force of this law, to regulate the ways in which legal and natural persons will comply with their reporting obligations and the manner in which the competent state authorities will act under the notices made. The second law we are talking about today is Customs Law and its modernity is reflected in the fact of the simplification of the customs procedure, its faster and more efficient implementation, which together contributes to the acceleration of the customs procedure and the reduction of costs in external trade. As for changes and additions to the part where the matter of customs offences is regulated, we would first point to the basic objective of customs laws, which is to protect the economic, fiscal and financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, then to protect the Republic of Serbia from illegal trafficking, security, protection of people and the environment, as well as facilitating international trade. Customs law regulates customs duties and procedures, as well as the rights and obligations of persons and customs authorities, which arise from such operations and proceedings. All participants in the customs procedure are obliged to behave in accordance with the regulations, because any disregard for the rules is certainly a matter of withdrawal of certain sanctions. I will comment on the draft law, Articles 14 and 15 which are amended. 229 and 231. Customs law. The changes concern security for the payment of customs debt. Instead of the bank guarantee so far, as a form of security, it is envisaged that any person with residence, or registered in the Republic of Serbia, can be guaranteed if the proposed guarantee is acceptable according to the customs authority's assessment. Article 22 The draft law is amended in Article 296. Customs law. This amendment provides for a minor fine for offenders, provided that the customs value of the goods subject to the offence does not exceed a thousand euros in dinar equivalent, calculated in accordance with Article 54 of this Law. Article 26. Proposal for a Law amending Article 302. Customs law, i.e. a different jurisdiction of the authority is prescribed. According to the new legal solution, the customs authority shall issue a criminal order for infringements for which a fine is prescribed in a fixed amount and for infringements for which no criminal order is issued, the customs authority shall apply for the initiation of the infringement procedure. I would also like to say a few words about the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KWF Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia on a project of energy efficiency in public facilities. The loan agreement envisions a planned 15m-euro debt, which makes Serbia borrower and withdraws funds in interest-rate tranches, which will be fixed for the entire loan period. The interest rate is 2.1% on an annual basis, and the duration of the loan is 12 years. The deadline for its withdrawal is 30 December 2017. The implementation of the energy efficiency project in public buildings, schools, was agreed at interstate consultations between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany, held in March 2011, under which the German side provided a development loan, first of all 10m euros, and then in 2012 negotiations was specified to allocate another fivem euros. The project aims to improve energy properties of buildings, schools and other educational institutions, with the aim of reducing energy consumption and improving conditions for learning and working. With this project, it will cover about 30 to 40 of our schools. The local contribution of municipalities whose territory includes schools and other educational institutions, included in the project for investment maintenance works, is projected at 1.5m euros. The measures envisaged would achieve significant savings in terms of energy consumption in schools and other educational institutions, which would have a positive impact on the budgets from which these facilities are financed. At the end of my discussion today, I want to say that we should focus only on, and when our government, which works well, provides these loans, that we from the level of local self-government, try to provide valid project documentation. Because nothing's worth this kind of favorable loan to us unless we're done with the projects. In Voting Day, with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23985	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. He's not here. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need to bring in the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23986	Madam Chairman, distinguished ministers, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nislija, since I have very little time from the parliamentary group, I will try to give some of my vision of today's agenda, with some suggestions to Mr. Minister, especially about point 3, credit with Frankfurt in Main. Dear citizens, point one of today's agendas is the proposal for a law to restrict the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism, and that is essentially the law arising from the obligations set out in relevant international documents, above all I mean the resolutions of the SB OUN. In the second Report of the Melville Committee, it is the Council of Europe's body on the progress that the Republic of Serbia has been assessed by a negative assessment in this area, I hope that by passing this law and all that will follow this law we will get a positive assessment at the next meeting of the Committee. I wouldn't talk about this law anymore, for a little while, but I'd turn to some other subjects. All of what we as a parliamentary group had as a grudge against the bill, we gave through the amendments, so on the day we discuss the details of our proposals. I hope you'll meet us and respect our amendments. What I expected, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, from our Mr. Minister, when he elaborated the Law on the Restriction of Property in order to prevent terrorism, is that, if I am not mistaken, he put our fellow citizens in the assembly procedure and I expected the minister to tell us that the Ministry or someone in charge of the Ministry did not follow the path of the law which entered the assembly procedure, so, after the law was followed by a sublegal act, the Ministry without the adoption of the law, 25. 12. In 2014, the Government adopted the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on customs procedures for goods, etc., published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 145 of 2014 I expected an explanation from Mr. Minister that we first adopted regulations in the government, and then in relation to regulations, i.e. On the contrary, we are now adopting a law on the basis of which regulations were to be passed. Mr. Minister, I expected you to comment and explain. It is normal that we will adopt such a law and it is a alignment with EU documents, but at least we should know that we have done something by heart and that it is a reason for urgency, because someone in your ministry was not dealing with the problem for which he was paid. What I would like to say a few sentences is the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia of 15m euros for the energy efficiency project in public buildings. I sincerely hope, and I strongly support these loans and such investments, because this is something that primarily employs the economy, and on the other hand reduces the consumption of energy resources in Serbia, but what I would like not to happen is that we withdraw this loan and enter into a credit arrangement without having projects. So something like the Beograd on Water case doesn't happen, let's say, that we sell buildings where we haven't done it yet, or passed expropriation laws, let alone expropriate land. I hope for this 15 million we have projects and we'll be hiring funds. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to you, and that is that you should look at the Party's programme "Together for Serbia", especially the part relating to the economy, because, energy efficiency is something where we propose to be a driver of the development of the Republic of Serbia, because in Serbia there are a million and a half objects that need to be energy security, and we are deeply convinced that this is something that would trigger both the construction industry and the industry that produces these materials. That's why you should look at it, because there's no "holy grail" in the economy, no firm that can make a better job...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23987	Thank you, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23988	Thank you, but just one more sentence. ... but we can only do it with our brains and our engagement. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23989	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23990	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the first joint principled search, I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Law, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs infringements. Starting with the fact that the basic definition of the Republic of Serbia to become a full member of the World Trade Organisation and the EU is a requirement to bring national legislation into line, including customs regulations with EU legislation and rules of the World Trade Organisation. The harmonisation of national legislation regulating the transit procedure is a prerequisite for obtaining the approval of the EU Joint Committee, the EFTA, to join the Convention on Common Transit. This is why individual amendments and additions to the Customs Law were necessary, in order to allow for the development and application of a new computerised transit system which represents compatible applications for national transit, in accordance with the systems and procedures of the Convention on Common Transit and the rules for a new computerised transit system, as well as with the solutions contained in the EU Customs Law. Of course, these changes and additions did not violate the fundamental objective of the law, which is to protect the economic, fiscal and financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the Republic of Serbia from illegal trafficking, security, human and environmental protection, as well as facilitating international trade. In order to achieve the objectives of the customs authorities, the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Methods Act have been modernised, and cooperation between different sectors will be established or strengthened. Modernisation is particularly noticeable in the application of a new system, a new computerised transit system that I would like to say more about this occasion. The basic principle of the customs transit procedure is to allow the movement of goods from one customs office to another within the same customs territory or other customs territory, without the collection of customs duties and other duties which may be applied to imported or exported goods without applying a commercial policy measure, provided that all the requirements relating to fillings, deadlines or security are met and so on. Transit can be a national customs transit procedure when the transit procedure applies only to the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the customs office of destination is located on this territory. The international customs transit procedure is a transit movement as part of a single customs transit operation, during which one or more borders are crossed in accordance with bilateral or multilateral agreements, and the starting and destination customs office is located in different customs territories. For the very reason of increased trade and for the purpose of transporting goods across Europe, two conventions have been drawn up between the European Community and the EFTA countries. One set up a common transit procedure, while the other prescribes a simplification of formalities in trade in goods, imports and exports by introducing a single customs document. In particular, the newly computerised transit system covers: under one, a common transit procedure and under two, a common transit procedure. A common transit is used for the transport of goods not in free circulation to the EU between two points within the EU without payment of import duties and other compensations. The common transit procedure shall be used for the transport of goods between 28 EU Member States and other States of the Convention on a common transit procedure from the EFTA countries – Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Turkey. In the Republic of Serbia, the EU is the largest donor in the customs sector, which promotes modernisation and compliance with European standards, as well as with legal acts and procedures. The technical assistance project and the Serbian Customs Administration to support the modernisation of customs systems mainly refers to the development of a newly computerised transit system and to the accession of Serbia to the Convention on a common transit procedure. The customs administration in co-operation with the EU delegation in Belgrade has successfully completed a project to build the administrative capacity of the customs service for the full implementation of the EU's common transit. 1.5m euros were spent in relation to the project from the IPA Fund, while 4.1m euros were provided for the implementation of Serbia's newly computerised transit system. The introduction of such a system is one of the conditions for full EU membership. The European Commission and all EU member states, as well as all EFTA countries, have developed and implemented a computerised transit system. The plan is for Serbia to introduce a new computerised transit system in its customs area during 2015, based on the exchange of electronic messages between national and international customs offices and the EU. The greatest benefit from the new system is the unprinted business, i.e. the ability to use the message exchange system. Instead of the current registration procedure for vehicles and goods, this will allow the once submitted declaration to clear the entire course of transport, more specifically, to be known at any time where the goods are located. One of the most important things will be the automated import and export information system, which will allow the once submitted document no longer to be submitted. This will result in significant savings in money. When we talk about keeping cargo vehicles at the border, using a new computerized transit system that time will be reduced to a minimum. Average retention in Batrovci is 34 minutes, on Horgos 40, on Gradina about 40, on Presevo about 20 minutes. When a new system is introduced, there will be no waiting at the border. In fact, all documents of an exporter, an operator or a freighter will be submitted electronically as soon as the goods move forward, so that the time of stay at the borders is reduced to a minimum, and it is eliminated or reduced to the minimum possible subjectivity of those who exercise control. It is known that preparations for the application of the new system have already begun and that certain difficulties have arisen, but we are confident that our state authorities will be able to implement the new system fully by 1 October of this year, when it is time for Serbia to become part of a single European transit system. What is also extremely important is the EU's idea of being helpful in the economy, and this is just being achieved through this new system. In this respect, it is possible for individual companies to obtain privileged status, i.e. to obtain the right to stamp, determine the level of customs duty and to pay the money on that basis. Their economic operators will do everything themselves. They will fill out the declarations, place the fillings, send the vehicles, and customs will have access to computers and occasionally control the data and physically check those performing customs duties. In the event of abuse of this right, customs will take it away forever, and the offenders will be subjected to constant control. The goal is not to keep the economy and separate the good from the bad. The average in Europe is about 10% of companies that do not respect regulations. Then the question arises: Why do the others, and the 90 percent, suffer because of the irresponsible? Amendments and additions to the Customs Law also provide for simplification of the processing of minor offences, with a significant reduction in costs for state authorities, which is a alignment with the new Law on Infringements. In fact, by breaking orders, the authorities of the administration will receive an effective means of sanctioning minor infringements for which a fine is prescribed in a fixed amount. As the perpetrators of the violations offer the possibility that in the event of payment of half of the fines imposed within the time limit for voluntary payment they will receive significant savings, a significant increase in the number of voluntary fines is expected, and thus an increase in total revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of the collection of these fines. For all other offences for which a fine has been prescribed in the range, the authorities of the administration will be obliged to apply to the competent criminal court for the initiation of the infringement procedure. Next, Article 2. The bill is subject to amendments that are made to the customs terminology and to the EU Customs Law. In Articles 10 to 13. The draft laws are amended and complemented by provisions concerning goods leaving the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. summary declarations, so these members are subject to conditions as regards the deadline, as well as cases where they are not lodged, as well as the way in which this declaration is submitted, under which conditions commercial, port and transport documents can be used as summary declarations. Also, these members are governed by who can submit the summary declaration and when and under what conditions can the addition of this declaration be granted. Articles 14 and 15 relate to changes relating to security for payment of customs debt. Instead of the current bank guarantee as a form of security, it is envisaged that any person with residence, or registered in the Republic of Serbia, can be guaranteed if the proposed guarantee is acceptable according to the customs authority's assessment. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the prevention, investigation and repression of customs offences, it allows the implementation of a bilateral international agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania to prevent and combat violations of customs regulations, combat smuggling, speed up trade between the two countries and exchange of experience in the work of customs authorities. In addition, the confirmation of this Agreement provides for the correct application of customs regulations through the exchange of information. The agreement was made in Belgrade on 10 November 2014, resulting in the fact that violations of customs regulations damages the two countries' economic, commercial, financial, social, cultural, industrial, agricultural interests, with the aim of preventing them through effective co-operation by customs authorities. The agreement clearly defines and precises the co-operation of the customs authorities of the two countries, starting with mutual administrative assistance, exchanges of information, documents, notifications, through the correct application of customs regulations and operations, in order to prevent, investigate and combat infringements of customs regulations, up to concrete actions in the exercise of customs duties. In addition, Article 19 provides that: under one, the provisions of the Agreement are to be applied by the customs authorities of the Contracting States; under two, to educate a mixed Serbian-Albanian Commission, meeting as required by any customs authority to analyse the implementation of the provisions of this Agreement, as well as to resolve the issues which may arise in its application; under three, to resolve the issues which are not found by an appropriate solution by agreement between the Contracting Parties; and under four, that foreign Contracting Parties meet at the request or at the end of five years for the purpose of its audit, unless one of the other issues in writing informing that such audit is not necessary. In this way, another step has been taken towards better regional co-operation and stability, which is the goal of our government, and also another successful task of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Due to all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Customs Code in the voting day, as well as the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the prevention, investigation and repression of customs offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23991	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23992	The President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers with representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, is in front of us today a very important set of laws on which, when it comes to the bill on amendments and amendments to customs law, the proposal for a law on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs offences, as well as a bill on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in detail and systematically spoke by my colleagues Neđe Jovanovic, Zvonko Stevic and Djorđe Milicevic. Today, I will focus mostly on the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Main, and the Republic of Serbia of 15,000,000 euros for the implementation of the "Energy Efficiency in Public Objects" project. What is very important is to point out that we are aware that the sum of 15,000,000 euros is a large sum and a large loan and therefore is the obligation and responsibility of the Republic of Serbia to implement this project so that long-term effects are seen after it, i.e. the implementation of this project brings long-term benefits to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, both in a more rational distribution of energy sources and increasing use of renewable energy sources, and in increasing energy efficiency in energy consumption. What is very important and what we need to pay attention to is that there are key characteristics in terms of energy consumption in the Republic of Serbia, and these are parameters that are completely different from those in the EU. So it's up to us to save, both in energy consumption and in energy bills, and also to preserve the environment in terms of carbon dioxide emissions pollution. I'd like to list some parameters. In Serbia, energy is still being spent, as in the 1960s in the EU. The average energy consumption per square metre in Serbia is about two and a half times higher than in northern Europe. Energy consumption per unit of gross social product in Serbia is three times the global average. The emissions of carbon dioxide per unit of gross social product are at least twice the world average. About half of all households in Serbia spend 340 kilowatts per metre per square year, three times as much as Western European countries. About 60% of the population uses wood or lignite as the main source of energy for heating, sanitary hot water and cooking. Chronic diseases, including respiratory pain, are directly related to significant internal space pollution. After signing the Stabilisation Agreement with the EU, Serbia is obliged to adapt EU regulations to directives, including the Energy Efficiency Directive of Buildings. The full application of this Directive requires full restructuring of applicable building regulations that have not changed since the late 1980s. The fact and key thing about the implementation of this project is that Serbia has been wasting irrational energy in construction and most of that energy is being spent on heating, and given the high temperatures during the summer, in the last few years, also on cooling these facilities. However, we must in no way interfere with the mind that Serbia has the technical potential to save energy and to use energy more efficiently. However, market potential is much more modest than this because much of our nation and our citizens, energy consumers, are poor. There is insufficient motivation to invest in increasing energy efficiency. Also, credit conditions are still unfavourable and informative of our citizens. So we must try and change the awareness of our citizens and how important it is to save at the expense of more efficient energy use. What is, therefore, the essence of the investment of the 15,000,000-euro said loan is to invest in savings that will have long-term effects and stabilise the energy sector's more efficient use of energy using renewable energy sources. Therefore, the objective of realising a project to increase energy efficiency in public facilities is to use energy more efficiently, but also to create energy stability in the Republic of Serbia, which, apart from a large number of natural resources it owns, has great potential for such a thing. We have to work to preserve the environment, for us and for our successors, that is, to allow carbon dioxide emissions to be reduced. We have to advocate doing financial savings in this way, not only in terms of using different sources of energy, but also in financial terms, because this savings will not be negligible in some long term. Also, I believe that it is also the obligation of local self-government to participate in the realization of this project. In what way? The fact is that it is necessary to prepare technical documentation and allow this project to be implemented more easily. The fact is that it is possible for each local self-government to provide technical support for the implementation of this project and, if possible, to contribute financially to the realization of this project. Due to all the mentioned effects and benefits, which will be felt by all the consumers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the budget from which it stands out for energy consumption in public buildings and buildings, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of these laws and this constructive bill that I was talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23993	Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm setting a break from one hour, so we'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing today's work. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23995	Dear Vice President, Mr Arsic, the Honored Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will say in a few sentences about the proposal for a law on restrictions, the availability of property to prevent terrorism and the second, the bill on the approval of the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia. Based on the provision of chapter seven. The UN Charter, the Republic of Serbia is committed to undertaking obligations as an equal member of the UN to implement resolutions adopted by the Security Council. The honourable MPs of the UN resolution are thus delivered daily. The UN Security Council has passed a large number of resolutions that prescribe the application of repressive measures against terrorism and its finances. What are these repressive measures against terrorism? There's a lot of them, I'll only mention three groups. These are, firstly, measures to prevent the use of the territory of the state by terrorists and their financiers. Second, effective border control with the aim of preventing terrorist and their finances from crossing UN member states and third countries, a group of prevention measures, the use of assets and the financial resources of terrorists and their finances. All UN members, including the Republic of Serbia as a full member of the UN, are obliged to lay down rules governing the restriction and availability of assets and financial resources located in the territory of a UN member. The Republic of Serbia also obliges membership in the Council of Europe to assess the implementation of law in the area of criminal and financial regulation within certain bodies of the Security Council, which are dealing with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the opposition bench are not right today to criticise that we are late with this law. I will quote the answers, quote: "The Republic of Serbia, according to the Council of Europe officials, has a complete discrepancy of the system with international standards in the area of prevention, the availability of terrorist assets, and has been requested as soon as possible to adopt regulations," the quote concluded. Since the assessment was given in 2009, and repeated in 2012, when the Republic of Serbia received a negative assessment as completely out of line, all responsibility lies with the former government, the former DS regime, either one wing or another. It is therefore good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed this law to the MPs for consideration and adoption. By passing this law, the Republic of Serbia fulfils both its European and international obligations to bring its acts into line with international acts to prevent the availability of assets to terrorists and their financiers, as well as to strengthen the security of its citizens, which is also the constitutional obligation not only to the Government of the Republic of Serbia but also to all its citizens. This second law, i.e. the draft law on the loan agreement between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15m euros for the Energy Efficiency project in the public sector, has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us the MPs in the National Assembly, as you know, the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. To remind you once again, this exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, has been the most fundamental, most comprehensive, most precise and greatest of all previous 72 exposés since 1805, since the time of the first President of Prote Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. The agreement also holds its foothold in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, which we MPs of the National Assembly adopted, which in Article 3 provides that the Republic of Serbia can be in charge of Germany's Bank Development in Frankfurt, May, up to 15m euros, to implement a project of energy efficiency in the public sector. Dear Members, this project will help, firstly, to expand awareness of the importance of energy efficiency, secondly the EU's transfer of knowledge in the field of improvement and implementation of legislation, thirdly the integration of all relevant participants in the field of energy efficiency, the fourth higher quality of education and education of our students, as it is about the recovery of education and education facilities, primarily schools and the fifth improvement of the conditions of stay, both our patients in hospitals, thus and the lives and work of our medical staff, as it is about the repair and reconstruction of certain homes of health and hospitals. The project itself deals with the application of energy efficiency measures in public facilities, both social purposes, such as schools, hospitals, etc. I must point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this project was launched long ago in 2007. This bill has been a continuation of the continuity of the project since 2007, and the implementation of the first as well as this was carried out in certain phases. At the right stage of the first project, the implementation of the project was renovated in that part of 28 schools and hospitals in more than 25 local self-governments across Serbia. In the second phase of the project, 62 buildings, schools and hospitals, institutions of social ageing in more than 50 towns and municipalities of the Republic of Serbia were renovated. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, would probably have improved and rehabilitated a number of schools and hospitals if it hadn't been for Mr Bozidar Djelic, who in his wise decision of 2003 on exchange rates and lost, thanks to him, the state of 300m euros, because he decided to convert two billion government debt into euro, and shortly thereafter, the US currency lost 25% of its value. It's a statement from the Fiscal Council, because the Fiscal Council knows why such a decision was made. However, because there was no expert analysis, which was repeated in 2011 and when Serbia started to borrow in dollars and borrowed five billion euros, and then the dollar strengthened, so the debt again increased thanks to the exchange rate gaps by 500m euros again thanks to DS, and this time also to Mr Djelic and Mr Cvetkovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Serbia is taking this loan on favourable terms. The interest rate will be fixed for the entire period from the duration of the loan and the interest rate will be 2.1% at the annual level. As both colleagues and colleagues have said, the loan will be returned in the period 2017 to 2026. What is important is that the implementation of the entire project will focus on schools, which is very important in order to ensure adequate conditions for our students to stay in schools, which will certainly reflect the success and quality of knowledge of our students. In addition, the project aims to improve the energy properties of buildings, schools with the aim of reducing energy consumption and also improving the conditions for learning and working both our students and our teachers. The project will include improving energy conditions in 30 and 40 school facilities, respectively. In the first phase, 20 school facilities that were scheduled for rehabilitation will be reconstructed through the World Bank project, and in the second phase, a reconstruction of around 15 to 20 facilities will be opened that will be selected in co-operation with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Slovenia. All in all, this project will achieve significant savings in energy consumption both in schools and other institutions and thus have a positive impact on the RS budget from which schools are financed. The agreement will be voted by SNS MPs, as has been the representative of the parliamentary group, our president of the parliamentary group already said, and I call on you, gentlemen of the people from the opposition benches, to give your vote both for this law and other laws because you will at least show your commitment to modernising Serbia for which Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the whole Government of RS has been assisted by Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23996	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Vesna Simic, and let the MP Irena Alexic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23997	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Arsic, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of RS, I will look back at the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Customs System Act. The current Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs System Act was adopted in 2010, and complemented by the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No 111 of 2012. What is of particular importance in this law, however, is the fact that customs procedures are simplified. However, the paper contained in this law came under the RS' definition of becoming a full member of the EU and the World Trade Organisation. It is also an important fact, contained in the amendments to the law, that a new computer transit system be applied, as well as the protection of economic, fiscal, monetary and financial interests. The new law also regulates customs operations and procedures, as well as the rights and obligations of natural persons, as well as the customs authority. In line with this, penalties for breach of customs regulations are also provided for, and all in accordance with EU law governing this matter. The papers also include amendments to the part which regulates the jurisdiction of the authority to conduct the infringement procedure. All the proposed newspapers contained in the amendments and additions to the Law are new but are also modern, transparent and in line with the progressive laws applicable in the EU countries and the World Economic Organisation. The implementation of these newspapers does not require financial resources from the RS budget, which is of particular importance. As regards the proposal for a law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, this law provides for solutions that best restrict the availability of terrorist assets, which is a visible improvement in the 2010 law that prescribed the jurisdiction of state authorities to legal and physical persons without explicitly disseminating the concepts of property, marked face, financing of terrorism and others. All the proposed newspapers are in line with EU laws, and we as a country preparing for full EU membership, as I have just pointed out, should accept all positive solutions. Article 2 of the law immediately explains what a terrorist is, what a terrorist organisation is, as well as some other concepts regulated by the Security Council and the UN. In addition to the UN and the European Community, the same terms are set, and these terms are accepted by the RS. What is meant by the notion of terrorists and what are the national competences of the state, and based on data from world and European institutions? A marked face marks a terrorist. Marked face i.e. The terrorist is the person marked by the UN and other international organisations whose member is our country. The government of our country is the one who, on the basis of reasonable convictions, stands for such a person. The second is based on a proposal from state authorities, based on confidence, and the third is a request from another country based on Security Council 1373 and the UN, and based on the already established list of designated persons at the level of the world organisation. Each change is delivered to the MUP and information is constantly exchanged between countries. With these amendments to the law, our law is in line with world and European principles. The newspaper also looks at what a marked face can complain about in the administrative process. I will vote in the voting day not only for these draft legislative solutions, but also for a full set of laws that are on the agenda today, and I hope that all of my colleagues from the SNS will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23998	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Irena Alexic, and let the MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u23999	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, one of the laws we are discussing today is also the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. It is a very important law whose adoption of the RS meets its international obligations and also harmonizes its rules with EU rules and with the resolutions of the Council of Europe. This bill very detailedly and very precisely determines what these are and what kind of legal mechanisms are used to freeze the assets of persons found on terrorist lists, their financials and their helpers. What we are definitely all witnessing is that terrorism has become a global problem and that there is no state that is safe and safe when it comes to terrorism. What is the worst and most dangerous of all is that terrorism is constantly developing, which has evolved over the past years, and thus the fight against terrorism must be the same. So it must not be static, and it must be constantly working to improve the fight against terrorism. It must be effective and, most importantly, it must be very well coordinated and coordinated internationally. Because it's clearly very difficult to fight at a national level against one of these phenomena, almost impossible. International co-operation is needed here. So by adopting this law, which is exactly what I was talking about, which is improving the fight against terrorism, the Republic of Serbia will only win because the security and security of our country will be raised to one higher level. What is the feature of this bill is that throughout the law insists on efficiency, but it also insists on the protection of human rights, especially in Article 21. It's a bill of law. It is clear here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to submit once a year a report to the National Assembly on the implementation of this law, and when one such sensitive substance covered by this law is, I believe, another additional control mechanism and how it is necessary and certainly welcome. That's how you get in multiple fields. It is obtained in the field of transparency, and it also acts preventively to avoid any errors or possible abuses. When it comes to the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Code, it is another example of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. The main objective of these changes and additions is to ensure on the one hand one smooth international trade, while on the other hand the Republic of Serbia is protected from illegal and illegal trade in every way possible. It is a balance that is not easy to achieve and which must be regulated by law. So something like that is necessary. Also, these changes and additions are also affecting customs offences and I think it's very positive to introduce a misdemeanor order for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that it is significantly speeding up and simplifying the process of processing milder customs offences, by putting individuals, or persons who have committed a customs offence now into the choice of whether they want to pay voluntarily and in such a way significantly saving, which they, of course, accept because it is in their best interest, and this is very positive for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Then, when it comes to this area, we also have another agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing, investigating and combating customs offences. The main objective of this Agreement is to improve mutual co-operation between these two countries in this area through active exchange of experiences, information, data, and all in order to prevent and prevent smuggling. In general, the aim is to respect and implement all customs regulations until the end. One more thing I would point out, and what is of great importance to this agreement, is that it clearly and unequivocally shows the willingness of the government of the Republic of Serbia to work constantly to improve regional co-operation, which is also important. What I would particularly underline, its willingness to co-operate with absolutely all the countries of the region, without exception, which is certainly something that comes across a very positive assessment of the international community. At the very end of my presentation, I would take this opportunity to point out one fact, that it is constantly working to improve the quality of our legislation, which I think is more than commendable, as well as to really see an extraordinary hard work and effort that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making daily to achieve its strategic goal, its strategic commitment, which is to make Serbia a full member of the EU and the World Trade Organisation. The draft laws we discussed today are also a significant step in this direction and will, of course, receive full support from the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24000	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let the MP Ljiljana Malušić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24001	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is in front of us today a set of laws that are absolutely in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia, and the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is the way to the EU. Accordingly, the first law I will focus on is the Law on restricting the availability of property, and in order to prevent terrorism. First, I must point out that this law, apart from harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, stems from the fact that in 2002 Serbia ratified the International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorist Financing, and by ratifying that convention it also assumed a legal obligation to fund terrorism as a criminal act. That's what it's done to Article 393. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, apart from identifying terrorist financing as a criminal offense, it is a obligation for the UN's state to take all other preventive measures, and to combat terrorism as one great monster, as a horror, as a violence that, unfortunately, appears today at a global level. Apart from the ratified conventions of the Council of Europe, of course, our obligations stem from EU documents, and I must stress that the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering of the Republic of Serbia has been a member of the Egmont Group since 2003, or a group of international intelligence organisations, whose tasks are also one of the tasks of international co-operation and compliance with EU regulations. These are the preconditions that led to this bill being found before us today. The bill is also important in terms of increasing the credibility of our country's Republic of Serbia in international relations, i.e. from the aspect of increasing confidence in the Republic of Serbia in the fight against terrorism. Also, this law is also significant from the aspect of the security and security of all its citizens, but it is also important from the aspect of the stability of our country's financial institutions and the trust of other countries in the work of financial institutions. This law is also important from the point of view of attracting other institutions, i.e. other potential investors into our country. What is regulated by this law is the measures taken and taken by state authorities in order to limit the availability of property, which is, of course, intended to prevent terrorism. It has been established exactly for which reasons persons are placed on the list, i.e. the reasons that lead to individual persons being found on the list of designated persons, but, of course, it is precise and accurate and the whole procedure of the conduct of certain bodies. Of course, the Government brings a list of designated persons with a solution. The list is published in the "Official Messenger" and thus provide transparency. With this bill, the Government is legally obliged to review this list of designated persons at least once a year, and of course from the aspect of the protection of the human rights of these persons and of course from the protection of the human rights of these persons and, of course, from the point of view of transparency and how important it is that the Government, once a year or in March of the current year, submit a report to the National Assembly on the effects of the measures taken. It is also very important for Article 8 of the law, which applies to the obligation of legal and natural persons, that if they come with persons on this list, that without delay, and there is a deadline, that deadline is 24 hours, that they inform the Directorate of the Prevention of Money Laundering, and that they suspend any action within the next seven days, i.e. to obtain a solution or to receive notice that they can continue their activities. From the point of view of the protection of human rights, as regards the designated persons, and how important it is that they can initiate judicial proceedings, i.e., they can initiate administrative disputes, and it is very important that the procedure in the administrative dispute is considered particularly urgent, i.e. the court is obliged to act within 30 days. It is also important, from a human point of view, and Article 15, which refers to a designated person being able to initiate court proceedings, and in order to exclude part of the property relating to the use, i.e. to meet his living needs, such as nutrition, such as accommodation, such as paying for legal services, such as paying for medical services, means, all those needs that concern meeting the basic human needs. I must also point out that experts and international experts participated in the drafting of this law, that OSCE experts participated and, of course, that their suggestions, in particular regarding respect for human rights, became an integral delicacy and they were respected. As far as customs laws are concerned, I would like to point out that the law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code is actually a matter of speeding up the efficiency of the customs procedure through a new computerised transit system, which means that electronic communication reduces the time of detention of transit goods through our country. I must also point out that this law also complies with the Law on Infringements, and, of course, through the introduction of a criminal order, and the payment of fines that are less, which are fixed, given that through the adoption of the earlier Law on State Administration, customs authorities are no longer able to conduct a misdemeanour procedure, but courts do so. In order to reduce the grey economy, in order to reduce customs offences, I would particularly like to emphasise the agreement signed by the Government of Serbia with the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on 10 November 2014, which concerns strict compliance with customs rules, administrative support, support in the exchange of knowledge, experience, the formation of a mixed Serbian-Albanian commission, which, of course, consists of representatives of customs authorities and which will work to monitor this agreement. Bilateral agreements with all countries, and especially with countries in our environment and how significant they are also from an even greater aspect of our country's reputation. Our country is open to co-operation with all countries, especially countries in our immediate environment, especially when it comes to preventing the gray economy and preventing customs violations. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24002	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24003	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected ministry gentlemen, respected fellow MPs, today I will speak of four laws, first of all, is the first law to limit the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. This law prescribes actions and measures for the restriction and availability of the property of designated persons, the competence of the national authorities for the application of these measures, as well as the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons in the application of the provisions of this law. First of all, it should be said that the Republic of Serbia is currently chairing the OSCE, and as such, it is stressing two tasks. The first is the fight against terrorism, and the second is the crisis in Ukraine. The restriction on the availability of assets is a temporary ban on transfer, conversion, availability and transfer of assets or temporary management of those assets on the basis of a decision by the competent national authority. The Republic of Serbia is a full member of the UN organisation, and as a full member it has an extremely large number of obligations and responsibilities, above all, is obliged to fully bring its legislation into line with the ratified UN conventions. Member States are taking measures to implement UN Security Council resolutions. The Security Council has also adopted a series of resolutions that are prescribed primarily repressive measures against terrorists, terrorist organisations and their finances. We know that every kind of terrorism is the cancer of this society and that this evil really needs to be eradicated. Unfortunately, we are witnessing very ugly images everywhere in the world, I hope that one day, it will certainly not stop, but at least it will be in a smaller form. One of the obligations arising from the membership of the Council of Europe multilateral evaluation of the implementation of laws in the area of criminal and financial regulation within the body of the Council of Europe dealing with the prevention of money laundering, the financing of terrorism, etc. ‘Manivel’. Our country has been assessed by a negative assessment in 2012 and that is why we are passing this law by a brief procedure. The aim of adopting this law is to improve the fight against terrorism, by establishing a system of preventive and repressive measures against terrorist financing as a previous necessary phase in carrying out terrorist acts. Any kind of terrorism requires multilateral co-operation. Without multilateral co-operation, there is no improvement in not one country in this world. In 2002. The Republic of Serbia has ratified the international Convention to combat terrorist financing. International standards in the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are prescribed by the intergovernmental organisation FAT or the Financial Action Group in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The FAT organization that has adopted documents called FAT 40 recommendations against money laundering and terrorist financing and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction that represents the basic standard in this area. It is a basic document by which all international organisations work in preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. The international organization of financial intelligence services, so-called The FOS aims to raise the level of international co-operation and exchange of financial intelligence related to money laundering and terrorist financing. The organisation's membership also implies a rapid harmonisation of rules with international standards especially in the area of international co-operation. The restriction on the availability of terrorist property, i.e. marked persons, is not regulated in our legislation, so it is necessary to regulate this area by law. This law prescribes obligations for the following entities: public authorities are considered, of course, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the military, the authority responsible for security and intelligence affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, associations, foundations, donations, all minors. The draft Restricted Law, the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism, formed a working group involving representatives of the anti-money laundering administration, the justice ministry, the interior ministry and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Experts from the Council of Europe and the European Security and Co-operation Organisation also participated in the draft law. Due to the specificity of the substance that regulates this law, other important organisations such as the OSCE have been invited in addition to those international entities, which suggested that the law should provide legal certainty in terms of the protection of human rights which could be compromised if a person is unfounded on the list. Then the person who was put on the list, and it's not wrong, has the right to sue the government. This law requires that the finance minister, within six months of the entry into force of the law, adopt sublaws that will regulate the manner in which legal and natural persons will comply with their reporting obligations and the manner in which the competent state authority will act under the notices made. The Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering as the central authority of the Republic of Serbia informs the public about the phenomenal forms of money laundering and terrorist financing. The second law I'm going to talk about is a bill on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act. Customs law was passed in 2010 and it is one of the better laws. First of all, since it simplifies customs procedures, there is the possibility of submitting customs documents by electronic means leading to speed in the customs procedure as well as a lot of savings in external trade. The Republic of Serbia as a country of accession to the EU and to the World Trade Organisation has the obligation to bring national legislation into line, including customs regulations with EU legislation, the rules of the World Trade Organisation, and that is one of the most significant obligations of state authorities. Starting from this fact, it was necessary to enter individual amendments and additions into the Customs Law in order to allow for the development, but also the application of a new computerised transit system, compatible applications for national transit. There are also amendments and additions to the work that regulates the matter of customs offences, all in order to protect the economic, fiscal and financial interests of the Republic of Serbia against illegal trafficking, human safety and the environment, as well as facilitate international trade. All participants in the customs procedure are obliged to act in accordance with the rules because every disregard for the rules is a sanction. The offence is defined as an illegal act which, by law and by other regulation of the competent authority, is designated as a violation for which criminal sanctions are prescribed. Violations can be prescribed by law or regulation, i.e. by a decision of the Parliament of the AP, the Assembly of the Municipality, the City Assembly and the Assembly of the City of Belgrade. The new law introduces the Institute of Violation which will be issued by the authorities of the Violation Authority for which fines are provided for in a fixed amount. This law has a lot of termological changes. First of all, instead of the director of the customs administration, there is now a replacement and it is the customs authority, and then the word "tariff management" is replaced by the words "that authority" etc. The fines from five thousand to 500 thousand dinars that existed and that, 100,000 dinars for a legal person, 10,000 dinars for a natural person and 50,000 dinars for entrepreneurs. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The third law, which I will talk about briefly because my colleagues have mostly said a bill on confirming the loan agreement between the KFV Frankfurt Development Bank in Main and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 15m euros for the energy project, efficiency in public buildings. The Republic of Serbia is taking a loan under the conditions of KFV, which is scheduled to withdraw loans in tranches with an interest rate to be fixed for the entire duration of the loan and will amount to 2.1% on an annual basis. The duration of the loan is 12 years. The Republic of Serbia will repay this loan in 19 consecutive half-year wars starting on 30 December 2017. The non-restriction fee is 0.25% a year on outstanding amounts of loans. The Republic of Serbia will pay a commission to organise a one-time deal of 0.5% of the principal loan. This project is very important because it refers to cultural institutions as well as schools, above all to schools, and this project covers between 30 and 40 schools, and the point is an energy improvement which would mean saving energy. The fourth law I will discuss is the bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in preventing and investigating customs violations. This is very important because this law suppresses the gray economy. By passing this kind of law, we'll be able to fill our budget, finally, which has been pretty empty in the last 20 years. Both parties consider that infringements of customs regulations damage their economic commercial financial, social and cultural interests as well as industrial and agricultural interests. Therefore, their close co-operation of customs authorities with regard to imports or exports and ensuring the correct application of measures on prohibitions, restrictions and controls, as well as the correct application of legal provisions and regulations relating to counterfeit goods and registered trade marks, is necessary. This law prevents smuggling, facilitates and speeds up goods and passenger traffic between the two countries. Confirmation of this Agreement provides for the correct application of customs rules through the exchange of information between the two countries, which has not been the case so far, goods have mostly ended where they do not have to, in order to precisely establish customs duties, taxes and other import or export charges, in order to determine the tariff classification of goods, customs value, origin of goods, as well as the correct application of the provisions relating to prohibitions, restrictions and controls. For this bill, of course, it is not necessary to allocate additional funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In voting day, the SNS will support the proposal of these laws, of course, and my smallness, and I would stress that it is very important that we adopt all these four laws for the simple reason that these laws give Serbia a new reputation in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24004	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirko Cikiriz, and let the MP Balša Bozovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm going to try these seven and a few minutes to say something that, I think, no one has said today. As for the amendments and additions to the Customs Code, of course we will support it, because somehow the first impression you get about a country is that moment when you get to the border of a particular country. When you see customs officers, their behavior, whether they're corrupt, how customs works, you know who you're dealing with. Of course, it is a good thing that customs procedures are simplified, which will protect the economic, fiscal, financial interests of the Republic of Serbia, but what we have shown to your predecessors several times and what shows that your Ministry has absolutely and is available, and what shows independent analyses, is that these internal controls that have existed for decades and are certainly largely networked with existing customs structures not sufficiently efficient, as they are seen to be greater losses in the Republic of Serbia's budget, because they often apply smaller customs rates, a lower customs base and that a lot of goods without customs are passing. At the time of that customs growth, the famous Lazar Pacu, the royal finance minister, had just seduced one of the first measures – seducing order on customs and it gave effect after only a year that our budget was almost doubled, and we had a customs war. Secondly, the need to introduce these external controls and even external controls and those controls should not, say, know whether they will go to one or another border crossing tomorrow, etc. This is done in many countries, and I believe that you think similarly. I see, of course, that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism and regardless of the various definitions that international organisations provide and all those dealing with international terrorism and terrorism as a general concept, it seems to me today that the objective of terrorism is to achieve, above all, political goals, the intimidation of the population of those citizens who are not in direct conflicts, not the opposing sides, lead their lives. The intimidation of governments, the intimidation of international organisations in order to achieve certain political goals, and it is good that the Republic of Serbia is after receiving these negative assessments, and I do not understand why this law and some previous governments did not put in the assembly procedure, because not only is the existence of this law and its application, but this collective security system is very important for raising our country's international reputation, because we must be collective and solid in modern security challenges that are not limited to the territory of some country, and it is also about modern cases of piracy such as on the coasts of East Africa on the fight against the pandemic, not only against terrorism. It's a good thing we have here, it's been said for years and decades that we have terrorist organizations, terrorists as individuals. It is certain that the security structures have these lists, but it is good to say now, officially, that we will clearly define terrorist organisations and persons, or those suspected of being threatened by terrorism. Secondly, I am as SPO Vice-President very proud of my political organization because we have never been turned to ourselves alone and we have shown a great kind of solidarity and responsibility for protecting the greatest Christian value called life. We never did, no matter what 16 years ago, my political party was a victim of terrorism, an internal terrorism nobody talked about today, which resulted in several assassination attempts on our party president Vuk Draskovic and the death of many prominent SPO officials. After these events and unfortunately the murders of Ivan Stambolic and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and journalists Slavko Curuvija and Dusan Simunovic and journalist Dade Vujasinovic and many others, we have never talked exclusively about what the Serbian Renewal Movement experienced. But that is why it is really necessary for all political parties, these days, to mark the anniversary of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and the Democratic Party and the Liberal Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party, whose President, in some ways, was Zoran Djindjic, whenever they mention the terrorist act, mentioning others, for solidarity. We kept asking them a political question – and why are you only talking about the murder of Zoran Djindjic when so many politicians and people who fought for Europe's Serbia lost their lives in those dark years? I think that this kind of focus on internal terrorism, solidarity and sending a clear political message is that no one should achieve political goals by making assassinations of the leader of the then united opposition, which will kill the man believed to be the presidential opponent of the then-President Milosevic, which will kill the journalist who was being led by the hack that NATO is a servant, and then further justify that type of crime. I think it's in political, human, Christian and any other sense inadmissible. I think it's a good thing that we're talking about solidarity with the international community and we're showing concern for international terrorism, which we're showing concern for innocent victims of civilians around the world, but at least at the same level we should point to victims of domestic terrorism involving important state structures, which should have taken care of the safety of all citizens, all politicians, and they just did everything to make sure that their safety is such that in the end many of them lose their lives. Serbia did not experience this a few hundred years ago or several centuries ago, but unfortunately only 16 years ago, and I think that when the story of this topic is mentioned, it is important to mention these painful experiences from our recent past, never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24006	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic, and let the MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24007	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, respected ministers, dear guests, when it comes to the proposal for a law on confirming a loan agreement between Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia for a 15m-euro energy efficiency project in public buildings, the Democratic Party will vote for this bill for a simple reason, which is all about energy efficiency and the way money is borrowed and spent in concrete things, in concrete projects and in concrete savings, the Democratic Party recognises as very important to Serbia and will vote for them. However, I cannot help but look back at a few things that we had the opportunity to talk about in the Assembly, and above all what we often return to, which is the irresponsible borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on other grounds. Nor can I look back on what is often a topic in the Republic Assembly and given the current developments, which is the new Law on Planning and Construction adopted by the National Assembly. In 2009, when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, one part concerning energy passports was introduced and this is the thing supported by the Democratic Party, which the Democratic Party voted for and of course was welcomed by all. In 2012, the engineering chamber, on the other hand, built together with the Ministry of Two Regulations in 2012 and trained 1,500 engineers from Serbia to work on energy passports when it comes to savings on public and other facilities. Those two regulations entered into force on 1 October 2012. However, upon coming to the power of the SNS, Zorana Mihajlovic as minister then passed a law on the efficient use of energy that remained a dead letter on paper. This is again what we are constantly returning from session to session, which is a matter of staff for which SNS has absolutely no answer. The dead letter on paper remains those laws that even have the support of the opposition and which are European, which are good, which are significant. Here, for example, for energy efficiency, but they cannot be implemented into action and of course they are not the only laws, for example, many have remained completely decapitated. The 2.1% interest on the annual level is something that has been influenced by the government by 2012 and these are contracts that have been negotiated since then and from that period and that is why I think they are really very, very useful. They are particularly useful when it comes to public facilities because Mr Vujovic forgot to tell the citizens that the price of electricity will be up 15%, not wanting to burden them. So energy efficiency is, in this sense, important for the simple reason that we're going to be able to save one piece, so at least in these public facilities, the price is going to be a little less than it would normally be. It also needs to make such things available to citizens and the DS advocates the energy efficiency available to citizens, so that citizens can save both gas and electricity and all other raw materials used for heating. It's also a thing that DS is trying to run as part of essential savings. This is where savings are done, not on the salaries of educators. There's savings here, not pensions for pensioners, who've earned those pensions fair and square by working their whole lives. In the end, it's being saved because tomorrow when we're on the chance, and it's going to be very soon, we're going to be able to get our pensions back to the pensioners that you've unconstitutionally reduced. Eight to nine billion euros from 2012 until today, Serbia has committed itself precisely in a way that does not benefit the citizens of Serbia. This will be brought back tomorrow by some of our children, some of the new kids in Serbia. Eight and nine billion euros is 195 euros per second, as much as the government of the Republic of Serbia is in debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24008	Mr. Bozovic, please return to the agenda. I let you go for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24009	I'm talking about debt, about borrowing money for energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24010	It's a dedicated loan. So, you're talking about him, it's not a public debt in a purely synthetic sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24011	Mr. Arsic, the public debt and this way of borrowing money is not controversial when used in concrete projects, and exactly, Mr. Arsic, I am saying that we support this way. We don't support this second, to borrow eight or nine billion, and to spend at nothing, on failed public enterprises, where tomorrow someone will be obliged to pay it back at very high interest rates. Once again, we have no objection and we will vote for this bill. Unfortunately, Mr Vujovic, who is a very large expert in his field, will remain remembered as the leader of a wrong policy, a savings policy that turned Serbia black, which took away pensions, educators and health workers' salaries and, unfortunately, will remain remembered as someone who borrowed a large amount of money we literally threw into the well. Therefore, for this reason, the DS is urging you to make this kind of thing as much as possible and to at least spend this 15 million on what it is intended for and for this reason I think that if, and never too late, change your policy, so much will be less bad for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24012	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24013	Thank you. Someone in today's debate said incorrect information that the first funds through KFW bank entered Serbia, to say, in 2007 for energy efficiency. That's not true. The first energy efficiency funds entered in 2001 during the government of Zoran Djindjic for heat exchange, for installation of calories, heat meter that would be used to save heat, and a certain amount of funds was directed to heat insulation. What I have listened carefully to this time is the fact that no one disputes the need for 15m euros to be invested in energy efficiency, i.e. for isolation, i.e. the installation of a carpentry that would save heat energy. However, almost all the debaters who spoke to the opposition asked you, Mr Vujovicu, and I ask you not to leave the hall, Mr Arsic is not as fast today as last time, when I ask you this – how much will it mean to be with this loan the total debt of the Republic of Serbia on today? So, with this 15m-euro loan, what is the total debt of the Republic of Serbia? No one contests these 15m euros, but I ask the question – did we and how much we have exceeded the legal limit of duties that the government should not do, because it makes a serious legal offense and, on the other hand, leads Serbia into a situation that will one day go bankrupt? That is why, Mr Vujovicu, you are responsible and need to tell us how much will be the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia with this loan today? On the other hand, in 2001, when we received energy efficiency funds, and to remind myself, those funds were irrevocable. Only later, in some subsequent stages, did they become credits under certain favourable conditions. It is a legitimate question – what will it really mean for the users of this construction carpentry, which will make them energy efficiency when you raise the price of electricity by 15%? True, you tried to prepare us for it by not telling us in time, but now you've told us. So these schools, institutions, etc., that will be saved through carpentry and isolation, will pay 15% more electricity in about 15, a month. You'll tell us in time, when we're at least burdened with some other pay cuts, pensions, etc. On the other hand, Mr Vujovic, you did not give an answer to my colleague Đurisic – is it true that our surplus is significant and why you do not invest in the repayment of credit or in some investments that could trigger the economy or reduce the debt, but that money, as Mr Vukic said, I do not know if it is true, says that you do not know how to spend it? Mr. Vujovicu, you're the finance minister, you should know the spending plan. If you take any money, you should know how to spend it. Mr. Wolf says that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24014	The theme, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24015	... that you know how to spend those funds you collect. On the other hand, Mr. Vujovic, this loan is in euros, but you've been taking credits in dollars for the past six, seven months, and we warned you on time. Say, credit for our state gas company, you took in dollars. We warned you then. How much, Mr. Vujovic, since you have defended yourself with silence today, you will probably finally give us the answer now, I end up with this, how much of Serbia's total credit debt in euros has been increased, the total debt, because of the fact that you were in debt in dollars instead of in euros, when it was not economically justified? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24016	Mr. Veselinović, please talk about the laws that are on the agenda. You have the right electronic unit. I'm the last time I warn you to go back to the agenda. When we discuss the budget, the public debt, I don't mind you talking about this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24017	Mr. Arsic, I was talking about debt. This is part of the total debt, but so I don't get you into an awkward situation, because you're probably getting signals that you should interrupt me, since I'm talking about real life, here, I'll end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24018	I'm not getting any calls. Keep going. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24019	Does the minister want to answer before he does? Here you go, Mr. Minister, so I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24020	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24021	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to answer in pieces on purpose, so I could have a chance in one place to answer more united things. Let me begin with my comments, or with my personal comment on today's discussion. I am extremely pleased with the quality, number and constructive proposals we have received, both from the position and from the opposition. We will do everything in our power, during the day and tomorrow, until the cabinet sits, that all amendments that improve the text of these laws, all amendments which, from grammatical mistakes to essential things relating to legal definition, and that seem to me to be some extremely important issues, which exceed the standard treatment of these laws, such as human rights issues and everything else, which are being opened, under the pretext, when we adopt forms and laws that are accepted as international standards or are accepted in other associations... This will be a great obligation for us when we adopt legislation on EU accession in the coming years. Therefore, these are very serious questions. We will try to the extent that we can and within the frameworks of the law, which were subject to the agenda, to respond in the best possible way and to adopt all constructive proposals. In particular, these are issues concerning the definition of procedures and all other elements that were the subject of today's discussion. I wouldn't go into details. That's what we'll consider when we discuss the amendments. I just want to mention one thing. These laws, which are on the agenda today, should not be observed in isolation. These laws are part of broader legal solutions that are in the field of combating terrorist financing, i.e. against money laundering, customs laws operate in one broader context of other laws, procedures and everything else. Therefore, these improvements, the changes we are talking about today, are part of which enables Serbia to catch up with the world in a specific segment, allow normal transit and thus achieve the best effects of those investments in infrastructure, where we separate from current consumption to ensure Serbia's inclusion in the system of European infrastructure projects, i.e. to enable Serbia to generate income from transit and transport in general. I will remind you, a few years ago, studies have been done that have shown convincingly that logistics, transport and infrastructure are key limits to development in Serbia. Thus, the completion of the infrastructure is one step, and allowing legal and other accompanying regulations to make projects out of these infrastructures, which will make Serbia an integral part of the European economic and infrastructure space the second part. Secondly, I thank you for a whole series of useful suggestions related to the idea of increasing energy efficiency in Serbia. I think several individual proposals deserve attention and we'll do everything we can in the future in the stages of preparing these projects, and not in the ratification phase, it seems to me that ratification is the last step ahead of implementation, all of these ideas, to use our own brains, to use domestic organisations that deal with these issues, and to signal this in the phase of project identification. We have a few big things going on parallel. One thing is to accept European standards and initiatives of the so-called The single list of priority projects, which is being launched for projects financed from European Community funds, but there are a whole range of other areas where we are lagging behind. One of the quotes mentioned here referred to our projects and our capacity to plan capital building, to prepare projects well, to prepare projects well for project implementation. One of our concerns about why we have a surplus in that part where we spend less capital part of the budget is precisely because we don't have enough well-prepared projects in many areas, we're not ready to implement them. Not because someone doesn't want to, but because there are a whole series of things: from the professional ability to prepare complex projects, sequences of such projects, to the legal and other constraints that make us normally within the deadlines, which are foreseen, normal laws and standards, we perform the processes of preparing and implementing these projects. You know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the application of the Construction Act, I'm talking about issues of solving the so-called property-legal relations, the application of the Law on Restitution in Practice, which in the way they are applied today, appear with one serious restriction and in planning, and afterwards in the realisation of projects. As long as we leave time, by law, for these things to be solved in practice, it always takes a lot more time and then a small part of the project is holding back from much greater importance. We will discuss this in the coming days when concrete projects are on the agenda in parliament. I wouldn't go into other details. I just want to answer some questions about the wider picture. First, this is an investment project under very favourable conditions, which means it has a very high degree of so-called. a grant of an element or a gift in itself. So, if this were translated into equivalent terms of commercial loans, it would turn out, so if you discounted the payment rate of this project at the interest rate that we have on commercial loans, you would get to pay back about 60 euro cents for every euro we take in this loan. Therefore, here is around 10m euros in cost, and five million is a gift. In addition, the project draws another gift of one million and 300m euros to finance technical assistance from consultants and everything else from grenades. So, all these consultants who will appear and give advice, and hopefully in the future, with the active participation of our specialised organisations, NGOs and others, will be free of charge, from Serbia's point of view, to provide these services. Finally, one part that's mentioned here, which is very significant. All projects of this type and all projects in the world have one part called their own participation, as their own participation in a personal loan, as well as here. Therefore, 10% of the value in dinars is assumed to be the participation of local self-governments to implement projects covered by the idea part of this project on energy efficiency. In other words, if a school is expected, and there will be plenty of schools, based on the parameters established by the previous energy efficiency funding project, we will have a full list of already checked projects that have been partially implemented in the energy efficiency project funded by the World Bank. This is a continuation of the process. So we have a huge list of projects that didn't get into that first choice. They're on the list now and therefore, although it may seem extremely simple, I can list the things that are done here. It's about de facto boiler room remonting, changing windows, changing insulation, everything else, I hope, with respect to our and international standards in materials that will be similar to schools, public rooms, for the health of our students. So we're assuming all that. Normally and with you, I will try to establish such a system of control, procurement and realization of these projects that will not, not only will it not endanger health, but it will improve the quality of the environment in which they learn and work. There's a whole list. Who cares I can show that list. These are very precise, internationally tested and already implemented in large part, this is just a continuation of the idea. Secondly, the results of this work will be the basis, as a pilot, to apply it to our funds and other projects. Our goal is for all schools to be innovative during a certain period of time, all hospitals, all public rooms, so that they meet our and international standards in the efficiency of energy consumption in quality and environment for the lives and work of the people who are there. As for the note of concrete projects, I'd end up here. I want, please, only for extra time to answer these questions regarding the general economic situation and the relationship. First one note, this as an investment project does not go into debt with this ratification, but enters the debt only when the funds are withdrawn and used. So that's the project funding that's going to be added to the debt you're asking around and about which I'm going to tell you the figures now. Therefore, this will stand as an opportunity to withdraw funds without additional parliamentary approval, but will appear on the Public Debt Administration page only when the funds are realised. The state of public debt on today's 2,929 billion dinars, calculated by course on today's day. The balance of debt on December 31st, 2012, that's what you said, right... (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: How many euros is it? ) No, no, this was a dinar – two, apply the current course of the euro, the situation in today's euro was, I guess, recalculated to today's course of 23 comas... How long was it? Just a second, there were 23 comas, I guess, eight million euros, or 73.8% of the social product at current prices. So this is how it is, but in order for people to be properly informed, the change in debt, let's say, from December 31st last year to today -- in dollars that haven't changed by $8,700,000, in dinars has grown from 588.6 billion dinars to 600 million dinars. So, by a little less than 12 billion dinars, the dinar debt increased in euros by 100m euros. In doing so, since we have a surplus in the budget, the difference went to improve fiscal liquidity by the end of March, when we pay off the dues. So that's where we have a billion and a half euros recalculated fiscal liquidity. All data is available on the Public Debt Administration website. So our debt, like the logical sum of debt plus the increase in liquidity, is what you borrowed but you didn't spend, because you borrow the moment when the interest is highest, when it's the hottest, and you return the moment when it comes, so we have a detailed plan when a particular paper comes. We plan to have enough liquidity to get it back. In other words, our debt in dollars has not been increased at all since 1 January of this year, the euro debt has been increased by 100m euros, but by the end of March it will be returned to the level at which it was and because we will return some of the commitments that are due by the end of the next 15 days. The end of the first quarter is usually the time in the world when commitments are made. The biggest obligations are at the end of every quarter of the world, because that's usually how commitment is planned. In all this very important note, from the point of view of the effect on the budget, and that is very important for all MPs and the public, absolutely zero because we have nine hundred and a few million dollars and dollars in fiscal liquidity, in dollars, which is a natural benchmark, a natural protection from this increase in course, and we won't have to sell dinars and buy dollars to serve debt in dollars for the next two to three years. Therefore, although the paper seems to have increased the value of our debt relative to the social product, in real payments, Serbia will not have to go out to market and buy a dollar by 108 or how many dinars, but it has in its liquidity nine hundred and some million dollars of liquidity currently being used to serve, to pay interest and service the debt. If we're still in debt on very favourable terms, which would be a good strategy, or we're going to hedge future dollar debt, or we're going to hold on to enough liquidity so we can settle our obligations. So the best way to do this is to make a special law on how to optimise the debt and make a deal or we pay the cost of hedge and then you don't say that we increase the cost of borrowing, so we pay the 1.5% more, but that we don't have a headache about changing course or balance income and expenditure on the currency key. For us, it's crucial in euros and dollars, and to say it like a man does, if he needs food, then he plants a little potatoes and makes a little bit for the market. So when something changes on the market, it doesn't hit him. We're in a situation where the course doesn't hit us from the point of view of the budget. We won't have an increase in that item in the 130-billion-dollar budget because we have money in the corresponding currency to pay and service it all. That's very important. In the end, I think it's crucial next. I have to tell you the numbers. Apart from our expectations, and of course with your note that some of these savings are not good after we haven't realised the investment, on today the deficit situation is next we have a 5.9 billion cumulative surplus from January 1st to yesterday. We believed on March 1st that it would be a worse situation, it's better. I admit, part of it is the surplus, and the result of the slower we spend money, the two things, the realisation of projects and our participation in these projects, and other, very important, and keep that in mind in the next debate, the money spent for expropriation is far below what was planned in the budget. So we're not able to secure the realisation of investment projects, and we have to do something to ensure that. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Why don't you pay the farmers? We pay for everything. In agriculture, it is a good issue that the Agricultural Payments Authority has moved from Capca to Belgrade and we are solving human resources problems. We've got security, we're dealing with personnel problems because in the old systems, it takes about 250 and some people to serve it. We'll probably have to make a change of laws, pay in a simpler and more efficient way. The older way of paying, that people come to the counters asking to hire a large number of people to make those payments. We're financially willing to respect it, but because of the change of venue, we have organisational problems to solve. Good question, thank you, we'll settle this soon enough. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Don't say it's a surplus when you haven't paid. That's a very small sum. I agree with you, but it's already booked and it's a very small sum. That's not even close to the amount of surplus I'm talking about. Finally, let me say one thing how solid this surplus is. I will only list two numbers, VAT as a measure of economic activity and a measure of tax discipline from the beginning of January to today, and in March it increased by 10%, 30.7 billion compared to 27.5 billion in the same period last year. Accizes are 5.1 billion compared to 4.1 since last year. That's 20% more. Thus, these are permanent from month to month stable results that show that we are on the right track. Am I sure we'll make it? Of course not. There are many more risks waiting for us. Many of the dangers that await us, but we are on a good path and we are getting a better result than last year in all the instruments, in all the elements, and I expect that we will get a good result at the end of the quarter, which will be measured in the passing time of the review programme in May of the month that will apply to the first quarter. I also expect that we will continue this way in the next quarter by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24022	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24023	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, of course, the most important in this set of laws is the first law or the proposal for a law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. What is good, and what you have announced, Mr Minister, is that there are several solid, good amendments to be considered, whose acceptance should be considered, and I am primarily referring to amendments to Article 3 where the Government is obliged to establish, at least once or twice a year, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance's Office, that the list of designated persons is justified, but the increase in criminal policy has also been increased through some amendments and the amount of penalties has been increased. However, what is for me and what is very interesting and acceptable and affirmative and good in this bill because this bill sublimates and drives the work of several ministries. In order for this law to be consumed in the right sense, and there is no doubt that it will be consumed in the right sense and applied, it also needs to be hired by the finance minister, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the BIA. The most important message of this bill that we will adopt by the end of the week, because for its adoption, you have the support of SNS Mr Vujovic, because Serbia wants not only verbally but also through legal solutions to the ranks of the first regulated states that send a clear message that they do not want any vision or encouragement, nor any help, nor any support to people who are engaged individually or organised in terrorism. We gave such a symbol and such a sign through one adoption of the law a few months ago, when we said that citizens of the Republic of Serbia who chose to take arms on battlefields and hotspots around the world, did some bad deeds that they had no protection in Serbia, but that such acts, or crimes, had to be answered, whether those wars were in Syria, Iraq or those wars in Ukraine. For us, it wakes up some memories from these areas of ours that are still sadder and Serbia is defined for peace. It is determined to be a factor of stability in the Balkans, in this part of Europe, but also to be in line with organised states, regulated world states that will severely punish such things. As for the second draft of the law, on amendments and amendments to the Customs Act, I will be very pleased to thank the colleagues who supported this law in the previous part of the session, and I will give you the information and I will try to animate other colleagues and colleagues to vote for this bill, because what the Customs Administration shows and the results it showed in 2014, the results that are comparable to all previous years, really deserve special attention, deserve special attention, and I deserve congratulations, and this way, on behalf of the SNS Group, I give them all the congratulations. Serbia's budget depends largely on how the customs service works, because a large part of the budget, slightly less than 46%, exactly 45.71% stems from the fees. In this context, the good news is that in 2014, the tax collection was by 11.7% higher than it was in 2013, and that this result did not result from import growth, but from better collection and from export growth from the Republic of Serbia. 397 billion 661 million 558 000 045 dinars have been charged, and this fully fulfils the task set before the customs service by the Budget Law. Over 40 billion dinars or 41 billion 645 million 412 thousand 571 dinars were paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget more than in 2013, which was converted into euro -- higher customs revenue for some 350m euros compared to 2013 and it really deserves both support and praise to the Customs Administration. The fight against smuggling has also shown enviable results, and it is not only a sign and support of the Customs Administration, it is a support for the interior ministry, which is indeed making remarkable results on this issue. During 2014, eight times more cut tobacco was seized than in 2013, and over six tonnes of this excise product. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: The theme. ) Mr. Chairman, I ask you that those who do not want to listen to the good results of their country, those who hate their country for political reasons, those who put their fingers in the ears when we do not have to listen to good results, may be bored, accept it, but do not violate the Rules of Procedure, these people have free halls and other rooms in the National Assembly and are free to go from here if they do not want to listen to what the results are, but you do not have to expose all the MPs to that amount of hatred they show not only to political opponents, but also to the whole Republic of Serbia. But they'll get their turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24024	My colleague Babić, don't say that, I am fully convinced that there is no hatred but only a question – if they had cared so much about public finances by 2012, they would not have had these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24025	This is about the Customs Administration, and we're changing the Customs Act, and I'm going to remind you and the gentleman who throws it away. The result was doubled in the seizure of cigarettes because seven million pieces were seized during 2014. The Customs Service seized 1.3 tonnes of narcotics in 2014. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: The theme. ) Compares for, in the last 13 years, for those who say – the subject were done: they averaged about 250 kg of drugs per year, and this year the Customs Administration seized 1.3 tonnes or 1,300 kg, so it can be said that the results for less than a year are five times better than those who do not want to hear these results. It wasn't a topic of electricity, Mr. Chairman, nor the price of electricity, but then the gentleman who talked about the price of electricity couldn't throw himself away. But here I will take the opportunity and I will remind the gentleman, but also all citizens of the Republic of Serbia - 15 April 2001, the price of electricity in Serbia was up by 36.9%, on 1 June 2001 40%, 9 October 2001, 15%, 1 July 2002, 50%, and 1 July, so 15%, and 15 May 2007, then the gentleman who voted in favour of that increase in electricity, 15%, and voted on 1 July 2005 by 9.5%, and 1 April, then no "and in either," in 2006 15% and 15 May 2007, then the gentleman who voted for that increase in electricity, so he voted again on 1 March 2008 by 7.6% in Serbia, and voted on 1 August 2008 by 8.4% in the power increase, so he voted on 1 March 2010 by 10% in the power increase in electricity, so he voted again on 1 April, and on 1 April, respectively, in the Republic of Serbia, 15% in the Republic of Serbia. Cumulatively, a gentleman who throws away, who is so concerned about what the government of the Republic of Serbia will do with the price of electricity, voted and supported the increase in electricity cumulatively over 600 per cent. And imagine now that he is concerned and reads Mr Vujovic's thoughts about whether and how it will be and what it will be, and criticises in advance. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear and has sent a clear signal whether, when and how much power the power rises, we will see and the government will make such a decision. But those of you who, with a first-april joke to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by 10 years, have increased the price of electricity by 600% are the last ones who can talk about it and take care of the citizens of Serbia. As you were concerned, that's how you showed, so you increased the electricity price by 600% by 10 years. Someone said, Mr. Minister, that you'll be remembered for I don't know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24026	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24027	... You will be, and I end up being remembered, Mr. Minister, as well as the rest of Alexander Vukic's cabinet, being known for the cure of public finances that those who earn get sick and are seriously ill. You will be known, Mr Vujovicu, for an agreement with the IMF that those, who smile and earn, have driven out of Serbia so that the budget can only be spent in the pre-election campaign and as it is responsible for their political party. You will be remembered, Mr. Minister, by the fact that no one has had 20 years to cheer the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that our budget for these two and a half, is almost three months in surplus and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-18-0.u24028	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law from 1 to 4th item of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
