ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26772	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26773	Thank you, Your Honor. I asked a parliamentary question on the 6-year-olds since the case of unauthorized incursion, armed ambush and attempted murder of SDA Sandzak and then Prime Minister Dr Sulejman Ugljanin was not resolved. Among other things, I also referred to Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Dr Ugljanin himself, as minister, to the government's meetings, asking for an official response on this case, which the police minister then told him that he has been trying for two years, but has not been able to get an official response from the service. Instead of answering the parliamentary question, I received one piece of paper a few days ago from the police minister who addressed it as a notice in which he ignored all the questions I asked and provided me with parts of some alleged police report, which was apparently written with the intention of bringing confusion after six years of silence and concealing the details of this crime, to hide the perpetrators, the employers and their assistants who apparently, judging by this report, are also in the police but also in other state authorities. I didn't ask the police minister to explain to me and justify the unauthorized intrusion of armed bandits into our party's official premises. I've asked clear questions and asked for answers as to who are these unauthorized and armed persons in the official premises of the SDA Sandzak? Who are the faces that threw heavy concrete jars and tables at the heads of the SDA Sandzak leadership? Who shot the president of the SDA Sandzak and then the Minister of Government, Dr Suleiman Ugljanin? What was the city council member Muric looking for in our rooms that night? What role does the mayor then play in all of this, what role does the Chief of the Interior and his deputy in Novi Pazar play in all of this? What is the role of then-President of the District Court and Prosecutor in Novi Pazar, and who are the people from Belgrade with whom they say were constantly on the phone? These are simple questions. I'm looking for simple answers. In a notice signed by Minister Stefanovic, events within our party's official premises are not mentioned at all, and it is not even determined that there were shots, but are only said to have been found several shell casings. Wouldn't it be bad for Minister Stefanovic to tell us that those shells came here? Obviously, this is about a malicious and very dangerous replacement of the thesis, because this police report does not mention attacks and shootings against the president and the leadership of the SDA Sandzak, nor does a single name of the arrested people, the arrested perpetrators, or even the initials of the people found to have been shot. Does anyone use Minister Stefanovic to legalize this crime, I don't know. I wonder what and who he protects, call the report? It is clear from all of this that this is a well-designed and organized crime and that there is an unequivocally unequivocally between perpetrators, employers and individual state bodies. For this reason, I again ask that the Office of Organized Crime be urgently committed to solving this crime, and I call on the competent state authorities to protect the witnesses, because they are obviously and unequivocally threatened. If this practice continues to be ignored and obstructed by the state authorities, we will be forced to address for help both international organisations and institutions, because this problem exceeds our opportunities and poses a clear threat to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26774	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26775	Dear Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the Republic of Serbia has a constitutional and legal obligation to improve relations with its citizens and Serbs abroad, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, and I am interested in when it will be at the government of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, adopted an action plan to implement a conservation strategy and strengthen the relations of the country of origin and diaspora, both the country of origin and Serbs in the region? Given that this document was adopted by the Serbian government in 2011, but since there is no other accompanying, very important document of the action plan, the strategy cannot be realised either, so it is inapplicable and not implemented. It is very important for the strategy to be applied, to achieve the objectives defined in this document, and to achieve this, in addition, it is necessary to appoint a director of the Diaspora and Serbs Directorate in the region as part of the Foreign Affairs Ministry. Yesterday was the year since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but in the past 365 days, unfortunately, the head of this administration has not yet been appointed, which is why it does not work full capacity. Also, given that the Diaspora and Serbs Act was brought to the region in 2010 and provided for the existence of the Diaspora Parliament and Serbs in the region, which should meet once a year, due to well-known problems, created by holding elections and establishing a new government, unfortunately in the past two years, the Diaspora Assembly and Serbs in the region have not met, most likely that they will not meet in June of this year, I am interested - what will be done in this matter since the term of office of members of this Assembly has expired? Will new elections be held? Who on behalf of the Diaspora Authority, or the Foreign Ministry, is going to do this job? Also, I am looking for an answer, and why is the Diaspora and Serb law in the region not applied to the provisions envisioning the work of the Council for Serbs in the region chaired by the President of the Republic and which, under this law, should meet at least once every three months, but unfortunately not meet? In the past, here, almost two years only twice this council has met and therefore there are major problems in the relations of the country of origin with our countrymen, especially in eight countries of the region, but it has significant implications for our eviction, with the entire diaspora, and it is extremely numerous, significant for our country. Over four million of our citizens and countrymen live outside the Republic of Serbia. They send over three billion euros to this country every year. Their participation in investment, in Serbia's privatisation, is also important and we need to apply our relationship to them. These relationships have to be raised to a higher level, they have to be more content, more quality. So, once again, I am interested in, above all, when will the director of the Diaspora and Serbs Directorate be appointed in the region within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to access all these very significant state and national affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26776	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26777	President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, my question is to step forward, the hooligans come out at the previous match between Partizan and Red Star. The issue was addressed to Prime Minister Vukic, Police Minister, Dr Stefanovic and Minister of Justice, Mr Selakovic. So, as far as the hooligans are concerned, it concerns the events of last Saturday when the Partizan and Red Star hooligans again showed their face, and the state showed its infirmity. It wasn't a derby, it was a parade of violence and 35 officers were injured at that parade of violence. There, as we could see from the footage, from the photos from those riots, were also little children who were threatened by the savage fans, to call them that, although they were actually hooligans. Fans, or hooligans, are not just savages in stadiums, but are savages and occupying certain parts of the town in Novi Sad, Belgrade, divided the quarter. There, of course, they terrorize the citizens, the children, the youth and the powerless, and the state does not oppose them. I'm asking the Prime Minister why the Ministers won't, can't or don't know they're up against the hooligans. Why are you looking, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Selakovic, Dr. Stefanovic, why are you looking through the fingers of the hooligans? And that you have the courage to show it. So it's not a question of courage. You had the courage to cut your salaries to educators, to cut your salaries to health workers, to cut your salaries to cops who were hooligans last week, to attack last weekend with various means. You had the courage, gentlemen, when you cut pensions to the pensioners, and you don't have the courage or you won't, I ask the government, to apply the law regarding punishment, to bring in the justice of the hooligans, who are becoming a growing social danger, but probably not by accident? In fact, it is not only the problem in hooligans, the problem is in sports clubs which are the site of state financial power, where representatives of political parties are sitting and, in all likelihood, these sports clubs, including hooligans, have a certain function and have a certain social role. Probably the state does not apply the law and ask the government – is it true, because they count that they should not be resented by the hooligans, but should perhaps use them at a given time, which is not the first time, which would not be the first time to do so. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia plan to apply the law when it comes to hooligans or as the Prime Minister said, Mr. Vukic - he does not see how to resolve the question in sports clubs? Is that a definitive statement by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister? On the other hand, on Thursday, I will ask two parliamentary questions when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is here, and as to whether the Republic of Serbia will send assistance to Nepal and another issue I will refer to regarding whether the state will shut down Radio Serbia, the former Radio Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26778	Time. Thank you. The word is from MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26779	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, what has confused the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade somewhere is the signing of an investment contract and a project that will be the momentum of the Serbian economy, called "Belgrade on Water". It was Sunday, April 26th, and what first of all confused all those who really believed with this ruling majority that something from this job would be, hoping possibly for some jobs, are statements by those who lead this country, lead this city, and together with you manage Serbia's future. What is important is that I here keep the Serbian prime minister's statement that "Belgrade on Water" will be built within four years. Then we were confused by the Belgrade mayor's statement that "Belgrade on the Water" would be built shortly afterwards in ten years. Our question is – how is it possible that the government signed a contract to build "Beograd na Voda", on this investment, and said that this job would be completed within 30 years? So the question arises whether the prime minister, does the mayor of Belgrade have any idea what they're talking about as the ruling majority or whether it's completely falsified facts, untrue that confuse citizens completely and give some completely false hope when it comes to the "Belgrade on Water" project, or maybe the conditions changed before just signing this contract, which is an additional problem? When it comes to contract details, we want to ask and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia whether it will ensure that the full text of the contract is made available to the public, since it is a project of national importance? What are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, what are the obligations of the city of Belgrade citizens to know? The prime minister said that the contract would be made available to the public even though it was not at its signing, which only speaks about how much he personally believes in this project, that this contract will be made available to the public as soon as the Competition Protection Commission gives consent to such a thing. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Why wasn't he present? Let's make it happen to you that he wasn't present for. How can you not be ashamed? ) The Competition Protection Commission, Mr. Granny, even though you're yelling, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26780	I ask the messengers not to receive each other, please. Please, Ambassador Granny, please let him go. Please, MP, don't throw it away, we'll give the word to the next one. May I have your attention for asking a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26781	If we can just get the time back. The Competition Protection Commission, which is why it should give any consent when there is no competition here. According to "Tanjuga", if they are quoted as true, Eagle Hills will provide only 300m euros under this contract and lend Serbia another 150m euros. What happened here with the promised 3.5 billion euros, both the Serbian prime minister and the ruling majority here, the assembly majority in this house claimed that this was the money provided for one project that will be the development project of the Republic of Serbia? What happened to 3.5 billion euros? That's the question we're asking today, and we want to hear the answer. What happened to building land, which by who knows what legal procedure the Republic of Serbia took to the Belgrade and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and handed over to the investor, Al Bar, Eagle Hills, who invests only 300m euros and 150m euros lends to the Republic of Serbia? It is less than 3.5 billion euros here, Mr Babic and Serbian Prime Minister and many others promised citizens Belgrade and Serbia. A total of 1,800,000 square meters are scheduled to be built. When it's divided by a 30-year deadline, we get an amazing 60,000 squares a year. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia – according to statistical data, without any investment every year, close to one million square meters, business or residential space is built...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26782	Time, I gave 10 seconds. I gave you those 10 seconds just to tell me who this question was asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26783	The Government of the Republic of Serbia, and can I...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26784	To whom, exactly, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26785	Alexander Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26786	Okay, but you can't talk more than ten seconds I took.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26787	You took me a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26788	Please don't. The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26789	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. It is amazing what happens when we talk about party ratings and when we talk about the very support of the project "Belgrade on Water". The more colleagues who are just coming out of the O.R., this topic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26790	Don't ask a replica, just a question. Let a colleague out of the O.R. come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26791	A colleague came out. The more the "Belgrade on Water" project criticises, the more citizens support the project, because they really see who is criticising it and then they don't know what it is. On the other hand, we saw from the party how much support they have and how many people are even against the "Belgrade on Water" project when they managed to raise 4,000 people from all over Serbia who were at the rally. When we talk about Belgrade, since things are brought out here that are not supported by facts, I'm sorry, and who left a 20.5% deficit in Belgrade? I'm asking a question, that's one of the questions. On the other hand, on the eve of the Serbian government's anniversary, I would like to say that today Serbia is more economically healthy than it was in the period until 2012, the fight against the gray economy, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the savings in the state sector, the deficit is now halved in our country, which is a great success, unlike those who only knew that they were raising the deficit in our country, and that there was no economic justification, that there were no certain results for either the state or the citizens of Serbia. Also, VAT has been increased, excise collection, which therefore brings funds to our country's budget, and we want to help develop decentralisedly as an entire country and try in every way possible to create new jobs. Today, those who have led state enterprises to the brink of destruction are asking questions. It's one of the questions, who brought them in, what way and who are all the people who will answer for it? Today, public enterprises in the reconstruction phase, i.e. restructuring and a healthy and fair privatisation, will finally get most of these companies a happy epilogue where we will keep people at work, such as the Smederjev Ironworks, where we will foster even greater development and finally the state will have some dinar in its budget, not just losses. This policy, which is primarily based on responsibility, on discipline, on one rational spending, will certainly lead to the fact that by the end of the year most likely from healthy economic sources, we raise salaries and pensions for a certain level, which will be based on economic development, rather than on the loans they took before us, and that the citizens saw nothing of it except fairy tales, demagogues and political marketing. It was DS policy, and your citizens did. On the other hand, when we talk about infrastructure projects, so "Belgrade on Water" is a chance for Serbia, a chance that will hire our people, encourage our construction industry, change the image of our capital and our country in the world, and that is our interest. If you disagree with that interest, it is clear to me, because you have never agreed in the history of your existence with the interests of Serbian citizens. That's where we're different, and I'm glad about it, and I don't mind. When we talk about highways and construction, gentlemen, in 2012, you built only 12 kilometers of highway, in 2014 65 kilometers, amazingly, just five times more. That's where we're different from our duty, our work, our responsibility, and I really don't want to talk about honesty. I have one question first of all for the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, how is it possible that someone whose account has been blocked makes one rally, I don't want to say how many people were at that rally, because it's more about the party that organized it, but how is it possible that someone who's blocked the account to organize a rally and how have these funds been found to pay, that's the first question? The second question, if I have already spoken here in these five minutes, which is really a modest moment for everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in a year, modestly so that I can present all the projects we have started, the question is – what has the Prime Minister of the District Government Mr. Boyin Pajtic done in the last year? If he didn't do anything in the District Government, I'm asking him what he did in the shadow government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26792	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26793	He may have achieved greater results there, but unfortunately, the impression is completely objective, not subjective, although I am from the SNS, that neither in the post-Ukrainian government where citizens chose him, nor in this shadow government did anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26794	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic, Miroslav Markicevic, Sinisa Maksimovic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Employment and Safety in the event of non-employment pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Aleksandar Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Ljiljana Juver, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Vladimir Pesic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, Zoran Martinović, Director of the National Employment Service, Tatjana Prijic, Head of the Group for the Promotion of the Protection of Persons with Disabilities in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, and Jelena Kotevic, Head of the Standard Jobs Group at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law, as well as the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as incomplete amendments to which a new member of the 16a was added after article 16, adding a new member of 19a, which was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Blaže Bradić. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26795	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, guest from the ministry, Article 1. The proposal to amend this law speaks of a change in the composition of the Management Board of the National Employment Service. We listened in the principle debate countless times as the number of board members will be reduced by one place of unseen savings and rationalisation. So, one spot on the board of directors that doesn't have to be paid, and if paid, it should be paid, I think, 30, 40 or 50 grand, I don't know what that fee is for board members. So we're going to save at the level of 400,000 dinars a year and we're changing one law and it cost more than just sitting here and listening to 70 times that something is going to be saved from that savings that this is going to make. But there's one other thing going on. That board of directors like he is now suggested that it doesn't seem to make sense. There's no point in sitting seven people and paying as much as if it's decided by the majority appointed by the government. Then you have to sit one or none. I need the minister directly to say what needs to be said and how money should be spent. The point of the Management Board, as it was, where there were four Prime Ministers and four representatives of the Social-Economic Council, is that those people, all the employees in Serbia who separate from their salary, gross wages, 1.5% of me feel that they stand out for unemployment insurance, have their own representatives who decide how their money is spent. We listened here to the government decide because the government gives money to the National Service. They don't give up government, they give up employees. Every employee gives out his salary and the government has nothing to interfere with. It shouldn't be any government representatives, not that they have a majority and that majority decide everything. The minister here said in a principle debate on this member – we did not prepare well, because if we did, we would know that it is a good practice to name two union presidents and one employer representative in front of the Social-Economic Council in three representatives. We do not know what practice he is talking about, since so far in the law has been written – of the four representatives of the Social-Economic Council two propose the president of the union and two representatives of the employers. Now there are three that are proposed by the Social-Economic Council. I don't know what good practice the minister is calling for, because she didn't exist until now in law. Maybe he knows something we don't. So our concern is that now there will be a majorised involvement of employers' representatives and this relationship that it will not be 2:1 in favour of the union, but 2:1 in favour of employers. That's why we've suggested that Article 1 be amended and complemented by this law deleted. We believe that the solution that has existed so far is better. If rationalization is to be carried out, then cancel all compensations to all members of the Management Board, not only these services, but all boards of directors. In Serbia, 30,000 people sit on some kind of board of directors. So how much money can you save? Why would we have to do anything? It would if we had to save. We agree that we should save. In the end, Minister, you also said here to explain how 2% increase in pension fund rates leads to 8% increase in mass. Let me explain, Minister. It's called proportion. That's what elementary school kids learn. When you raise from 24% to 26% separation by something, then that mass increases by 8.33%. There, Minister, that 8%, of whom you boast here, is more paid into the Pension Insurance Fund. It's been paid because you've changed, I don't know when it was, July month, the rate that stands out. She was 24% for the first three months of this year, and now she's 26%. There's your 8% increase, as 2% rises to 8%. It's called proportion and it's taught in elementary school if kids go to school because my teachers don't strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26796	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26797	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I suggest not to accept this amendment, amendment to Article 1 of this law, which reads - is deleted. Frankly, I am a little surprised by the appearance of the previous speaker, as I am amazed by the practice of his parliamentary group that we have received such an amendment, an amendment that reads – it is deleted, since it has been something that has so far been a feature of some other parliamentary groups. It is unacceptable for me to delete this Article 1 for all of those reasons which are stated in the reasons proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the form of an opinion. The only thing I can do is point out some key moments and some key arguments in the reasoning the government has made. The draft law therefore lays down the composition of the Management Board, as well as the appointment and resolution of the President and members of the Management Board. The number of board members from the current nine to seven has been reduced. I don't see places of criticism for such a thing, and I want to invite you to agree on your party organs, as well as the parliamentary group. Are you in favour of austerity measures or against austerity measures? You're criticizing us not to implement austerity measures, and when we suggest something concrete, the kind of rationalization and the kind of savings, you're criticizing us again. So I'm asking you to make a deal. So, three members proposed the Social Economic Council and four members proposed by the minister responsible for employment activities, including the president. We note that the way members are appointed, i.e. the structure of the Management Board, have remained fundamentally unchanged in relation to the existing legal solution, except that I repeat, the number of members has been reduced. When taking into account the above argument, I believe that it is clear to everyone that there is no place to delete this member and that this member should remain unchanged in relation to the proposed text. I hope we refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26798	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26799	For SNS, this amendment is not acceptable and I will try in the next few minutes and explain why. The amendment promoter called for mathematics taught in elementary school. I agree that proportions are learned and can be direct and reverse proportions. However, proof of how much the amendment promoter does not know about mathematics is one mathematical action that is much simpler than proportions, which is seizing. However, proof of how much the amendment promoter does not know about mathematics is one mathematical action that is much simpler than proportions, which is seizing. Because, you know, when out of nine board members, as far as it's been, you subtract seven, as far as the biller has prescribed and predicted, nine minus seven is not one. It is not in one member of the Management Board, but in two members of the Management Board. I believe it wasn't the lapus of the amendment promoter, it was one very bad need for certain things to be trivialized. On the other hand, mathematics is an exact science, so when we see that two members of the board of directors receive an average salary in Serbia for a year, there is so much compensation, I would not bid, as the amendment promoter bids 30, 40, 50,000 dinars, but I have asked the service and received that these two board members, who, moreover, will not be, according to this bill, and I see that it bothers someone, will not receive, will not carry home 1,128,000 dinars. A million and 128 thousand dinars is little for one who has too many. The citizens of Serbia do not have too much, the budget is not too much, none of us who will refuse this amendment, none in the government, which also suggested that the amendment be rejected, is too much to say that 10,000 euros can be distributed just like that. Those 10,000 euros are little for those who have too much, who can boast, who have gotten used to the cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia honoring their political alike, members of their party. On the other hand, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that in the last meeting, for those who were not members of parliament, I would remind you that the Law on Public Enterprises, this majority of the assembly, the majority made up of SNS, have limited the number of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises. Until the 2013 Law, that number was disproved, seven, nine, 15, as it corresponded to whom and how it wanted to foster his party colleagues and co-workers. No desire or will existed for these matters to be settled, until the Law on Public Enterprises, which defined that there was a Supervisory Board, that this Supervisory Committee for Public Enterprises, which formed units of local self-government, could have three members, and for public enterprises established by the Republic, or an autonomous province, that number is five. So what do we do with those savings? So what about an amendment that did not come to mind, except to increase that number, that in this way it draws the exhausted budget of the Republic of Serbia or the budgets of local self-government? So now, guided by the boast of 2012 that they showed, they say: “You are reducing only one member, or two members, so what is this saving you a million and 128 thousand dinars? What's your savings of 10,000 euros? “ Get out on the street and tell it to the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Belgrade who pass by here in front of the House of the National Assembly. Say, we spend your 10,000 euros on party colleagues, we honor them, we honor them with functions, we honor them with 10,000 euros a year. What's that? So let's see how these people react. Will he support what the Government has proposed, to reduce, to save, or will he support that haughtiness that was so enjoyed in our society by 2012, when you could do it? For all of these reasons that I have stated, because of the domestic relationship that the SNS shows, by limiting the number of people in public enterprises, on the boards of public companies. I would remind you that until the 2013 Law, public enterprises, whether municipal or republican, had this kind of two-cameral governance and control, and boards of directors, are now only supervisory committees that have a limited number of people sitting in them. Now you, who have never thought of such things, will say: little is what you are saving, it is a trumpet. Maybe it's a rot for you. Maybe it's a rot for that kind of political tycoon you made while you ran Serbia. For us, for the responsible government, for the responsible majority of the assembly, fighting over every dinar, because this dinar is not owned by our own, but owned by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26800	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Mr. Babic has already taken a piece of my math. Therefore, there were not eight members of the Management Board, but nine, so that the amendment's proposer was also wrong in the number of board members who had been on the Board of Directors of the National Employment Service so far. I must say, savings from two members are not important unless other data is taken. This assembly has reduced the number of members of the Management Board and the Management Board of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, from 21 to seven. The Board of Supervisors, I think, no longer exists. Also, the number of members of the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund has been reduced, from 21 to seven. The number of members of the Supervisory Board in the Republic Health Insurance Fund has also been reduced. So, those savings, as I understand it, were only in the Republic Health Insurance Fund over 100,000 euros, savings on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Management Board were also over 100,000 euros. For that 200,000 euros, you can buy, say, a hundred cows. So, every year, instead of going into the pockets of board members, you could give the farmers a hundred cows. Each one gives 2,000 euros, which in milk, which means that they produce, instead of various losses, about 200,000 euros a year, in milk, in meat. So those savings should be transferred to the production section. On the spending side, money should be transferred to income. Therefore, as a member of one of the boards of directors, I welcome the government's intensities to reduce the number of board members in all bodies and bodies, in all boards of directors. I'd just like to say that when we reduced the number of members of the board of directors at the RFO, from 21 to seven, we reduced the number of farmers from two to one. There was then an unprecedented campaign against farmers, only because they were not a doctor, although they in the meetings of the former regime prior to this last board of directors had two farmers, had 21 members, then led a campaign against the new government because they reduced it to seven from 21 members. So there's a campaign going on against those who are saving. In the end, I have to say that our people rightly say that saving is the best money. That's why I think this amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26802	The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26803	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have the custom of closely following these amendments to the opposition because I think there's a lot of positive things in them to be found. Why? Because it's much easier for them to find better solutions when they get a draft bill because they don't need to do creative work. As part of this amendment, I want to say two things. One thing is, with us very often, the boards of directors and supervisors approach themselves from the point of view – it does not have to be paid. You know how, the role of the board of directors is very large, they fall under every firm's top management and their task is to run the firm, run it, so the word itself says. The fact that, in practice, we have not been put in place but rather the opposite that the board of directors make up people who only raise their hands and vote some of the decisions we see in many cases are negative by the system and result in everyone being able to be a member of the board of directors or supervisory board and to receive some compensation for it. In my opinion, board members and supervisory boards should be people who are professional, who are understood to be in the business of the company where they are on the board of directors and must be compensated for the job. Let me say, personally, I'm not a member of any board of directors or board of directors, I wasn't, nor am I running for one of those places, but they don't just have the privilege of being board members and of paying for this job that they do, but they also have the responsibility. There will come a time when many board members will have to answer for the decisions they have voted on. That's why I suggest to our opposition colleagues that they think this through, and that's true for those of us who are in a position to think carefully about what they were doing at the time when they were in power, when they had the opportunity to handle it, and that's the same thing for us to propose good laws and good solutions, so that they wouldn't be ashamed of what we proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26804	Mr Mirjana Djokovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26805	I would just like to say that I will join my colleagues in the coalition majority and that I advocate the rejection of this amendment for the simple reason that last time we held a principle debate, I heard very inconclusive proposals, and even if it were destroyed, that the National Service should not exist on our country's territory. If we take it and do some serious analysis, we'll see that almost no one has done it from countries in the environment and almost nowhere in the world. There's always a state agency that deals seriously with this business. For the simple reason I speak because the National Service is a very dynamic, very modern public service whose dedicated employees are at a very impressive level. In order for these employees to do their job, to have a proper realization when they work that job, someone really has to worry about it. Then let's go back a little while when we chose board members, it was certain that we respected some criteria that must be respected. Here, for example. I am a member of the local council in the local self-government of the town of Cačka and it is not by chance because I was engaged in employment, specifically direct mediation. I believe that everyone, as counterpart Stojmirovic said, means who is involved and responsible when taking part in a board of directors must know the job is working and I think that those times have passed when someone could passively sit on that board, take a fee and absolutely have no effect in their work. I personally believe that the job of the National Service is a serious job, there are very serious people, struggling to reach the level of services from the countries in the environment and from EU countries through their corporate plans. So I ask you to be really complicated when this amendment is to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26806	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26807	Dear Presidents with Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow MPs have already said the basic reasons why they do not wish to support this amendment. Let me just say a few sentences. I cannot understand why the proposal is really against the principles of nationalisation, against the principles of economic stabilisation, against the principles of state administration reform and the modernisation of Serbia, which we all ultimately voted for in the election of both these governments and the adoption of exposés, the principles of saving as a universal principle of human beings and against reforms. I think the government's argument is deeply rational, reasonable and in line with the reforms that this government is conducting, because, as colleagues and colleagues of the SNS have said, they will indeed reject this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26808	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26809	Thank you. I would ask for a replica, but I believe that you would conclude that I have no basis, so I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Yes, the fee is 46,000 dinars for a board member, here, Mr. Martinovic, who is here in the O.R., stands on the site to receive 46,000 dinars in addition to the salary of 140,000 dinars for work on the board of directors. Right? There's no big mystery, and instead of this million that we're going to save with two less fees, I suggest we save four million by no one getting a fee, because all these other members appointed by the government are probably employed somewhere, and they're usually people who work in government bodies, so it's good to pay them this 46,000 dinar fee. And to do that, not only on this board of directors, but on all boards of directors. Thirty thousand people are sitting on various boards of directors, whatever they call them in Serbia, suggest this and we will support it with two hands. It's rationalization. We've been talking here for hours about rationalizing for two fees. I have to admit, I spoke once, I didn't think the director would receive compensation when he was already receiving a salary of 140,000 dinars, and I don't know what this fee would do to him on the board of directors, but well, that's how it was, now there won't be, there's that savings of 46,000 dinars a month two times. So let's talk about it if we want to save how much money is spent only on foams, on loans that this government can't withdraw because it doesn't have prepared projects, because it can't do the jobs that are agreed and now it doesn't have anyone, there's no knowledge or ability to do. Am I ever going to get an answer here to how much money was spent getting coal from Romania? I've been waiting for months for an answer from the Secretary-General. The coal we don't need, and now we can read that coal is a shrimp, that it's not even coal from Romania, it's some shrimp.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26810	Please be kind and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26811	Well, the board of directors is a story of rationalization, of rationalization, of how government money is spent. It's just a smudge of Serbian citizens' eyes by saving twice 46,000 dinars in one, leaves seven of them who will receive 46,000 dinars, seven. If most of the four appointed by the government always decides, then one or none of them is enough. It's pointless for someone to get paid if they're only going to work on the minister's order. Then the minister should order the director of the service what and how he will do, approve of his programs and similar things, because it will be in practice. The majority will vote on the ministry's proposal anything they are told in the ministry. That's why it makes no sense for these people to even exist and to receive some compensation. Either cancel the fees for everyone or cancel the board as something you don't need, and then we'll save it. And it can still go to 30,000 places in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26812	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26813	You know how, usually everywhere in the world, it's the government that's fighting for as many people on boards as possible, so that, as she votes, she can vote, so she can put as many of her people as possible, and the opposition is struggling to be as few places on boards as possible because of rationalization, etc. In our case, the government struggles to reduce its ability to employ its own people, and the opposition struggles to make as many places as possible, hoping to come to power so that they will do so when they are in power. In 2013, with sixty-sixty-thousands, we reduced 31 or 30,000 seats in various supervisory committees and, as you can see, nothing has changed negatively. We, as counterpart Risticevic mentioned, have reduced the PIO Fund and RFZO from 21 to seven, and these are millions of savings. I hadn't noticed that RFO worked worse and PIO worked worse, and on the contrary, it works more efficiently. The same goes for the National Employment Service. Speaking of why the government should have that number, here's what I'll tell you in numbers. The total budget of the National Service 35,964,436,000 dinars. Of that, 6,800,000 dinars are paid from the Ministry of Labour, and the Ministry of Finance is 8,900,000 dinars, so nearly half of the money that comes into the National Service comes from the budget and it is logical that the government of the Republic of Serbia plays a difficult role. According to earlier legal solutions, the government of the Republic of Serbia played a difficult role, had four representatives of the Social-Economic Council, four representatives of the government and the director who was put on the government's proposal and, of course, had implemented the government's policy and of course the relationship was five-four and now the relationship was four-three, but here it was reduced and plus, we threw out this really weird...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26814	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26815	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26816	No, you don't finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26817	Just one more sentence. So we threw it out so the director would evaluate himself, as it has been so far, and no one would mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26818	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the members of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery and please welcome our guests with applause today. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26819	Someone just said, I'm using the time of the parliamentary group, someone from a colleague just said: "Flying the eyes of the public." I will remind you of an example from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I would like that MP, who considers this reduction and the savings of 10,000 euros by petting his eyes, to define what the procedure means? Two members of the State Council of Prosecutors and two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are elected from the ranks of lawyers. I'm sure my colleague, Bosko Ristic, knows very well. The fees for working in the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary of the Orders for those four or four people were at the level of the average, or pardon, amounted to a parliamentary allowance, or 30,000 dinars. Then someone, there in 2009, remembered, and by the decision of the parliamentary majority of the National Assembly of Serbia's Administrative Committee, said – No, not enough, it is a small one; so the role and amount was changed, Mr Minister, so by the decision of the Administrative Committee and the then parliamentary majority made by the proposer of this amendment, the fee was increased from a parliamentary allowance to six average earnings in Serbia. Six average earnings in Serbia, then four people, and so on for years. I am sure the amendment's proposer will now call Bosko Ristic and he will describe all the details because he was the main brain of the action, how in a very short time the Republic of Serbia's budget, in favour of, of course, similar, sucked over 11 million dinars. Eleven million dinars until the changes in 2012, until we got that decision back to the height of the parliamentary supplement, and you know what happened then, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, You know what happened then to the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Suddenly, your elected lawyers resigned. No one wanted to work for 30,000 dinars. No one wanted to participate in the work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, but they wanted to work at that point per man, according to one member of 197,000 dinars, only compensation for the work of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary. Well, then, if this is eye-stamping to the public, saving from a million and 128 thousand dinars a year, what is it and what is it called, other than the haughtiness that has destroyed our public finances, how else is it to say what is the procedure that the former regime proposed by the amendment raised its hand and voted that in less than two years more than 11 million dinars from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, all of you respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that four or four lawyers who were naturally elected by the former regime? I'm sorry to mention the name of the esteemed Mr. Bosko Ristic, but I'm not in a position to answer because he's no longer a national MP, but I'm sure if the amendment promoter, if he doesn't remember him, calls the phone, I'm sure he'll describe the whole operation in detail and agree with me. I would just like to hear what the definition of this process is, which is the definition of dragging into the pockets of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make their favorites their lawyers, no matter what, out of the budget of 11 million dinars for two years? Why'd you change your mind? Why'd you change your mind? Why'd you change your mind? You've increased those people's fees almost seven times, and now you're saying, "No, don't cut it, don't save it." No, the only thing that's for sure is not-- No, we're not taking your feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26820	Let me see who's up. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Ministers Vulin and Honored Guests and Guests of our National Assembly today, the People's MPs of the New Party have also announced, in principle, that we will vote in favour of this proposal, as well as the proposal for a law on the use of sign language. We have not, gentlemen, submitted any amendments to either of these two draft laws, but I consider it my obligation to respect the presidents, however, to respond to this discussion that we have so far on the amendment to Article 1 which, on behalf of the proposing group, has been explained by our fellow MP Marko Djurisic. First of all, Mr. Vulin, just before here, I listened carefully, said he was surprised that someone from the opposition wanted to retain a number of board members, and that the government wanted to reduce the number of board members a little bit so that it could be rationalized, and Mr. Vulin heard our discussion before when we spoke in the principle debate that we should delete those boards. How is it that Minister Vulin didn't rationalise a third proposal, that we don't have members of the Management Board at all, gentlemen, but we are now serving some of the achievements that are terminological to discredit the amendment's promoter. I don't think it's the right thing to do in our National Assembly, gentlemen. Dear President Gojkovic, I have heard one more thing today and in this debate, and I think it is time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that I think once and for all we can resolve this issue of the amendment "expect". We heard from MP Zoran Babic again that it was not appropriate, just before. Mr Djurisic said – the amendment is appropriate to "be deleted" and I must stand in defense of this attitude, Mr Đurisic. Dear gentlemen, when one MP decides that the content of one member of the law is not right or that the bill is not entirely right, it can be legitimate philosophy and the approach of the MP to fight in our dialogue here with amendments "expect" with the aim of adjudicating the bill. I think the esteemed presidents that there must be no more dilemma about it and that your obligation is I think that whenever a national MP, in this case from the SNS, gets up, gets a word and says – It is not right; that you warn that MP and tell him that it is okay, that MPs have that right, respected Mrs Gojkovic. One more thing to mention, gentlemen, not only is it okay, but it can also be meaningful and the confirmation that it is meaningful came from a lady who is in a frozen status in SNS, and this is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Please honoring the presidents to confirm this, that you are nodding at what I am about to say, Mrs Tabakovic, to hear SNS MPs, has accepted in our one debate our two amendments "expect". If Mrs Tabakovic, once when we discussed here, accepted two amendments that read – is deleted, that means that this lady means that it makes sense and the amendment is deleted. Well, when an SNS MP comes and says -- that doesn't make sense, he crashes, not only with the opposition, but also with the governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, who, as far as I know, is the deputy president of the SNS, in standstill status. Please, gentlemen, let's think about it when we discuss it here. Our words produce some consequences. When we say something, it sometimes needs to be universalized, that it doesn't only apply at one point, one moment, but that something that's principle applies over a long period of time, gentlemen. Dear Mrs. Gojkovic, if you'll excuse me, I'd only be out of the subject in 15, 20 seconds, just 15 seconds. I don't normally do that, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26822	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26823	Just one question for Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26824	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26825	So you're not letting me ask the minister a question? Here, to hear what it is, and to judge it. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26826	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26827	Is it true that Minister Vulin opened the elevator? I don't believe that happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26828	Thank you very much. Don't be angry, but we'll do it some other time. I pulled out the speaker and it didn't come out in public. It's like he didn't ask anything. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26829	Thank you. I join the invitations not to adopt the amendment. I also call on the promoter and other distinguished colleagues to slowly bring an end to the debate under this amendment, both for a very simple reason, those arguments that we have heard about the possible adoption of amendments from themselves. She's at least weird. What were we able to hear? The invitation to actually rationalise is being carried out even more drastically, an invitation to further reduce the number of board members, an invitation to abolish fees to all board members, an invitation to abolish fees to all members of all boards of directors in Serbia. When you hear something like that, and then you look at what's actually proposed, and the amendment is proposed to actually preserve a number of board members and that all possible savings be less, you can just put your finger on your forehead and ask yourself – does the promoter even know what he wants? If we accept that what he said today is his true, sincere desire, that is to make rationalization bigger and more drastic, I can only conclude that if we accepted the amendment, that outcome would not be satisfied with the amendment's proposal. It would not come out to meet his desire for rationalization and savings to be only greater. Since it's clear that neither logic here nor logic, if we stick to the debate and the arguments that have been presented, there is no, but it's just wasting time on something that should be discussed, a clean debate for the sake of storytelling and generating noise as long as possible today, I'm going back to my proposal to finish the debate under this amendment. I believe we'll have something to really exchange an opinion on in the follow-up today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26830	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26831	President-in-Office, here, we no longer want to be silent about the demagogy that the head of the SNS parliamentary group has been meeting all these years, three years as long as this coalition is in power. We want to tell the truth, and as far as this amendment is concerned, it concerns the savings Mr. Babic was talking about. Here, we have the data, in the meantime we've collected it when it comes to savings. So the state of Serbia is an absolute record player in Europe by taking and unrealised and unrealised loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26832	Ambassador, you didn't ask for a replica. There was no basis for replication. I'll let you talk, just please, if we can discuss the details as much as we can about the amendments and why you think something needs to be deleted. I understand completely, and I'm on the side of the MPs, and they can take any amendment they want. Just in that sense, we don't get into replicas that weren't caused.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26833	That's right, I agree, President. In addition to what our parliamentary group has proposed to delete a member, that is, part of the membership on the board of directors, I would like to point out that there are other positions decided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a reason. So, four million euros, and 480 million dinars, therefore, Serbian citizens listen to this, four million euros, or 480 million dinars per year, paying the Republic of Serbia by taking out of the pockets of all citizens because the Serbian government is incompetent and unable to withdraw loans. Here's some statements for the team. The EBRD Director in Serbia, Mateo Patrone, said at the Kopalnik Business Forum that the Republic of Serbia must speed up infrastructure projects and point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26834	Please, Ambassador, be kind and return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26835	... that as much as three and a half billion euros intended for the state for projects are not realised. So I call on the Serbian government to save on positions where it is real and those positions that would employ Serbia's construction operation, which was the goal of taking credit and building infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26836	Ambassador, we're already talking about the government in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26837	Well, a year is the government, or three and a half years of government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26838	I know, but we can't come up with a topic for homework right now. Let's talk about a year of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26839	So I call on the government of Serbia, or Minister Vulin, to accept this amendment and to advocate that we do not spend money in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26840	There'll be time. The reconstruction has been announced, so the government will be able to talk. Today is not the day I ask you to focus on concrete billings. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26841	Thank you. Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I appreciate that you tried several times to warn the previous speaker not to talk about things that aren't on the agenda today and they don't have much to do with the law that's on the agenda. There was a concern about employment, there was a concern about savings, there was a concern about rationalization, but I ask you, Madam Chairman, only let them not worry about rationalization, or savings, or employment, or unemployment, because their concern about it was in the best way they felt about it in their own skin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26842	Please don't enter the replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26843	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26844	Yes, it is. So, Article 106, you said where I was wrong, but don't use it now to answer everything Janko Vesenovic said in his address, so I ask all MPs to stick to the agenda. Thank you for paying attention to article 106. Clearly, all we need to talk about is the agenda point. To each other, the third sentence MPs always say something different and something wider. I'm aware that today's session will be used, let's say abused, although I don't think it's some big abuse, so we'll talk about a year of government work. I've been aware of that and I've been trying to focus everything on talking about laws, specifically amendments, and there's going to be an opportunity to talk about an anniversary of government work. I ask you all together, so you don't come into a situation where you talk, and you don't replicate, and that the laws stand in front of us and that we don't talk about what we want at all. Do you want us to vote on Article 106's injury? (Alexander Markovic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26845	Yeah, according to the amendment, 'cause I don't think I can get a straight line, but good. I ask you to have the same archaic, respected presidents, according to everyone, so when a colleague, the head of your parliamentary group, speaks here for six minutes about the High Council of Justice to remember that it is also an exit from the topic. So, not to interfere with the opposition's MPs when they talk about how this government demagogues the rationalization. I have to answer to Mr. Minister, who here explained how the government is showing this he's struggling to have no more of his presidents on the board of directors. Nothing changes. The government had four. If you adopt this bill, there will still be four. You have reduced the possibility for representatives of the Social and Economic Council to have four members on the board of directors. So you haven't reduced the space for the appointment of your party soldiers. He stays the same. They'll still receive 46,000 dinars a month. If you're going to rationalize something in Serbia, cut them out 46,000. As an argument why the government should have a majority, you have listed it this way, says – the budget is 32 billion, eight billion come from the Ministry of Finance and six billion dollars come from your budget. So 14 comes from the government, from the budget, and that's people's money. It remains, Mr. Minister, 18 billion paid by employees. So, more money is paid by employees than the government gives from the budget, and then it would be more normal if the government didn't have a majority, because it didn't provide most of the budget. That's math, that's what they learn in elementary school, even in these lower classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26846	The word has a minister named Vulin. Please, for a moment, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26847	You failed to add another 800 million from work and another 900 million from the Ministry of Finance, but who's gonna count? It's certainly not the most important thing. The government bears responsibility, the government makes decisions, very simple, in every democratic country, that is the principle. Too bad you didn't fight for that principle when we cut from 21 to seven to the PIO and 21 to the seven at the RFO. That's how it'll be seven at the National Employment Service. I don't know why we fight so many boards. As you can see, the government has given up fighting for the boards of directors. We're not fighting to increase the number of members. We're not doing this and we're done. It says here we're changing the law for saving two members. That's not true. Not with precision in Articles 8 and 9 we lost 270 million dinars in court judgments. Twenty-seventy million dinars of folk money are lost because someone didn't exactly write as the basis is calculated. Among other things, that's why we're changing this law, and let's change it for one board member or two, which is true, and that will certainly mean saving something. I don't know what's not clear about wanting to save. I don't know how that would increase the efficiency of the board of directors if they got bigger. They should be smaller. It's going to be smaller everywhere than PIO, RFO, National Service, it's going to be smaller everywhere. The law is like that. The Management Boards, or Supervisory Boards, cannot be abolished because there is a legal obligation, as I see here the Employment Act is mixed with the Social and Economic Council Act, and in terms of delegation of representatives to the relevant boards of directors, but good. We'll discuss it. We've got all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26848	National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is not fundamentally different from Mr Mark Djurisic's amendments, because we too doubted whether we would prefer to preserve the power of the Social-Economic Council on this Management Board, which the minister is trying to implement these amendments and amendments to the law, or, on the other hand, whether the cost rationalisation is at stake, and here we said that 10,000 euros is a really big figure and that the SNS, the government, is pushing for 10,000 euros to be saved. We think it's not about rationalization, it's about mere demagogy. Mr. Pavicevic says we're competing here with our wits, but I think this is about replacing thesis. Marko Djurisic said that 30,000 people live and sit on individual boards across the country, and that it does not bother anyone when it comes to savings or when it comes to policies of rationalisation. This is about something else. These are replaced by the following, in order to put the role of the Social and Economic Council, as an institutional framework for an agreement between employers, workers and the state, in a completely different way, so that the Social and Economic Council is revoted in the Management Board of the National Employment Service and then the question arises - if all the board of directors will work on the orders of the Minister, then why does this board even exist? It's not about any 10,000-euro savings. If it were savings, half a billion euros would not be given to an investor from the UAE two days ago, and on the other hand promised that 2,000 euros from the citizens' pocket would be allocated for the project. We think it's quite clear here. With this amendment, trying to strengthen the Social-Economic Council, we tried to propose something that would read as follows: not four members of the board of directors to have a government, but a Social-Economic Council, and the Government to have three. That's fair, then. That, then, is essentially what the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia are all about, but that's not what this is about. In fact, this is about revote, about the weakness of the Social-Economic Council and, ultimately, about demagogy to save all power under the password and all control puts into the hands of Minister Vulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26850	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26851	Thank you, Your Honor. We can't accept such suggestions. It's unheard that someone against a decision that goes in favor of reducing a certain number of people on boards from nine to seven. You know, those who have always filled boards in the past, and that was their source of income for their party officials, we have introduced some newspapers when we talk about our state and public administration. I would remind the previous speaker, only on the case of the City of Belgrade, that in all public enterprises, which is closely related when we talk about boards of directors, the number of board members or boards of directors, however you will, has been reduced from nine to three. Imagine, at nine, how much was in the original version when some others ran the City of Belgrade, today there are three members. If we're talking about fees on the boards themselves, on certain boards of directors, compensations amounted to 40,000 dinars, and today there are 20,000 dinars. Imagine, the first three times we reduced the number of board members, and then we cut the profits in half, or compensation. On the other hand, the concept of SNS, which we introduced a few months ago, which was unknown to you during a 12-year rule in which we saw nothing good, is to eliminate double functions, which has to do with politics and the very relationship of SNS, which today bears the greatest responsibility in our country, is that you can't have a double function or be on several boards. We can always talk about bigger savings, about a better system, improving the system itself, but don't talk about spending unfounded money on boards, that is, money, you who opened agencies, boards, everything in this country, which only led to one situation, which is a money pump. We cut it all in half, we even cut some things three times. I support this decision, but it's always your priority, as a priority of your policy, to attack something far better than what you've offered. I'm not saying it's always ideal, but we can talk about it. Don't talk about savings. We've saved a year more than you have in 12 years. In fact, you didn't even save, but you saw only costs increase economically unfounded, but the SNS takes care of our finances and that's why we have economic shifts for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26852	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26853	My view is that there is no need for boards of directors in the largest number of public enterprises and institutions. I think the National Employment Service is a good example. Neither will the board of directors hire anyone, nor will there be more employees, if there are 10-12 on the board of directors, nor will it be greater if there are 5-6. It's a service that should be part of a state system that needs to create conditions for human employment. In the position of both the state and the National Service, the National Service is actually part of the Department of Statistics. It records the number of employees and unemployed, their structure, per year, by school, by how much they worked, whether they were looking for a job or not for the first time, by regional representation, and does nothing to hire people and it is nothing unusual. The National Service can't hire people. It is a government job in one country, to create an old word – the environment, the conditions, to attract investors, to provide them with safe business conditions, and then, of course, there will be employment, and then, of course, there will be a reduction of the number of unemployed. This has not been happening in Serbia for a very long time, but especially in the last three years. The last three years have been unusual or, I don't know why that would be unusual, probably expected because there's a big estranged story here about reducing the number of unemployed, and I can't get an answer any other time -- how many people are employed in Serbia. Not how many people pay taxes and contribute to pay, not how many people are on unemployment records, but the question is how many people are employed. If it's a state secret, let's be familiar with that fact, if that's a bad number, that means it's talking about reducing the number of employees, then say, however, since no secret can be hidden, not even in Serbia, under this media control. I think it's good to have real clean data. The whole game about what is said in percentages, and then by changing the methodology that is being denied here, but definitely by changing the methodology is a dramatic decrease in the number of unemployed in percentages because no real, formal employment is recorded now, but rather whether someone has a sense of doing something, so according to the surveys that have now measured these new methodologies, employees and people on fleas, employees and people working temporarily in some seasonal jobs, whether in construction or in agriculture. In the EU, I will repeat prostitutes are part of the methodology called by the government and the competent minister, and they are being held as employees. It's not in good practice or in the tradition of this country. I don't think we should do that. What is the reason for unemployment, which is, of course, more and more, regardless of the various fairy tales about it being smaller, is that we have corrupt authority and parts of the administration that are related to employment. I don't think so much of the service itself, but of those who, according to the ministries and local self-government, are linked to it, which is the first front of the investor's refusal to invest in Serbia. In addition, we also have privileged positions of all those who receive money for new jobs, without talking about those with whom the Government of Aleksandr Vukic signs secret agreements, secret contracts, and then hides them with lies that contracts cannot be announced to the public until the respective competition protection committee allows it. It doesn't exist in any law. The example is the Treaty "Belgrade on Water", the other day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26854	I ask you, Mr. Zivkovic, to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26855	I ask once again -- how many people in Serbia have a work book where they have a working relationship, or how many people in Serbia have a permanent employment contract or a working relationship for a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26856	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26857	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not, as a predecessor, go over the amendment and what is the agenda point. So, I'll speak exclusively by amendment and very briefly. I suggest that this amendment be rejected. So the amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, where certain structural changes are proposed. It is, in effect, point 1 of point 3 where the word “four” is replaced by the word “three” while in point 2 the word “three” is replaced by the word “four”. Again, ladies and gentlemen, the way the board members are appointed and the structure of the board of directors is something that is regulated by the existing law, and that these changes actually only reduces the number of board members from nine to seven. It's something that's good and it's functional. It's something that represents a concrete kind of savings and rationalization. You should support this proposal. I urge you to support this proposal, too, because it is something that is useful both for our country and for the law itself. Do something good sometimes and support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26858	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just as the previous speaker has said, we will support our proposal and we will vote for this amendment for a simple reason because it strengthens the social economic council, even in a control section. At nine, it was reduced to seven under the pretext of saving members of the board of directors, and actually Minister Vulin reduced those proposed by the Social Economic Council, and those members of the board of directors proposed by the Government of course did not change their number and there is absolutely no savings there. It's demagogy, it's something that's the least said replacement of thesis. We think this is a thing called, as the head of the SNS Parliament Club said was a definition of this haughtiness. The definition of this is actually something else entirely. Two days ago we gave half a billion euros, and here the argument is used to damage 10,000 euros. That's funny and that's what the circus is about when it comes to this amendment and the addition of the law. The definition is therefore not boastful, the definition is “Belgrade on Water” and we think you should adopt this amendment in order to show a minimum understanding of the reality in which you live. It's not the reality of your chairs, your cars, your jobs, your SNS employees. The reality is completely different, and if we give in here as a society or as a state, the Social Economic Council loses its strength and its power, trust me that nothing good will come of this whole business. We think it's very important to save on the real things that are real, not to take citizens 2,000 euros per employee to give to an investor from the UAE, but to actually save on these things, not because Minister Vulin has an absolute majority and that he can revote the Social Economic Council and that all the institutions that exist in this country collapse, in that you are champions, and that's what we told you in the debate in principle. We think you'll be remembered as a minister who may have spoken more lies than in that JUL and SPS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26860	Please, Mr. Bozovic, respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26861	Thank you, Your Honor. I would appeal to go back to the subject in any way, because the previous speaker only hears some billions and millions, and we don't really know what it's about. Is it possible for someone to talk about debauchery and cars, for example? a session of the main committee where all ministers in most cases came in private cars, which was not a practice until 2012, when some ministers, one of them who led the army on their birthday, took a helicopter. But that's where we differ. We don't just use state cars, we don't use helicopters, we don't use airplanes, we don't really have an out-of-date fleet, and I don't want to have a day to get hurt, but we don't want to act too arrogantly and we don't want to spend money. Who's talking about debauchery and cars? Does the party's representative when during the rule of the foreign country in Belgrade, besides all the failed investments by robbers such as Bulevar King Alexander, underground containers, buying Inexa, overpriced buses, the city's manager, for example, drove a 70,000-euro BMW and went to action, or to approach the citizens of Belgrade and convince them that what he does for Belgrade is really good. The last one you've been invited to this country to talk about haughtiness. I ask you again to question what is being done today in Belgrade, except that you have left us a 20.25% deficit, which is the historic deficit of Belgrade City. I call upon you to inquire, that today there are no more nine members in public enterprises, as there were in your time nine members on the boards of directors, but there are three, that there are half-prices and that is a huge savings. Speaking of cars, unlike you who bought new cars every month, we have issued a bidding and sold to dozens and hundreds of cars that don't use anything, except to pump money in terms of depreciation costs, fuel costs, etc. You are indeed the best PR project "Belgrade on Water". In addition to unconnected talk about this project and changing numbers all the time in each presentation, each of your appearances publicly in the context of the attack on this project "Belgrade on Water", only creates even greater support in the people according to this project, which is really good for us, it is bad for you and you have shown it by your great solemn rally of all 4,000 people. But I'm not going into your politics. I only ask that what is good for Serbia, what is good for Belgrade, projects that are developmental and that will bring new jobs, projects that will raise our construction industry, projects that will change the economic situation in Serbia for the better, which is totally diametrically the opposite of when it was worse and when you promised 400,000 jobs, don't dispute it and don't always be against anything even if it's good for the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26862	Please, Mr. Jovic, return to the amendment. Thank you. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26863	I'll use the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26864	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26865	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I see things have been going on in some incredible flow...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26866	I'd like to ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26867	... but to explain the proposed amendment first of all, so there is no confusion. I see there's a lot of confusion. It is no problem and the DS supports reducing the number of board members. So that's what we said in the principle debate, that's what we're saying right now. What bothers us and that we are trying to change this amendment, the distinguished colleagues, is to create a different parity in the seats of board members. So, don't try, I trust not maliciously, to present this thing to the citizens in an incredible way, as we've just listened to before. I understand that you have a problem with this proposal for some reason, you don't want to accept it, it's okay, but I don't understand how you're from the fact that the number of members of the government on the board is shrinking, and the number of members of the Social-Economic Council is increasing by one, and that the number of members of the board remains in line with what you have suggested, how did you come from that fact to keep the Democrats from wasting their pride and more members of the board? Just explain it to me. It has nothing to do with math, or logic, or common sense, it has nothing to do with truth. So, I understand you, I understand, and I even have a sympathy for when you face such a clean situation, that you have a desire to say – Miskovici, or to say – wants a larger number, or say – Belgrade on the water, you are against. What does that have to do with the amendment? So we ask that the number be that, but that the number of representatives of the Social-Economic Council be greater by one, and the number of representatives from the Government is smaller by one. So the number stays the same. As you do not understand, it is not clear to the citizens that you are in charge of eight billion euros, and you claim that debt is falling and debt is growing. Here's the thing, I only make a parallel, with no intention of causing controversy. You can't get it together. What is wrong with it, dear ministers, that the number of representatives of the government is reduced by one, and the number of representatives of the Social-Economic Council increases by one, staying at the number that you yourself have suggested? So, we're not talking about savings, we're talking about influence, we're talking about the possibility that stakeholders are fighting for their rights and their interest in the legally elected law body. That's all. We think this is better because of better dialogue, because of the quality of decision-making. If we already have a board of directors, one anachronism, one of the rest of the past time, I don't mean those past times that are in your head, but some even before that, it's a good step to reduce the number of people on boards, it's a good step, but the next step has to be a complete deregulation in terms of unnecessary governing bodies, or in this case, pseudo-management, quasi-management. They should have their representatives and people from unions and people who gather employers, much more than is now foreseen in terms of influence, not numerically, not quantitatively. That's what we're trying to explain. It is not right that the World Economic Forum, which you often refer to as an ideal, the ideal of yours, I would even say, amateur neoliberal authorities, puts us on its list for 10 seats in the past two years because of your inefficientness. We are an inefficient state, gentlemen. Let's fix it, let's fix it. The fact that unfortunately on all those rankings we fell, we fell to those organizations you call upon. He can't hide any trams you set to stop the Protestants. You don't have a tram here to set it up. This part doesn't have anything to do with it, but it paints the fact that you're talking about something that has nothing to do with the subject. You have not responded, Mr. Chairman. Now I see you looking at me with waiting to interrupt me and I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26868	I'm not responding, but I'm asking you again to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26869	I'm really going back to being a member. Please, without intending to challenge the controversy, consider this amendment. He's got the same idea in him. I'm recapitulating it, it contains the same thing, it's just parity different. We give more power to those who are interested, to those who are from the union, to those who represent employers, not to the government. The government will show strength, according to the minister, to lead and manage the deregulation. You're neoliberal, you're for deregulation. Here, deregulate. Now, why don't you deregulate when you have power in your hands, but we have to wait for you to leave to do things like this for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26870	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Mr Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26871	I'd just like to say a few words. I am sorry that my colleague Zivkovic is out of the hall, but I would like to say that someone who strengthens economic cohesion and who really advocates having equal representation as our social partners, as employers, as well as the unemployed on one side, is the national service on our country's territory, as well as everywhere in the environment. You know what bothers me when a fellow MP tells me that the National Service is conducting a mere statistic. No, gentlemen, it's not true. I can tell you that my colleague Marijan Risticevic has been speaking almost from the beginning of this assembly's appeal constantly about the fact that the MP commenting that money is being shared in a very strange way, that absolutely no criteria are respected, is not true for the simple reason that the MP himself is a user of the Fund for Development, and then we ask from the national service the question – how is this measure effective if later this company is sold and I am very interested in what was the realisation of employment from such a development fund? The Serbian Progressive Party, I believe, did not then participate in the distribution of these funds, so it was not in a position to monitor the implementation of the measure. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26872	I thank Mrs. Djokovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26873	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you yourself have stated that there has been no public debate. You also stated that you were talking to some interested people, not telling people who they were, but saying you didn't have a dialogue and you didn't talk to the Social-Economic Council that is at the heart of our amendment. Not only did we support the downturn from nine to seven. I also personally support that the Director of the National Employment Service should not be on the board of directors. That was a mistake. You're correcting this with your proposals. With our amendment, this member can be even better. It is true, we want the amendment to make out of three members of the Social-Economic Council four members, that of the four members, the government remains three members. Why do we think the Social and Economic Council is important? Well, there are 14 years. It was founded in 2001 in some form, an agreement between the government, trade unions and employers. He is in charge of harmonising the interests of government, workers and employers. In 2004, the role of the Social-Economic Council was precisely defined, to strengthen social dialogue in the country. The ministry uses a million and a half euros in tweeting money from the Twinning project to boost social dialogue, and does not ask the Social Council when it adopts laws. The role of the Social Council is to care for the social and economic situation of workers, their lives, the quality of life. That's why we think it's important that they have one more member than the government. That's why we think you should talk to them, strengthen social dialogue. They are not far away, located in the eastern wing of the Palace of Justice, or the Palace of Serbia, near you. Think again about this amendment, I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26874	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26875	Investment is wanted here, but investors are rejected because there are some better and worse investors. There are investors whose money we do not need, which should not come, it is said – we do not need Arabs, in those words. It's not a way to attract investors, we need every investor, and we're happy and happy when any of the investors show up. Speaking of "Belgrade on Water", you know, the Adi bridge cost more than "Belgrade on Water". A single bridge costs more than "Belgrade on Water", and don't forget, for "Belgrade on Water" we haven't singled out a single dinar. It's the investor who gives money, and as far as the coastal arrangements are concerned, the eviction of the train station, so it was an obligation of the last local self-government. It was the obligation of the City of Belgrade, a legal obligation he never fulfilled, of course, and now it's time for us to do it, but good. As for the very idea of deregulation, that's a great idea. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina can be deregulated immediately. Here, have Mr. Pitiæ remove all boards and boards immediately, here's a fantastic opportunity to show what he could do. You're not the opposition, you're the government, you're the government in Vojvodina. Anything you suggest you do to me here in the AP Vojvodina space, so your words will have a significantly higher weight. We spoke with the representatives of the Social and Economic Council on these issues, and as we discussed. We even had a special agenda point of the Social-Economic Council where we talked about this point. I'm sorry, and according to the past legal solution regarding the board of directors, the government had a majority, and there is now. Nothing has changed since then. Not to mention now that, excuse me, it's not the role of the Social-Economic Council to run the National Employment Service. The founder of the NSZ is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, accordingly, has to behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26876	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic, but not a replica, only after the amendment if you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We know that the founder of the Republic of Serbia and we know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is what covers everything that happens under her laps, but I told you it was a matter of a new approach. You're not losing anything in the number of representatives, you're just losing in that there's no need to rely on someone in the future, not you personally, but anyone, to most within the Management Board. You're in this way actually stimulating dialogue between two groups of people sitting in the management structure of the Employment Service, that's all. I don't see why the government wouldn't have that courage and that power to step out of what's called the usual. Nothing in Serbia is common with such high unemployment and therefore things need to be changed and, besides, it seems to me that citizens have voted for you to change things. We support, I repeat, a reduction in the number of board members, we support and that the director is not an automatic member of the board, we also said that in the principle debate. What we're asking you to do, we're trying to sort of direct you to these arguments, Mr. Minister, to change the parity, that's what we want you to do. I really don't see any power in the answer – that's how the government manages, and that's why it needs to have a majority. Why? Why should there be a majority in one organ that has essentially never shown the justification of its existence at all, let alone anything else. Now that we know that that is the case, and that is the case, allow, do, show that you are able to reduce the number of representatives of the government by one, and increase the number of representatives of the Social-Economic Council. Especially given all the negative experiences from the past, all the mistakes, all the failures, here's a chance to change that. Simply, the reduction is positive, but then this is the thing that surrounds that this process really goes in one good justice and that people who are life-interested in the functioning of the Employment Service really have the opportunity to speak to the government on a flat foot, as they say. No matter how small the government would have one, it's strong because it's government, it's strong because it contributes part of the budget, but part of it and not most of it. Therefore, there is no mathematical or logical justification for things to be such ministers. No one in Serbia wants to force any investor, any investor, please, it has nothing to do with this. The investor is the one who, by definition, invests his capital in the realisation of a particular project, which has previously passed the legal procedure. No one invested their money, no one passed the legal procedure, so they can't even be an investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26878	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26879	Thank you, Your Honor. I am pleased, chairman, that Mr., the Honorable previous speaker, supports everything that has been introduced as a new SNS concept, from saying that he supports that we have reduced both the number of boards and members of these boards of directors, as well as the fees on these boards. He also said that he supports and that we sold out the official cars, that we abolished fuel costs, depreciation and everything else, but I don't understand, you are now supporting what you could have done in the last days where Serbia today would be far more economically powerful, stronger, more modernised, etc. But never mind, I'm glad you support it now. I'm aware of your concept. If we had adopted this amendment, dear ministers, they would have said – and why does the government have any proposal on these boards? We cut from nine to seven, the government proposes four, the Social Council three, but then you'd say that the reverse situation is, why do you suggest anything at all? You'll find something to catch yourself up on to make a fake picture, a criticism that you still stand for equality, social justice, for citizens, for their better lives, etc., but we know each other. You know it's a farce, it's nothing and you never stood up for it. You'd always find something, but in addition to the facts that we've presented, and you've accepted and said it's good and that you agree with it, we're really getting into a situation where you recognize the efforts to finally get Serbia up, up and develop, and we're grateful for that. You were just talking about some tram that he was being held back. Well, it's not, because you bought such trams that are more in the garage than on the street, because they're expensive for maintenance. We sell cars, we make savings on fuel, on boards, in supervisory committees, we don't have double functions, and you buy one expensive toy that citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade still pay in terms of huge loans, and then you tell us – you're in charge. I ask a banal question, today it was also as a parliamentary question – what about the Development Bank and who ruined Vojvodina Development Bank? I apologize, another question that was, what is a representative of the government, people, you are not an opposition, you have an AP Vojvodina, one of the best regions of our country that has the greatest potential, but you are not engaged in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26880	Please, Mr. Jovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26881	You're right to chair, but we just saw that the topic is turning around and they're asking certain questions, or attacks on the government, so you haven't responded, but I respect you and I'll rephrase the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26882	I also reacted when it comes to Mr Stefanovic and when it comes to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26883	All right. Please don't always ask for a little something, even in good suggestions, and in your original sentence you supported everything we do, to accuse anyone of obstructing the rally. Indeed, no one has obstructed anything because we haven't even noticed that some big rally was, not just us, but the citizens of Serbia. I therefore believe that these proposals are good and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is struggling to have one equality, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia plays a dominant role in all processes, because we bear the greatest responsibility, praise for success and responsibility for failure. You had 12 years of time to change everything, to end everything, and costs, and boards, and cars, to buy cheaper trams, to build a much cheaper bridge, to make a bank out of the Vojvodina Development Bank that will bring prosperity to our people and citizens, to open factories, to solve the Smederjev Iron, to solve JAT, to solve everything else, but you did nothing. And now wonders, people who say -- people, their interest and standard comes first to us. Unbelievable. You may expect another chance, but I believe that after all that's been seen in the past, and therefore what we saw a few days ago as one big group that supports you, with all the campaigns and NGOs and such and so on, I don't think you have a chance, because what you've done can't be forgotten just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26884	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This said member relates to the work of the National Employment Service and to the employees of the National Service. The Proposer proposes new positions 3 and 4. We've written an amendment to this item 3 and I'll read it. It reads: "The National Service is obliged to provide and organise a programme of introducing employees and professional training and training of employees, as well as to verify the professional skills of employees." We have made the amendment more specific on the obligation of the National Service to adopt and implement certain programmes related to employees of the National Employment Service and their training for work on employment activities, i.e. by verifying their professional skills. Namely, the solution offered by the promoter is not linguistically precise because it cannot be precisely determined whether the National Employment Service has an obligation to adopt a programme for its employees or programmes applied by other employers, and it is our suggestion that the position I have read be changed and said: “The national service is obliged to bring a programme for the employees of Item 1 of this article to the job, its professional training and training and to verify its professional training, as well as to ensure the application of that programme.” The government rejected our proposal with an explanation that the legal solution clearly shows who the programmes in question are referring to. We seem to have offered a solution that is more linguistically and technically correct, in accordance with the unique methodological rules for making regulations. But it is obvious that the apriori Minister seems to me, negatively perceiving all amendments that come from the opposition, and once again I ask you to read this proposal and adopt our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26886	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26887	The amendment, of course, should not be accepted for the reason why it does not stand for the fact that Article 2 of the draft law, the Government, or the competent ministry, is not precise, is not clear and is not linguistically correct. On the contrary, Article 2 and as regards Article 18, which is complemented, it is quite linguistically precise and I will point out that the National Service is obliged to provide and organise a programme for the introduction into the work of employees and professional training of employees, as well as to verify the professional skills of employees. So it's not that the National Service can, it says that the National Service is in charge. Also, one of the objectives of adopting this bill, or supplementing the bill, is certainly to improve the quality of the service provided by employees at the National Employment Service. It is this member who achieves that the quality of the services provided by employees in the National Service is as good as possible and that these quality services are satisfied both by employers and unemployed persons. Of course, in order to achieve a certain quality of adequate provision of services, continuous education is necessary, continuous training, continuous learning of employees, and it is precisely this member that is precise. It also states in Article 2(2) that the National Employment Service will, of course, adopt a general act, which will regulate training, education, knowledge acquisition and other criteria necessary for the continuous and continuous training of employees in the National Employment Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26888	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26889	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vulin, therefore, we have only more detailed and precisely defined this member. For the sake of the public and the citizens, I'll read it. So, we propose by amendment that Article 3 reads: "Other active employment policies aimed at hiring persons from item 1 of point 8 of this article can be created on an annual level by action plan with costs of realisation, depending on the need for the labour market". I believe this is a better definition and that you should consider adopting this amendment. Also, I think this is a good opportunity to talk a little bit about these active employment measures at the National Employment Service, because this amendment and this member of the law that you have proposed is also relevant. The budget of the National Employment Service is just over 36 billion. In principle, you were talking about modernization. There's a director who can be directly involved in this debate of ours. You were talking about modern technologies. Director, do you know how many days the National Employment Service site doesn't work? Mr. Minister, do you know there are organisational units in the National Service that don't have a phone? Who do we hire through the National Service and Organization Units who don't have a phone? If it's social aid, then we should define it that way. We don't have any problem with that, but it needs to be defined as social aid. We should also talk about active measures. So this year more than 15 billion will be allocated from the budget. In four years, I'd say, over 50 billion dinars from the National Employment Service budget. Most of these couples were directed at active employment measures. If the number of employees falls, is it time for us to discuss these active employment measures? Who do we hire with 1,400 euros for self-employment? An even better question – how can we hire and with what skills can people who get that money be employed? How do we hire with what kind of money, say, 700 incoresubs from the National Employment Service list, or 700 cultural technicians, or over 4,000 dactylographs? So that's your problem, but it's not the result of your policy. That's why I want to talk about coordinating several ministries. That's not what you were talking about. I think it is very important for employment, especially for the employment of young people in Serbia. Our education system produces unemployment. That's how it was in 2008, I don't have a problem saying it, but if you want to talk about a better government, change it. We don't need to introduce dual education, we can change the national framework and qualifications of competences, bring the market and educational profiles together, and at least stop producing unemployment. Well, we educate young people for 136 profiles that don't exist on the market. So they're not deficits. They do not exist in the code list of profiles that are needed by the market. That's something to change. How? The co-ordination of the ministries. It's true, it's a good action by the Minister of Youth, who goes through various businesses and looks for jobs to hire young people, but it's like walking to Rome and we can take a plane. I suggest we take the plane by inviting the Minister of Youth and Sports to launch the issue of unemployment for these young people in Serbia. All of Europe stands on its feet. Recently, Chancellor Merkel called a meeting of Europe's leaders with a single agenda -- youth unemployment in Europe. It's not just your problem, it's Serbia's problem, it's a problem all over Europe, but it's being discussed, money is being invested in hiring young people. To bring to the political level the national framework for qualifications, competence, market alignment and educational profiles. We didn't do it in the period from 2008 to 2012, there was a lot of criticism, and then it was, on our own and my own. You and Minister Sertic have a key role to play in supporting active employment measures. If these don't work, let's change them. Something like that, Minister, we'd support it. For now, consider adopting this amendment. We think it'll define and fix this law better, and also think about what I'm talking about. For such a thing you will have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26890	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SNS Dr Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26891	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected ministry representatives, respected ministers, dear colleagues. When we say something is created by an action plan, then that action plan includes costs. In the previous period, what we could conclude, your action plans had everything, they just didn't have a cost and we didn't know where the funds were going, who they were going to and what they were using for? If you've carefully read the arguments, but I know you don't, it says here, tactfully, page six - Law, Reasons. In addition to this, unlike the legislation so far, it is possible for the National Service to, in addition to the criteria and methods of implementing the active employment policy, office and part relating to other issues for implementing active employment policy measures, in particular the cost of measures. Other issues of importance for implementing active employment policy measures. They include, above all, the costs of the active employment policy measures, i.e. the resources needed to enable active employment policies to be implemented and envisaged. Please read what's written, don't abuse the pay phone for something that doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26892	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26893	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, the honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We have submitted the amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law, to which the Proposer intervenes, in fact, in Article 43. The law, which proposes that Article 43 be complemented by a new position 2, which reads: "Other active employment policies directed towards the employment of persons referred to in point (8) of Article 1 of this article can be created on an annual basis by the Action Plan, depending on the need for the labour market". We have suggested that the words "directed towards the employment of a person" be deleted because they are further invoked to point 8 of point 1, which says: "Other measures aimed at the employment of persons seeking employment". We are correcting the amendment in this first part because of legal and technical rules relating to the reference to the second member or the position of the 2nd member. Since this is referred to point 8. of Article 1 of the same article, it comes, in fact, when interpreted, to repetition. In order to avoid that, we find it unnecessary to repeat and suggest that it be deleted. In the second part of the amendment, we suggest that the words "can be created" can be replaced by the words "are determined". In the second part, in fact, we propose to introduce an obligation to establish at the annual level of the Action Plan other measures of active employment policy, as opposed to the proposal's solution, which envisioned the universityality in this segment. The government has rejected the amendment, citing that the bill improves the measures and introduces new measures only if necessary. We are again getting from the government, or from the promoter a very insufferable argument that does not relate to the essence of the amendment intervention. So, again, the purpose of the amendment is a binding norm, to establish other active employment policies by means of the Action Plan. But by rejecting this amendment, we really get the impression that the Minister and the Government do not particularly care about it and that they are only declaring themselves to improve the employment measures. So I suggest you reconsider our amendment and adopt it, to prove that you really care about improving employment measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26894	Thank you. The word is Mr Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26895	I'm just gonna say why this amendment should be rejected. I have to tell you that an active employment policy is not a questionable panel at the level of one calendar year. Here, I'll give you an example, to make it clearer. If you have one employer who needs ten welders, you look at your records, you don't have such a profile, you see by the territorial mobility that you don't have that profile in the territory of the wider region, and you know, that someone would come for example. To work in Belgrade from Saturday, he must withdraw his family, require some other costs. You will then resort to an active employment measure, training for a well-known employer. So then from a group of locksmiths, which you might have 360 on the record, you're going to pull ten faces, not always ten, but a little more because some of them aren't going through training, not everyone who goes into training. You, for example, will, for a period of three months, place that measure, train nine locksmiths. Of them there will be good ten welders, and thus you will meet one employer who intends to hire these people. This is exactly how I showed how the National Service does it on the ground, how it modifies its measures, changes them into walking because, simply, it is now inescapable under such very difficult conditions. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26896	Thank you. The word has Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26897	I just wanted to thank my colleague for the case and say that both me and my colleagues and my colleagues are quite clear on how it works. We just wanted to commit the National Employment Service to predict the measures by an annual action plan. It's normal for a change in the situation to always require and change, as we do here, from time to time, so the change in the situation in life will also impose an amendment to the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26898	Thank you. Minister Alexander Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26899	At the beginning of the year, we create active measures and we count what measures they are. We do it, the government eventually adopts it, of course, along with socio-economic partners. So everybody participates in creating these measures together, but in the way the colleague talked about, we have the possibility of a flexible response if something happens on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26900	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26901	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, this is the only amendment you've accepted on these two legislative proposals we're discussing today. It is essentially just one revision of the language text of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law that you have given. I think that, in the right way, only by accepting this amendment does it reflect your relationship with parliament for the last year. I've made a statistic of the law that you've defended before the government here in this House. Four laws in the previous year: Labour, Change and Completion Act on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, Foreign Employment Act and Movement Act with the help of the guide dog. On these four laws, MPs submitted a total of 200 amendments. You took five, that's 2.5%. This session today fits right into that statistic. Well, I have to give you the right to be consistent. So, of the 42 amendments we're going to discuss today, you've accepted one. I think that you are probably among the ministers most convinced of the correctness of your proposal, at least you accept the MPs' proposals. Someone might call it arrogance or otherwise, but the fact is that today, of the 42 amendments, we are likely to eventually adopt only today this one that essentially changes nothing but a little legal law patterns with the Serbian language. That, I repeat, seems to me the best picture of your relationship to Parliament and your belief that you know all the best and better than all of us here 250 together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26902	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26903	We accept all amendments that amend the law, and those that do not correct the law cannot be accepted. I am sorry that no more amendments are being adopted, usually amendments that are on those 200 as much as they are mentioned, probably a good part of them have been “expunged” and have been various points and commas, especially when it was, if I remember the Labour Act well. We've been arguing here for a few days. If we had accepted your amendments that I, of course, respect and greatly appreciate, would not have been the law, and as you can see, this law is good and this is a law that gives good results. It's not something that I estimate, it's an assessment of all and biased and impartial. It is also an assessment of those who criticise the law in this House, but when they meet with representatives of foreign investors or representatives of international organisations never say, now say freely, after the next elections we will bring this law down, as soon as we are in power, we will abolish this Labour Act. Don't forget to say it out loud, make a commitment and tell it of course to the representatives of investors who come into this country and create new jobs. I'm not sure that's what anyone's saying, and I'm even less sure it would be well accepted by anyone, even in this country, and beyond. I respect both the position and the opposition and the institution of the MP is of the utmost importance to me. My relationship with that institution speaks of the frequency of my appearance. He says I'm here from first to last second. I'm not going out for a single second, as you might have noticed, I'm not having lunch, I'm not moving anywhere. As you can see, these people will sit here while I sit here, and I will sit here until everything that is necessary is finished, and I have done it for hours in this House and days in this House, and that is my relationship to the opposition, and that is my relationship with every MP. I appreciate all the arguments, but let me bear the responsibility, so I accept what I think is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26904	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26905	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This member of the law refers to public works. The Proposer shall delete Article 2 58's position which provides for the employer who conducts public works to conclude with an unemployed working contract for a specified period of time. In its argument, the Proposer states that the reason for eradicating this provision is, in fact, the expansion of the employer's ability to conclude other employment contracts with the unemployed is different from the employment contract. We believe that the promoter did not achieve his intention, but only predicted that the employer did not have to, and then probably will not conclude a contract to work with the unemployed. I believe that the existing solution is more acceptable and should be kept, and we suggest that Article 6 be deleted. However, we have received a reply from the Government in which it says it presents its reasons for not accepting this amendment and with a fundamentally identical explanation which it cited in the light of the Bill's proposal, therefore, under alleged concern, for the legal status and position of the unemployed who are engaged in public works. If this was indeed an intensifier's intensities, why then the bill does not state at least some of the forms of working legal engagement of unemployed persons such as a contract on occasional transactions, a contract on work and the like. Forms which know labour legislation, etc. In fact, this is about the fact that in the application of the law, the employer will not conclude any contract with an unemployed person. By interpreting the motionor's solution to its own benefit, I find it inconclusive to the Secretary-General's reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26906	The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26907	This amendment, which reads as "expect" is totally unacceptable, and I owe you the notice that we have accepted the amendment of the Committee to Article 6 which is amended and amended in Article 58(2) – the employer who carries out public works concludes with an unemployed employment contract. These include temporary and occasional contracts, and according to labour and public competition regulations. So I think this is a more meaningful solution. So, the amendment of the Committee has been accepted, and "wipes" does not mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26908	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26909	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say a few words about the amendment to Article 6 of the proposed law, and given that I was also one of the initiators for more precise regulation of those provisions. First, let me remind you of what this is all about. One of the perhaps most important measures of an active employment policy aimed at improving employment are public works. In the principle debate, I insisted that this be further encouraged and even more likely to cover the greatest coverage of the person's face with this measure of active employment policy, i.e. in public works. In the current law, Article 58, i.e. the amending law, was that public works were carried out by an employer, a public works contractor designated by the National Service on the basis of a public competition. It doesn't change, it stays. And there was one provision of Article 2 of the employer's position, which carries out public works, concluded with an unemployed working contract for a certain period of time, that provision, that position was proposed by the government to be deleted. Given that she wanted, as we saw from the explanation, to enable other types of jobless employment and not only through a labor contract, we all know the contract of work has two categories either indefinitely or indefinitely. It's a work contract. She wanted to make it possible to embrace it more. Together we agreed in the principled debate and the minister together with us, even I think there was a relative harmony between the position and the opposition that should be put into that provision of the law, so all other forms of employment, of course in accordance with the rules of working relations. I therefore believe that given the fact that there are three amendments to Article 6, one is "expunge", the other is that it should be a work contract that does not solve the issue again, and the third one I think is actually a solution proposed by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, which is that the employer who conducts public works concludes with an unemployed employment contract in accordance with labour regulations and public competition. I think that solves the problem and that allows it to be more precisely regulated, allows for greater coverage of unemployed persons, but also provides legal certainty. Therefore, and of course it will be stimulating for the area, the area of public works. For these reasons, we believe, we will support the amendment of the Committee no matter what it will come upon later, but it speaks of the same member of the amendment to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26910	Thank you. The word is by Master Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26911	Here I will also fully join the opinions of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Employment as well as a previous colleague who has had his statement on the amendments, but what no one has touched in the explanation is the fact that, and that will only be able to tell you people who are specifically involved in the selection of people who are involved in the process of public works, unemployed persons, you have a situation on the ground that those people who you work for are dependent on the type of public work, that there is a very common fluctuation, especially when it comes to low-skilled labour. If you have, for example. The public work of cleaning a river, you have an exceptional situation for people on the ground to avoid or resort to certain diseases, in order to invent certain public work, especially if it is a low qualification structure. If, for example, it is. The city library called public work and then has to hire five professors of literature, believe me, there won't be any fluctuations, people respect that job and work committedly, and you know for yourself that every public work is armed over time means the longest takes six months, and it should be clear to you right away that depending on the type of public work depends on how to sign a contract with certain persons. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26912	Thank you. On Article 6 of the amendment, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, social inclusion and poverty reduction submitted. I ask the Minister to plead according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26913	Sustained, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26914	Since the minister has accepted the amendment, in the day for the vote, we will declare the proposed amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26915	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The amendment that I have submitted with my colleagues to Article 6 reads – The employer who conducts public works concludes with an unemployed appropriate contract of work in accordance with the rules in the field of work and public competition. This amendment has nothing to stand for anymore, but it's procedural things that little who care but us who read and follow everything. Why? Because the amendment refers to the position of Article 58, which was asked by the Government in the basic proposal to completely delete any right of participants in public works to conclude a labour contract. It's the idea of the law. Our idea was an amendment I just read. If the amendment of the Committee gets a majority, then the government will instead have a position that reads – The employer who conducts public works concludes with an unemployed employment contract in accordance with labour regulations and public competition. The amendment I made with my colleagues and the amendment of the committee differs in order of words, and that's all, the idea is the same. I welcome the committee's decision to make such an amendment. I have no idea who I'm explaining to you that one and not another amendment should have been accepted, but I'm talking about the weaknesses of our arguments when I'm obsessed with the desire to undo the other as a living being, as a messenger, let's let ourselves get mad at everything and everything, considering that the old Latin Dascripsi manent fama volans doesn't apply – everything remains recorded. The desire for this in our opinion to be the wrong idea of the government, that those involved in the competition are engaged in public works, that they have virtually no right to sign a labor contract, is quite normal. It's perfectly normal for the government to try to abolish such a right in this law, otherwise it's not the only thing. The interpretation of the decision of this law, I am talking about the spirit of defence of the solution contained in the bill, is that because of the possibility of abuse of workers who have taken severances so as to impose a ban on them to receive cash compensation for the unemployed, unless 12 months uninterrupted or 18 months with interruptions have evidence of payment of contributions. It will also be seen as with many other solutions trying to prevent abuse of rights, especially as already in public, debate even about this law whether it will be a contract, whether it will be paid, how it will be treated, hear different interpretations for, say, workers who get fired, workers who do occasional jobs, how there will still be a clear enough provision that the one who has received the severance has no right to 12 months on cash compensation. We'll see if there are any different interpretations in the future. Why is it important to specify that employees who, that an employer who performs public works must conclude with the unemployed, an appropriate contract of work in accordance with the rules on public competition work, because this represents the application of direct other rights relating to labour rights and unemployed persons. The argument that we exchanged here depends on what is the subject of public works, that the contract depends on it, can hardly contribute to the original idea of the government not to conclude any contract and to delete the provision in Article 58 in paragraph 2. Not doubting that there was no evil intentions of the government here, in the sense that it pays nothing at all, so I never or very rarely tell them about ethics of intent, except in the case of someone's intention by being a good person, it's a good result, it's terrible, and it's a great shame. I have no doubt that here, there was no harm in any public competition working on public works, denying the right, but I think it is a good thing that in the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction have agreed on amendments that will obviously get the support of the majority, given that it is supported by the Government's representatives, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26916	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26917	Very short. It is a order of words, but the order of words completely changes the essence. The labour contract can only be fixed or not for a specified time, and the employment contract can be fixed on both indefinite and occasional jobs. So it's completely different. It is a order of words, right, but these are two completely different legal institutes that regulate the Labour Act, completely different. Don't be fooled by what just sounds like a change in the order of words has changed the essence. The legislator's intention was to enable the employer to operate in public works as widely as possible. In this way and with the participation of the Labour Committee, we have come to a good solution. So it is a difference in words, in order, but first of all, the difference is essentially. These are completely two different institutes. After you've commented, I'll basically wait for all your amendments to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26918	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26919	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. So for someone who submits the bill and completely changes the concept of the bill, there is an amazingly charming arrogance in interpreting what employment is, as the minister entered the Assembly with a proposal that this member does not exist at all. Now the difference between the amendments tabled by a group of Members of Parliament and submitted by the Committee is bitterly explained. The idea of the Assembly is, Minister, not you personally, I am not speaking to you personally, every minister, the idea of the Assembly is that the minister explain to the MPs why he gave up the concept of completely erasing any obligation, not to comment on the amendments of the MPs, however charming it is. When we talk about a job engagement and a work contract being a difference, I can either remember listening to what I'm saying or reading a stenogram, saying that I have no objection to it, on the contrary, that the Committee has brought a unanimous amendment and that you have accepted it. But with the development of the debate, I have serious objections to show genuine ignorance of the role of the promoter and the role of the MPs. It's a common shame. Our common goal is to make it clear from this debate to anyone who may be registered in a public works contest what his rights are in this situation. My obligation and right as an opposition MP who does not support the government is to ask you – what is the twist in your head and the views of the law to enter into the Assembly to delete any bargaining between the employer of public works, and then to zealously defend a completely different solution? But I'm not interested in such a dialogue with you or anyone. I find it unproductive, because I consider it your right to change your mind, but I am interested in establishing a culture of procedures when it comes to the rights and obligations of members of the Government and of the MPs. It's all written somewhere, we just all read it and it's so much simpler for everyone to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26920	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26921	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, I have no objection to a stenogram being reviewed from today's session. I think you've even hurt the Rules of Procedure, because we heard the word "humbling." Nobody's banging around here. We're having a debate, civilized, and when it runs out of arguments, that's what they say. I don't know if it's wrong to focus when the question has been referred to the Minister – ask or raise, refer to discipline or question? I know we've been raised for 12 years, and here we are with their education, and it's up to the government to propose laws. It is in the Assembly that amendments amend laws, even worse amendments, and that we have a good law. There's no turning in your head. We have a debate, a conversation, a deal, so we can do the best we can. Nothing is unchangeable. Therefore, changing one’s mind in a better direction is good, but bad intentions are not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26922	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26923	Thank you. I will only refer to the position put forward by prominent counterpart Misa Petronijevic, given that he, in the right sense, gives the essence of what was proposed to the Committee's amendment already in some way defined. If we're going to talk very precisely, legally, then this is a matter of working-legal status, and the legal institute of working-law status is a little wider in terms of what the minister said and that the working-law status is achieved by working on a fixed or fixed time contract, as well as by a contract on occasional and temporary jobs, which is also widespread as a legal basis for a certain type of employment. What's the point? The point is that this is exactly how the circle of those whose interest is both legal and material should be satisfied. That is also the goal that this amendment was meant to achieve, and it is achieved. In this direction, the SPS Group welcomes the application of the amendment now made by the Committee in relation to the current text of the law, because this is how the quality of the law is raised, that is, what we aim to achieve in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26924	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26925	I'm sorry that the lack of understanding and ignorance of the Labour Act is like the arrogance of the government. I'm sorry, I've heard here that it's just a change of order of words, nothing else, and here I've made it very clear what kind of legal institutes they are. It was also intended by the legislator to extend the scope of the contract, on which you can carry out some work through public works, to enable it. What we've accepted, no twist, it's just an explanation and, let's say, let's calm down the fear that employers won't want to use any other opportunities they have under the Labour Act. You don't think we didn't accept this so someone could hire someone in public work without the Labour Law? So, by what law, does he work on black? That's not possible. This is just an explanation and let's worry about it, this is just our concern that if we've noticed something that at least a little might look like some kind of abuse, we can solve it right now. Labour contracts are off-limits. It's, say, author's contracts, work contracts, temporary and occasional jobs. It's also regulated by the Labour Act. What other law would be regulated? But we just wanted to answer the fear, let's be more careful than we normally are. This amendment has not now introduced any new contracts which would have occurred by interpreting the Labour Act. But let's not make everything out of it... The government has accepted the amendment of the Committee, which also includes representatives of the opposition, and this is shown here as a consequence of ignorance, and we hear that the contract on work and employment contracts is the same, just a different timetable of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26926	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26927	Thank you. We have submitted the amendment to Article 7. The draft law, to which the motioner intervenes in Article 7 of the Law and by making some amendments in paragraph 1 and adding a new position 2. We have suggested that Article 7 be deleted and such an amendment is not our view that we want to obstruct and that we just want the proposal to be disqualified in some way. On the contrary, we have proposed this because we believe that the solution from the current law is better than the solutions proposed by these amendments and additions. In fact, we suggest that we delete this member for two reasons. In the first part of the proposal, the applicant abolished the right to cash compensation not only for persons who have obtained compensation or compensation in excess of the law of a certain severance in the privatisation process, but for all persons declared a technological surplus. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current circumstances are significantly different from the circumstances that existed at the time of the adoption of the law that is now being amended. In the meantime, the Labour Act was amended and the amount of severance was reduced by law, while special laws were reduced and earnings, which further affected the amounts of the severance, as the basis for the calculation was reduced. So, if such a solution were accepted, technical surpluses would be left without the right to cash compensation when they received severances that were significantly less than they would have been, for example, a year ago, before those changes. The second part of the member, which the proposing offers, is a burden on the legal text. The proposer, in his explanation, states that this solution is envisioned to prevent abuses in relation to monetary fees. If abuse exists, their eradication is a matter of inspection or judicial authorities, and there is no need to additionally burden this text of the law. In addition, regardless of the objective that the promoter has in mind, this formulation represents an additional limitation of the rights of the unemployed as well. The government did not accept the amendment, noting that the proposed legal solution is intended to prevent abuse of rights. We cannot accept this view of the Secretary-General for the reasons which we have already stated in the light of the amendments and because the Proposer has abolished the right to cash compensation, not only for persons in the privatisation process, but for all persons declared to be technologically excess by the Government, who have made compensation or compensation in excess of the law of a certain severance. I would like to remind myself that the severance is intended to allow people to stay out of work at the moment, that is, when their working relationship stops, that they can manage and survive a certain period. The fee they receive when they run out of work has another purpose to give him basic existence, him and his family, and often from the severance, people start some new jobs and private businesses and spend it all on it. There are still all the reasons I cited in the amendment's explanation, so I suggest you reconsider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26928	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26929	President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, MPs, I will again briefly discuss this amendment, given that it has been the subject of my discussion in principle debate. I think this time the government is right about what she wanted and how it was regulated. Here, what's this about? It is the right to cash compensation in the event of termination of a working relationship, Article 67, i.e. this is the change in Article 7. one part, and one part is complemented. I think we made it clear last time who doesn't have the right to cash. It's a provision that stands in the current law. Second, that doesn't change. So there's no limit to the right to cash compensation. What else is characteristic of this current Employment Act? In addition to having no right to compensation, one who has received an severance payment greater than anticipated by the Labour Act, one who has left his post willingly, which is not disputed. There is still a need to bear in mind a member of the 66th valid Employment Act, and he says that the right to cash compensation comes after 12 months of continuous work and 18 months with interruptions. So you should take care of one member and the other. If someone does not already have the right to cash compensation, then Article 66 must apply, as is applied to all others, that he must have 12 months and 18 months with interruptions. Since it appeared in practice that, in one way, the Volcheban had established a working relationship for a few days, and only with a view to achieving the right to cash compensation, it would not be fair to those who have a completely legal right to cash compensation. The government wanted here, I think it's right, to prevent and say – it's gaining the right to money aid it doesn't have now, when it turns 12 months uninterrupted or 18 months with interruptions, as well as for all others that apply. That's why I think the goal here is to make this supplement impossible, to prevent it. Here, in fact, it prevents the abuse of that right, and for that reason, I think the government is absolutely right not to accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26930	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26931	If, as a result of technological, economic or organisational changes, the need to carry out a specific job or to reduce the volume of work, in accordance with the law, other than persons who, in accordance with the Government's decision on the establishment of a programme for the resolution of surpluses of employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, have been defined voluntarily for monetary compensation or special cash compensation at a higher amount than the amount of the severance determined by the Labour Act. The 2009 law. Nothing's changed. We just added a precise provision - 12 months. Nothing more. So, very precisely according to the law, which was obviously not read in this Assembly, and voted for it, it was envisaged that persons who received a more severance than was provided for by the Labour Act in 2009, could not exercise the right to compensation for unemployment as soon as they did. We haven't changed anything. We just specify – 12 months, because we saw in practice that we have people who get severance, work between two – six days, break the contract, willingly break the contract, no matter what he's guilty of breaking the contract, he comes to the National Service and says – please pay me 12 months' salary. It's nice to have the state's billions. Why not? We predicted 16 billion in severances, let's go another 16 billion for the National Employment Service. Okay, great sounds, we'll be popular, everyone's gonna be happy, but that's not possible, it's just not possible. No rights have been abolished. This reminds me very much of the debate on the Labour Act, where some people here were afraid that mass layoffs would begin as soon as we passed the Labour Act. And so this, none of the rights are denied. One who has received an severance charge greater than the Labour Act cannot come to the National Service without working for 12 months. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26932	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours for the purpose of bringing an act from the agenda of this session. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26933	Thank you, Madam President. This article refers to the establishment of a basis for determining the amount of cash compensation. The amendment suggested that the average earnings for the period for the base-based calculation over the last six months, because we believe that the period of 12 months is too long. Furthermore, the amendment proposes an amendment to determine the basis for the amount of cash compensation when it comes to the unemployed for whom the employer did not make contributions, nor did he file a tax application. In fact, we believe that the solution offered by the promoter is that the unemployed is double damaged. First by the employer and then by the state, and of course, not by his own fault. The employer who has not accounted for, and thus has not yet paid the contributions, still has a debt to the State, and the State will at some point also make the income, i.e. make it. There is no reason why an unconscious employer does not settle obligations, the unemployed suffers consequences. So it's possible, for example. that someone had received a salary of 60,000 dinars, that he did not know that the employer did not settle the obligation, that he had lost his job and that now he could not make adequate compensation, but would receive the minimum amount, and that the objective basis was significantly higher. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments, the government calls for it to actually protect the rights of the unemployed from unconscious employers, stating that there are legal gaps that led the National Employment Service to obtain judicial disputes against the unemployed, and that the situation is now clearly normalised by the draft law. Of course, in an explanation, the government does not engage in a concrete assessment of our amendments, so I will repeat it once again – I think the promoter has made a certain shift, however, it will hardly damage certain categories of employees with its solution. I think the disputed length of the period on which the average profit is calculated, with the existing six, is extended to 12 months. And finally, I think the biggest problem in this last part of our amendment is that it's a serious problem that it's taken as a basis for the reckoning, when the unemployed person of the employer didn't pay the profits and pay the taxes. I think the proposer in this situation predicts that the cash compensation will be paid at the lowest. So, as a basis, it takes a minimum profit, not what was a real income for an unemployed person. He's unemployed, I repeat, double damaged. First by the employer and then by the state and without his own guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26934	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26935	Just for a little while. So, we've regulated the legal gap with these and protected the worker. So far, if nothing has been paid, if nothing is paid to the worker, it was not foreseen what he would get. He couldn't get anything. Nothing's been paid, and it's over. Now we've predicted he'll get at least a minimum. I'm sorry, for us, what's been paid is appropriate. You and I can make a contract, in which I pay you 500,000 dinars, that's your contract with me, and I haven't paid you a single contribution and you'll come to the National Service and say it, but it says 500,000 dinars to me here, and now I have to pay what you have agreed there and nothing is paid to the state. It's not possible. I say again, it's good-looking, it sounds good, but the state can't take responsibility for the whole process, for everything that happens in work and everything that happens in working relationships. It's just not possible. This way, at least we've regulated one legal void and protected the worker. You and other ways to find out whether something is being paid or not. You can check it out. For example, the central register, so you can check through the PIO. So there's a way to make sure you get paid. It's not just the responsibility of the state, it's the responsibility of the workers to make sure he's getting paid something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26936	Thank you. Article 9 of the amendment is subject to the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26937	The amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26938	Thank you. The amendment thus becomes an integral part of the draft law, as well as an amendment of the Committee to Article 6. It's a bill of law. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26939	I thank you, Madam President, and the chairman now, we have not been able to get acquainted with the amendment of the Committee, but I will explain the amendment that we have submitted. Namely, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposal, which the proposaler intervenes on Article 70, provides that Article 3 is to be added after Article 2 and then quotes the whole point 3. We, with our amendment, have only proposed to reshape item 2, so that the money fee of item 1 of this article cannot be higher than 160% or less than 80% of the minimum earnings, which are determined on the basis of the minimum cost of work, established in accordance with the labour rules, for which payment is made on the basis of the number of working hours, for which the payment of the cash compensation is made. The amendment provides for a solution that is more methodologically and legally correct than the proposal given in the draft law, as it avoids regulation of the same issue in two different attitudes We have united it in one position, by reshaping Article 2. The government rejected the amendment by citing already established practice that the proposed solution proposed by the proposer was more comprehensive and nothing more. With the amendment, we have offered one solution, normative and linguistically correct, more legal writing and adoption of amendments, the same question would not be regulated in two different attitudes, and in this way we would avoid problems in interpretation and application of the law in practice, but obviously the Ministry and the Proposer did not have the will to accept this linguistic and legal transformation, but we will get to know the amendment that the Committee has made, so we will see if we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26940	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26941	Exactly, to avoid any false interpretations and any possibility of an organ not understanding what is said, so we have explained this very very much, this particular member and accepted, among other things, the amendment. Because of the, I can say, language failure of the 2009 legislator, we have lost 271 million dinars in the past two years alone. That's because we didn't have this definition. We didn't have any cash compensation. Now, because of that word -- cash compensation, for two words -- cash compensation, and because we haven't regulated how hours count, all months are the same, as they're not the same, so we've lost only over the past two years 271 million dinars. If you knew how to do this, you heard from a lawyer and said, "There's a list, the way it comes to the list is also very problematic." We have filed criminal charges for the people we believe that these lists were unauthorized and distributed, then a lawyer comes in and says, finds you on the list, invites you and says if you know you have the right to do so, you say – so I don't know, he says – you don't have any expenses, let me represent you, otherwise the value of disputes between 100 dinars, 1000 dinars, how when, but when you sue the state for thousands of such disputes, and when you do so, what you would say, the law of large numbers, then you get to the point that users, conditionally said, are damaged because of this irregularity, are paid for about 101 million dinars, but for judicial costs and lawyers is allocated 170 million dinars. In order for that to never happen again, we have brought these changes and specified in this way that it will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26942	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Blažje Bradić together. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26943	Thank you, Madam President. This article refers to the fees paid to the unemployed. The promoter here provided for the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of pension rights based on the insurance training that the unemployed demonstrates by an individual act of the pension and disability insurance organisation. Thus, it is possible, already in the existing law, to compensate the unemployed for 24 months, if the unemployed until the first conditions for the achievement of pension rights are met in accordance with pension and disability insurance rules are missing up to two years. I've read the wording given by the promoter. We have tried to provide, among other things, for this amendment to provide for the right of those who perform, to supplement the proposal's solution by predicting how it is demonstrated that the conditions of age are met, and we believe that it is essential that those who have the right to use this fee should bear with them, i.e. having a personal correction, i.e. a copy of the birth certificate. We get the answer, it doesn't stand in this article of the law, we get a response from the government, and I don't want to read the full answer, the last sentence says – unemployed with a request for a right to cash compensation besides other documentation – it certainly applies to insight and personal correction in accordance with the law. I don't think it was too much to adopt this proposal, or this amendment of ours, but since the promoter has decided to reject it, I have nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26944	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Ivana Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26945	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Article 75, which you have changed with your proposal, defines under which conditions the payment of the fine is suspended. The article says very precisely that it is suspended due to the duration of the contract to carry out temporary and occasional transactions. It is a member who is already defined by a law that is in force, then, it is suspended during service or military service and that is a good definition, staying abroad when a person is staying for a certain job or when it is referred to work, therefore, and that is a good definition. What you are changing is that in paragraph 3 in addition to maintaining the prison sentence, you are suspending the payment of cash compensation to the persons who are posted or are on support, or the exact definition is to add words – the duration of detention. So, you're suspending the fee to the persons who are in custody. We consulted lawyers, lawyers. They think so, and we supported it, that this definition is not correct from the angle of conjecture of innocence and that every person is innocent until proven otherwise. This is Article 3. The CAP, i.e. the Criminal Procedure Act. We also think, or it is defined that the Labour Act does not know, there is no detention as a reason for the rest of rights and obligations, and we think that by eradicating this amendment, this article is better and I think that by adopting this amendment, the law itself is getting better. Of course it's getting better in terms of a more correct view from the angle of presummation of innocence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26946	On Article 11 of the amendment are together... Excuse me, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26947	Just for a little while. Even under the existing law, you have, among other things, certain safety measures. That would be, for example. Whether she's a nag, popular, or it'd be a mandatory treatment measure for drug abuse, alcoholism or something. What's the difference? Both are measures, and in one time and another, no adequate compensation is paid because you are not there. Of course, when you run out of detention or you run out of safety, you continue to receive your right after that, you don't have to prove it again. But as you can see in the past, security measures have been made. There's no difference between said security measures and detention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26948	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26949	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The motioner intervenes on Article 75, where he predicts that, in point 3 of point 1 after the words - prisons are added words - the duration of detention. We have suggested that this Article 11 be changed and that -In Article 75, paragraph 1 after point 3 is added a new point 4 which is read – the length of detention. Incarceration is not a criminal penalty which, criminal sanctions are otherwise prescribed by the Criminal Code, or norms of material criminal law. The detention has been established by the procedural law and is one of the measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. Therefore, detention is not a sanction consisting of deprivement of freedom and which is pronounced a criminally responsible criminal offence, but rather a measure that is determined according to the person to whom the proceedings are being conducted, whose responsibilities will only be decided, and in that sense cannot be placed as a basis for the peace of law based on unemployment between sanctions. The Government rejected this amendment on the grounds that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 14 and that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the decision to suspend the payment of the cash compensation during which the unemployment rights rest, as one of the reasons for suspending the payment of the cash compensation, should also be provided for. We note that the suspension of the right to cash compensation is not only in the case of criminal sanctions, but also in other justified cases, such as safety measures, educational and protective measures. Also, payment of cash compensation continues for the end of legitimate reasons. We ask – why, then, did the Proposer reject the amendment and not explain in the explanation why the amendment refuses, but points to an explanation given in addition to another amendment that is not the same content and does not have the same meaning? Our amendment is not to delete this solution, but to predict it as a special point because it cannot be in the same place with criminal sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26950	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26951	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by rejecting this amendment, the Government shows how it treats citizens. What did I suggest? Since you have defined in this Article 80, it is a new provision, that the unemployed who has been paid a cash refund to whom he has not had the right to repay the amount received to the national service, I have added a new position that says – if the national service pays by mistake a smaller amount to the unemployed that it is obliged to pay the difference with the legal interest and then the government, or you, Mr. Minister, calls on the unemployed to take advantage of the general administrative procedure. Why does the national service not take advantage of the general administrative procedure but must only do so by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who is damaged? Why can't the legal proposal define that he's damaged and that the national service needs to pay him the money he owes and which he legally belongs to? Indeed, an explanation is incomprehensible, but given the government's policy where everyone should save both citizens and where it saves on the weakest, on women, on pregnant women, on maternity leave, on pensioners, that no one other than the government can have any privilege, that only the government does not have to save and, of course, the favorite foreign investors, then it is quite clear why in this way the legal provisions that more than symbolically show your relationship with any unemployed citizen in this country are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26952	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26953	Thank you. Of course there is no valid reason to accept this amendment. What I want to stress is that the proposer of this law, the government, or the competent ministry, and how they make sure that budgets are legally used. How do they take care of that? By saying to Article 80a - an unemployed person who has been paid a fine he had no right to, he is obliged to return the amounts received to the National Service. Why is the proposer of this member of the law, or government, the competent ministry right? Because an unemployed person in the process of exercising the right to cash compensation by the National Employment Service in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act receives a solution in which there is also a lesson on the legal remedy, but it is also an obligation for a person who is granted a payment of a cash compensation to be obliged to make any change in the matter and to report to the National Employment Service within 15 days. So, the beneficiary of the right to cash compensation, an unemployed person, in case he is not satisfied with the National Employment Service's solution, has the right to appeal to the competent ministry. If he is not satisfied by that appeal, he has the right to initiate an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court. Of course, there won't be any payment here for solutions that aren't justifiable. Exactly, the National Employment Service, based on a judicial and final solution, is charging the claim, means that the unemployed person has used all the legal means. Another, unemployed person who illegally received a refund, of course, has the right to make that decision. Therefore, the proposed member of the law is both adequate and legal in order to protect the legality, legitimate business of the National Employment Service and the legal spending of budgetary resources, as well as the legal relationship between those who receive a cash compensation to change all time and time the application to the National Service will not come into the execution situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26954	No one spoke to you directly. You're entitled to the amendment one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26955	I didn't really understand what the previous speaker wanted to say, the pay phone, I apologize. If it can be said that the unemployed is obliged, if so, he had no right, and he was in charge he certainly entered the offence and could be prosecuted by the National Service. Then why can't an unemployed person protect himself through a new provision of law in the event of a national service error? I'm just asking, what's the difference? Why isn't there a parallel in that case? There is also the possibility of the National Service pressing charges against an unemployed person who has misused his right. Why does only a citizen have to write complaints and address court cases and where does he get the money for it? Why couldn't the National Service do that if he didn't act in accordance with the law unemployed and misused his position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26956	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26957	As he has so far sued the National Service and won 270 million, he can still sue her. As the National Service can press charges. In addition, an administrative procedure is being initiated against the National Service's solutions, so it is not possible to dispute that it is not possible. But, let's say, the Labour Act is regulated and the responsibility of workers, so there are also adequate sanctions for unwitting work, abuse of position, etc. The National Service's internal acts also provide responsibility for workers who unwittingly give more or less. So, as there are sanctions and I will personally insist, I am sure that I also have the support of the National Service, that it is strictly taken into account in such cases whose responsibility is, in fact, to the extent that it is the responsibility of NSZ workers, to which some other responsibilities are involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26958	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26959	Thank you, Madam President. This Member shall, in particular, deal with the subject of a special record maintained by the NSZ, so that it is then stated that special records are kept on a foreign person and a stateless person, a person whose rights lie on the basis of unemployment, etc., by proposing that the registration be kept on a person temporarily prevented from working pursuant to other justified reasons in accordance with the General Act of the NSZ. We have provided for an amendment to this proposal, so that instead of saying "in accordance with other justified reasons in accordance with the General Act of the National Service", we have replaced the words "in accordance with the rules in the field of work or other regulations governing the absence from work". We believe that the record of persons temporarily prevented from working can be kept only in relation to those cases, i.e. persons who are prevented from working on one of the grounds set out in either the Labour Act or any other regulation that regulates this matter. The formulation offered by the legislator actually foresees keeping records of persons temporarily prevented from working for one of the reasons that determines the NSZ by its act, which we think is inadmissible. In an explanation with the refusal of our amendment, the Proposer says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary to enable more detailed arrangements on how to keep a special record by means of the General Act of the NSZ. In practice, other justified cases occur often when unemployed persons are temporarily prevented from working, such as family care, natural disasters and others. We think that our formulation from the point of view of the writing technique is better than the one offered by the promoter, and the term we have proposed means "other regulations that regulate absence from work" can also cover NSZ acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26960	Thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we are done with all the amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Use of Character Language You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. Reports of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the opinion of the Government and the amendments submitted, have been received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26961	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 1 in the sense that in Article 1 after the wording ‘the way in which the sign language service is used’, the words ‘the establishment of a register of sign language interpreters’ are added. Otherwise, Article 1 covers the subject matter of the Law and writes what is regulated by this Bill proposal, so we have provided for the provision and establishment of a register of sign language interpreters. We believe that it is necessary by this law to establish a unique register of sign language interpreters, so that the right to use sign language, when done through interpreters, is achieved in the best possible way and by qualified persons. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason why Article 1. The proposal for a law in a clear and unequivocal manner provides a brief content of the subject-matter of the arrangements, as well as the introduction of a register of sign language interpreters by the proposed amendment, although Article 11 of Article 3 provides that the Alliance, which deals with the protection of deaf persons with disabilities, through which the right to use sign language interpreter services, provides the availability of data on sign language interpreters and the area in which those interpreters provide a service, i.e. the possibility of hiring interpreters for sign language. In terms of the above, there is no need to form and a special register that would practically contain the same data that will already be on the Internet presentation of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia. So, doubling business without effect. We disagree with the government's response. We believe that the subject matter of the law, as defined by the Proposer, is incomplete and that it is necessary in particular to indicate that the subject of the law and the establishment of the register of sign language interpreters is, in particular, that we have provided for subsequent amendments that the register is established and run by the Ministry, not the Alliance which is the Association of Citizens. Since deaf people use sign language as their natural language through interpreters, it is necessary to specifically regulate the way this register is handled and other issues related to sign language interpreters. In particular, the Minister's opening statement should be taken into account in the principle debate, which stated that the sign language interpreter was introduced as a profession by this law. As long as it is necessary to regulate the records of the interpreters legally, it should also be an extended subject matter of this law, i.e. to provide for the introduction of a register. So I suggest you reconsider this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26962	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26963	You have a database on interpreters and sign language run by the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia. In court, there is a special record for all court interpreters, as well as for the interpretation of sign language. Once we have perfected the process of issuing licenses for sign language interpreters, it will also lead to education. In the first place, the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf is a representative, reference organization that has been doing these jobs for many years and is doing them well. There's really no reason to complicate anything in any way. Things are very clear, court interpreters run the court, and the database is run by the Alliance, because deaf and deaf persons will be held for the service of the interpreters and addressed to the Alliance, so it is logical that the Alliance will also be the one who has such data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26964	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26965	Thank you, Madam President. Article 2, which we have submitted to the amendment, refers to basic principles, and we believe that the definition given in the proposal is incomplete, and we have provided that at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted, and that the words are added: “Because of their equal involvement in the living and working environment, as well as all forms of social life with equal rights and conditions, and with equal opportunities such as those without hearing. ” The draft law lays down the principles of law that arise primarily from the Constitution, and we believe that it is necessary to specify more precisely the fundamental objective of the law through the formulation that the law provides conditions for the inclusion of deaf persons in the workplace and the environment, and that conditions of equal opportunities are created for those persons. Our amendment has been rejected, and the Government, in its argument, says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 2. The draft law refers to the principles of the Constitution relating to the enjoyment of human rights and the prohibition of discrimination, with reference to the provision of Article 21(4), which states that the Republic of Serbia may introduce specific measures, such as this regulation, in order to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. Given that constitutional principles are directly applicable, there is no need for opinions from the Constitution to be taken into law. The proposal states that constitutional principles are directly applied, and that for this reason there is no need for opinions to be taken by law. If that is the basis for the refusal of amendments, then even the proposing should not specify constitutional principles in Article 2. In addition, we note that there are no opinions in the Constitution, but the legal norms of the strongest legal force. The amendment required an extension of the principle just to put an accent on the equal involvement of deaf people in the workplace and the environment, as this should be the meaning of this law. I repeat, the meaning of this law. Such an extension of the basic principles of the law is not without reason, as it would later, in the application of the objective interpretation of the rules, in the event of doubt, significantly help in the exercise of the rights of deaf persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26966	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26967	Thank you. The amendment should certainly not be accepted for the very reason it is in Article 2. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language, in accordance with the methodology for making legal rules, in a member relating to the principles of just a potential achievement of full equality of persons with disabilities with other citizens. Also in Article 2, it comes from the basic constitutional principles, and of course it comes from the Constitution as the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia and from the principles relating to the enjoyment of human rights and the prohibition of discrimination. Of course, the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with the Constitution, has the right and the introduction of special measures, with those citizens or groups of citizens who, due to certain difficulties, cannot fully achieve equality with other citizens of Serbia. This particular measure stemming from the Constitution, Article 21(4), is also the adoption of this proposal for a law on the use of sign language.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26968	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26969	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing a very important law and today's amendment, as well as the law itself, are good at helping our citizens with hearing problems. I can tell professor otorinolaringology that I'm pleased that we have a chance to make a move in this area as well. I will take advantage of the opportunity while the minister is here that perhaps together with the Ministry of Health we are thinking about introducing a screening program to register hearing damage in newborn children, because it is something that would further include us in a club of developed and good European countries and would help many of our babies, i.e. Our youngsters have been registering hearing damage from the beginning, so that they can start with a cochlear implant installation programme that is being worked in Serbia at clinical centres in Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis and the successful hearing damage is being treated with these implants. So this is certainly a good opportunity to talk about this subject and they're good and they're good amendments. My suggestion and opportunity in the National Assembly, as an otorinolaringologist, to make an appeal and one initiative, is that Serbia should take advantage of the opportunity for you and Minister Loncar to take a look at our options. Our ORL centers are good, we have good doctors, but at the gynecology where children are born do screening programs, so if it's a risk pregnancy. We had a chance to do a period in Nis, so our apparatus broke down, registering children who were born a few days after birth, doing hearing examinations, and if there are damages, we have, so the Ministry of Health has a program for installing cochlear implants, so that allows normal development and hearing, and after that and speech. My initiative is to think about a period. It doesn't cost much, and that screening would be conducted in clinical centres, these four large clinical centres, and they would have the opportunity to register hearing damage to children to repair them by surgical intervention, so that not in years, when they can't develop hearing then they can't even speak and further disable them, practically, development into one normal person. Thank you very much. (Vesna Rakonjac, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26970	Thank you. He has the word of Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26971	Of course we should think about it. It's really not my resort or the area I understand myself in, so I can't give any dishes, but I can pass it on to Minister Lonchar, so let's see. Anyway, thanks for the initiative. As far as the concrete amendment is concerned, it is clear that the Constitution is above all, above all, the law, and that it is clear that its principles do not have to be transposed every time. There is no more legal protection than the Constitution, and this law comes from the Constitution. Just an apology. Yes, indeed, this is some kind of printing mistake. I'm surprised no one in the law ever noticed that. There is no need for the opinion of the Constitution, I mean, complete nonsense, so let's delete it: "the principles of the Constitution", instead of saying "thinking". I don't know how that got stolen. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26972	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vesna Rakonjic, I apologize. Just sign up for Vesna, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26973	Thank you, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Ministry's representatives, has been injured by Article 106(3). The previous speaker, I mean not the minister, but the esteemed colleague, did not talk about the amendment, or the subject. But I'm really glad he talked about what he was talking about. I support him the most. And I, as a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and a member of the Committee on Health and Family, think that we should make every effort and make this screening program, because it is very important to detect early hearing damage in children and wounds, practically, education and parents, prevention of these events, and later treatment that is much more effective in the earlier period because we know that such children have difficulty with speech. First of all, when a child takes a year, a year and a half already has a single fund of words, and he doesn't have one, and then the diagnosis of hearing damage is established, and then it can be very late and the cost of treatment is very high. I think this is a great initiative, and I think all the parliamentary groups will support this. Of course, in voting day, I won't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26974	What can I tell you, Vesna? So you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you didn't stick to the agenda, or the Rules of Procedure. But, well, I mean, I don't mind that much. A Vesna Rakonjac, from the city: I was the one who explained it. No, no, no, If you take a closer look, he was a clear member of 106, not keeping the agenda, but he shouldn't have explained himself anymore. But, okay, it doesn't matter. I'm just asking if you wanted to make a statement. No, I don't. Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, please. You have 35 seconds from the MP's group, two minutes from now, that's clear, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which otherwise prescribes definitions. We suggested that Article 3 paragraph 1 should be amended by saying: “A deaf person, in terms of the provisions of this law, is a person without hearing, a person with hearing damage, as well as a person with communication difficulties, who, due to functional damage, communication with speech is difficult or does not exist. “ Item 2 to change is to say: “The sign language is to communicate deaf persons, i.e. a natural means of communicating deaf persons, a visual language system with a specific setting, position, orientation and movement of hands and fingers, and a person’s mime. “ At the end of the sentence, paragraph 3 is deleted and the words are added: “It is written in the Register of Sign Language Interpreters. ” The amendment proposes more precise determination of the concept of a deaf person, closer to defining that a deaf person involves a person without hearing or hearing damage, but also any other person whose communication is difficult or not, and in that sense there is a person who is recognised the right to use sign language. So it can be a person who doesn't have it, without hearing it. We believe that the choice given by the promoter is not acceptable, since the notion of a deaf person determines that it is a person who, because of certain obstacles, is limited in full or equal participation in social life. Therefore, according to the promoter, a person must first be limited to participation in order to be considered a deaf person who can use the right of this law. The point of this law is just the opposite, that it does not come into a situation at all to be limited in participation in social life because of certain interferences. The amendment proposes a change of attitude 2. The definition proposed by the amendment is more adequate, more precise and clearer, in terms of defining the concepts of laws in general. The bill contains an insufficiently clear and insufficient definition of sign language.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26976	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26977	The government has rejected the amendments, and we remain in favour of our reasons for the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26978	Mrs. Comic, you only have a minute. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Time of authorised representative. You're an authorised representative? We didn't get here. I mean, you know that if we didn't get written that you're an authorised representative, how can I give you my word? Come on, use two minutes. Here, I'm on my own responsibility. You have a minute, I'll give you another minute. Please comment on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26979	Thank you, but no thanks. I'm the one holding the procedure. So, please check with the service whether or not I am an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and then you will take this away from me from the time I have the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26980	We'll check it out and then we'll give it to you later. He has the word of Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26981	The definition we're talking about is the widest possible and it's been brought in agreement with the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf. We wanted to cover as much space as possible. The abuses are possible, but I have to admit I can't imagine anyone looking for an interpreter's service without having a hearing problem. It's really hard for me to imagine, but good. You know how, if everything was okay and the position of deaf and deaf people was good and everything was right, so they wouldn't be giving me this law. We pass this law because the position of the deaf and the deaf is not good enough and because it is not precise how society should help them and how society should serve them. That's why we passed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26982	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Comic, will you use this minute? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26983	Thank you. An amendment relating to Article 3 which, otherwise, concerns the definitions of deaf persons, sign language and sign language interpreters, should not be accepted for the following reason. The definition of a deaf person in Article 3 has been accepted on the basis of an internationally accepted social model of a deaf person. The accent in this definition of deaf person is on the person, and not on the damage, as the amendment promoter points out, to damage, or without hearing. So, the accent is on a person who, due to information, communication and other obstacles, is limited in full and equal participation in social life. I must stress that this definition of a deaf person except for the active participation of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf, and otherwise, the deaf and the deaf are about 50,000 and the local associations of the deaf and the deaf that the Alliance is gathering, there are 44 who participated in the creation of this law, there are also colleges, among those colleges there is also a college for special education and rehabilitation that schools in training, in fact achieves academic calling and dealing with deaf and deaf people of all ages. These are, of course, surdolologists, academic titles that are being obtained at this university. I also want to point out that this definition is very important. It is a very important language to be used in this Bill on the Use of Sign Language. So, the language that's legal in this case should bring down the risk of marginalization of these people, and the disabled, we all know that they're at risk of marginalization, to the least possible extent. It's just that the legislator of the law does this definition of a deaf person. As for the sign language itself, its definition is absolutely in line with what the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Association thinks, and that is the natural form of communication of deaf persons. It is their native language or as deaf and deaf people often speak, sign language is their spare ear. As for sign language interpreters, I would like to stress that this bill first introduces the title of sign language interpreters. It will be introduced into the nomenclature of occupation and interpretation of sign language, of course, precisely and accurately defined in Article 11(3) of the said law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26984	The names above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have suggested changing the title above Article 5 and so far is the title, so the suggestion is to be – learning sign language. We have suggested that the name be changed and stand – learning adults by sign language. We have been more precise in the amendment to Article 5, and it is in fact the work of the previous member and is arranged only in the context of adults and adult education. We feel it is necessary to make a clear distinction between situations where adults learn sign language and when deaf children learn sign language within the educational system and thus exercise their right to learn and use sign language. This is particularly important when it comes to learning adults sign language involves learning not only deaf people but also persons who need this knowledge to communicate with deaf people, e.g. parents, relatives of a deaf child as well as persons who in this way become interpreters for sign language. So this is about learning adults, and nowhere in the law is the issue of learning children sign language. The amendment is set as an imperative, not as an opportunity for the programme to be tailored to the needs and possibilities of deaf people, regardless of whether the language is taught by deaf people or by those who are not. The sign language learning program must be such that those who adopt knowledge adopt them in a way that will ensure communication with deaf people. Therefore, in setting up a programme, communication needs and communication opportunities are deaf people, because they are always one of the parties to communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26986	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26987	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the representatives of the ministry, I must immediately deny and explain why this amendment is unacceptable. In Article 9(2), the educational and educational work referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be carried out on the basis of an assessment of the need to provide additional educational, health and social support to the Interresor Commission through a programme of education and education of children. Then, i.e. the school program and the individual educational programme for learning according to the law. So, with the Law of Education where we have the inclusive inclusion of children in a regular school system. Therefore, it is explained in another law, and we do not need to repeat it now in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26988	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradic have submitted a joint amendment suggesting that the name of a new member and a new member of 5a be added after Article 5. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26989	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you have said, we have proposed to add the name of a new member and a new member of 5a, which reads, the name is – learning deaf children by sign language. Then goes the text of Article 5, all in line with the previous amendment explained by the colleague. Article 5 reads – Learning Deaf Children with Sign Language is organized and implemented in preschools, i.e. primary schools according to a specific programme that is adapted to the needs and possibilities of Deaf Children and which should be primarily provided for social development and training for further learning and socialization. The programme referred to in Article 1 shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for Education Affairs with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for the tasks of improving the position of persons with disabilities. We propose by amendment the introduction of a new Article 5a which represents a logical overall with Articles 4 and 5. Article 4(3) lays down the right of a deaf child to learn and use sign language, however, this right has not been given its workings in the way in which the right of adults to use sign language has been processed in the draft law. If a child’s right to learn and use sign language has already been established, it is necessary to establish by law that this right is realised in kindergarten, preschool or elementary school. In this way, multiple benefits are provided, the child learns sign language and is trained to continue to adopt knowledge, but also to communicate with its environment, thus achieving socialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26990	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 6 refers to the use of sign language interpreter services. The amendment, to a greater extent, guarantees the right to sign language through interpreters to a greater extent. The way the proposer formulated Article 6’s position in practice would lead to the fact that a deaf person is prevented from exercising his rights in the best way or by law-based interests, since the promoter predicted that a deaf person would not be able to use any other form of communication, for example, by reading lips or writing, or otherwise to exercise his right to then use the services of interpreters. So, according to the proposer's solution only if an official in the municipality, for example, is unable to understand the deaf person, or the deaf person of the officers, or only after they thought they understood each other, so it was established that the deaf person was not, for example, seeking a copy of the birth certificate of his child, and it was given to her because of her lack of understanding of her birth certificate, then the deaf person could seek an interpreter, because she had previously exhausted all kinds of communication. Apparently unsuccessful and probably annoying and wasting time. Our amendment stipulates that the deaf person always has the right to use interpreter services, and that this right does not diminish its right to try to agree on other forms of communication, so our amendment provides for a solution to which the deaf person is the one who chooses the kind of communication most appropriate to it to exercise his right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26992	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26993	Not in this way in the current legal solution that we have proposed does not in any way limit the right of deaf, deaf persons to seek an interpreter, but we have also put in place a provision not to be the first solution. You see, the very example you set is written and written and sought. It's like when you get a contract, let's say about work, you get a written contract on work, read it, but of course we predicted that if there was a need for an interpreter to be explained right then, these are still important norms in the conclusion of a working relationship or termination of a working relationship. This is just one norm that regulates exactly how it comes to that. I am again starting to assume that this right will not be abused, deaf and deaf people are not selfish people who will try to make an interpreter, it is not, I certainly do not expect it, but will use it in moderation when necessary. There are other means we'll be working on. We in Belgrade are now working intensively to establish a coll-center so that the smartphone and tablet can be used, having a continuous connection with interpreters at the coll-center. We're going to try to use technologies and other things, and what we're talking about here is just a norm that realizes that other means need to be used if there are no other means of communication, of course the interpreter is there. That's how we operate in 81 offices.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26994	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26995	Of course, the amendment should be rejected because Article 6 is precise and clearly related to the social integration of deaf and deaf persons, which is certainly one of the objectives of this bill, and what does that mean? This means the maximum use of the personal potential of deaf and deaf persons and, of course, by providing adequate support, i.e. by providing adequate support services in those situations where they, in accordance with their potentials, knowledge and skills, are unable to exercise any right or obligation. Therefore, in order to be adequate social integration, it is absolutely correct that what is in Article 6 that deaf person who is unable to use the services of interpreters as a form of support based on another form of communication by reading with lips, writing or otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26996	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the above members of the 8th and Article 8th Amendment, MP Slobodan Homen submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić have submitted a joint amendment suggesting that a new chapter III be added after article 10, the new title of the head and the new member 11-14. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, prof. de Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26997	Thank you. The text of the draft law in Article 14 states that the association is obliged to provide for the use of sign language interpreter services whenever the question is to exercise the right of a deaf person to use sign language service and language by the employer if it is available by means defined in accordance with the law for those purposes and in another position that the means for an interpreter's service for sign language referred to in Article 1 does not provide the employer. Our intention is to at least change the second position, that the means for an interpreter's service can be provided by an employer as much as possible because in both of these positions we are practically giving the right without any of them seeing what will be the source of funding for that right. In principle, we had information and a response from the minister that it was three million euros in the position the Republic is funding both at the level of local self-government and at various levels of government, and I think we should accept this amendment in order to leave the employer's freedom when the employer, for example, is someone from public affairs, so that he can provide means of interpretation for sign language. If there is no means, roughly interpreting, there can be no interpreters. I don't read it in either of these two attitudes, which is why I've asked a question of detailing where the money is for an interpreter, and I think we should open up the possibility that the employer can do it. The use of a sign letter and the way financial engagement can also be the subject of a joint agreement for the 2016 budget. If we've written down the rights, if we don't bring in a sublegal act and we don't bring in money positions to use those rights, then we're going to move very little on to the better quality of life of deaf, deaf and hearing impaired, which is absolutely no intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26998	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u26999	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues, I think the amendment is totally unacceptable because something that can and may not be, would just be exorcised in this way by employers, and as we know from the People of the People with Obesity, because I don't like to say deaf people, it's a little raving to me, they have their own means of funding. One way is funding with the republican budget, another way of funding is local self-government, the third way of funding is donations, legislation. Therefore, if they are so many human employers, so be it, let them pay these associations and then we will have enough resources and there will be both funds and interpreters. In this way we can only simply bring some confusion, because we know that often what can be interpreted from the sea happens in our laws and then we get into trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27000	Mrs. Comic, you have 16 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27001	Thank you. There is no argument since the bill states that the employer does not provide funds, so these colorful stories about legates and the rest, it is quite unserious on such a serious subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27002	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27003	I certainly think this is a very serious topic and it's not a funny topic. It is said here that he does not provide, but no one forbids him to donate funds if he knows that he employs a disabled person and directs those funds in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27004	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27005	Of course, the amendment should not be accepted for the simple reason that the focus of Article 10 is not an employer. The focus of Article 10 is to protect a deaf person by having the right to use sign language in the course of employment and work with employers is to continue to be stated - when talking about work, when concluding work contracts or cancelling work contracts and in other situations when it comes to the process of work. So these are all situations where a deaf person has the right to use sign language. Of course, we live in reality. The reality is that people with disabilities, there are still obstacles to their employment. The government's goal is to get people with disabilities and how quickly they get to the employer and get a quick job. For this very reason, the person with disabilities who came to work here was freed, that is, the employer does not bear the obligation to engage sign language interpreters, but, of course, in law, it is determined who provides a deaf person with an interpreter, which is an alliance, or association.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27006	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27007	Just for a little while, 'cause my colleagues already explained it really well. You know how, we can say that the best intention is to have it in every place, that the employer provides it, but what if a whole other thing happens? What if the employer is going to say because of that obligation - I am not going to hire a deaf and deaf person because it's a double cost to me, instead of one I'm going to hire two, it's not worth it? We don't want that. Deaf and deaf people are known as good workers, well hired, and there is no need for us to make these measures more difficult, instead of helping them with this measure. It is clearly foreseen in the law when an interpreter must be present. That's when a work contract is concluded or a work contract is terminated. So, at the most important moments, the interpreter must be there, and that is what the alliance is for, which is an important organization, and we are helping him because he is doing what he is doing. And what we're talking about already works in 81 local self-government. Also, this is very important and I speak to my friends in the alliance, the funding is provided for both next year and next year, and as the budget is to be made, so the funds will be in line with the needs and will increase where necessary and as long as necessary. But this funding level is secure and foreseen in the budget. Don't let anyone scare you, please. The state is right here to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27008	Member of the 15th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27009	We in this Article 22 have made a commitment to the Minister responsible for the affairs of promotion and protection of persons with disabilities to bring sublaws. We think this is necessary because this government, and the minister, is not to be trusted. This, dear gentlemen sitting upstairs at the gallery, is what the minister told you to really figure out with the reserve, because he doesn't keep his promises. His words are demagogy and are far from true. That's why I'm asking you to understand that you shouldn't trust Mr. Vulin. That is why we asked that sublegal acts be passed within 60 days, because I believe otherwise that this law will not be implemented, that the minister will avoid, as so far, implementing the law and that he will be at the expense of employees, such as 150 persons with disabilities, mothers, pregnant women and single mothers fired in NIS a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27010	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27011	Thank you. Article 107, dignity. The gravest is a violation of dignity just now. You let it go without warning when the previous speaker here mentioned demagogy. When we look at who here has the right to mention the word demagogue, is it the same ones whose party president, while he was president of the Republic, spoke of the global economic crisis, that this is actually a chance for Serbia, as the peak of demagogy. Now those here honor us for our demagogy. I really think you should have warned him, maybe even a warning to tell him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27012	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word demagogy cannot be considered a violation of the Parliament’s dignity. It's his right to see something. Whether I agree or you agree with what he said, that's another question. I disagree, but it's his right to see it that way. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It's your right to plead. (Alexander Markovic, from the place: No. So we won't plead. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27013	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues, I will only talk about the amendment. The time limit of 60 days of entry into force of this law is too short for a sublegal act to be passed for such an important and serious law. It is necessary to agree both with associations and with persons in need of adequate assistance in order to ensure that this sublegal act is valid. Why rush now if in the previous, let's say, 14 years of rule of the previous regime have not passed such a law? What makes you so concerned about cutting deadlines for the issue of sublegal acts? How they took care of disabled persons testified to the Hetherland Castle in New Vienna. I invite everyone to the gallery, as well as all MPs, to see what a concern looks like when representatives of the former regime do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27014	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27015	I was just wondering when someone would try to let a little hate and a little politics into all this. It was too much of an expert debate, so some of them couldn't get involved in the debate, so whoever said, let someone take a picture of us, maybe now is the time for television, someone will watch. This ministry has passed the law, and you haven't looked at it for 14 years, and we've brought it in a year, and we've passed the Law on the use of the guide dog, and no one else has thought to bring it, and we're going to pass the law on the associations of persons with disabilities, which you didn't think to bring. In the year that we've been saving on everything, we haven't saved on any social contributions, not on any disability, not on any disability association, not one single dinar. We're worried. The contract by which people from the company that once belonged to us were brought before us, sold it and put it where it is today. We didn't do it. So, don't transfer to us what you and you, who advocated the market economy, you have to know that the market is what it is, and that I can't order private, which is for me a private company, what it will do if it respects the law, and if it was under the old Labour Act, that brought people from the former regime before us, disabled people who, unfortunately, were fired, I tried to stop it, I couldn't, I would have left without severance, and now at least they got severance. It's not much, but it means infinitely more than was foreseen by earlier laws. I am taking this opportunity to thank all MPs for one constructive, fruitful, professional debate and to thank those who have shown that they have nothing to ask for in the expert debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27016	Mr. Veselinović, do you want the amendment? Please stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27017	Of course, as well as a colleague who called earlier. I'm talking about the amendment, just like my colleague used to say. So, of the 24 years of the post-socialist government, 24 years as there is a multi-party system in Serbia, the DS was seven years in power, and they were 17 years in power...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27018	Please, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27019	Let me just say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27020	Listen to me. Honor my request to speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27021	The Social Democratic Party and Social Democratic Party MPs support all the norms of this law that can contribute to the people they refer to. It's not a question of us supporting the norms and passing the law. It is disputed that we fear that this law will not be applied, and that is what is characteristic of this government – it proposes laws that are not then implemented. It's not true, it's true that NIS had no obligation to pay severance fees. Under the interstate agreement, Mr. Vulin, don't deceive the public, NIS had an obligation to pay the severance fees, and not as much as he paid, but much bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27022	The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27023	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's really absurd to use one of these topics, with the presence of distinguished guests, for political bickering and political points. Until this moment, I didn't know we were talking about energy and NIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27024	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27025	Now I don't understand whether you're boasting or complaining? You usually complain that the laws are bad, and now you complain not to apply them. I think the laws are good and the laws apply. This law is good and this law will apply, and just to help you, just a little bit in understanding the matter you're trying to talk about, this law already works in 81 local self-government, where we have the services of interpreters. Now we just want, in addition to many other things, to allow other local self-governments to engage in what it means to help our fellow citizens, our valuable and important part of our society – deaf and deaf.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27026	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, April 28, 2015, starting at 14.45 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-28-0.u27027	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall or that most of the total number of MPs are present and that we have the conditions to decide. I'm putting on a vote on the draft law on cableways for face transport in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – five abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 162 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 20th and Article 20th amendments, a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted the title above the members and Article 31 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above the members and member of the 40th amendment, a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia -- submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" has submitted to the title above the 50th and to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 63rd amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted, of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after article 66, was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the proposal for a law on lifts for face transport, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – eight abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on cableways for the transport of faces. I put to the vote the draft law on transport contracts in railway transport, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the article. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 22, 23, 34, 60, 70, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic; in Art. 4, 5, 7, 9, 12, 51, 56, 60, 70, 91, 100 and 105, together submitted by the MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Mr Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić; in art. 8, 10 and 115, submitted together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 33rd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new member of 116a be added after article 116a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the draft law on rail transport contracts in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote 10 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on transport contracts in railways. We move to a decision on the draft laws on the validation of international agreements. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted four of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China I am putting to the vote the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We are moving to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of the Border Procedure for the Railway Border Crossing of the Trans-TABANOVICE I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a border procedure for the Cross-Tabanovce border crossing, in general, please be clear. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted four of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Employment and Security Act for the case of unemployment to vote on the amendment law and amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – eight abstentions – there are no votes, two of the total 167 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 160 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia – Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – nine abstentions – there are none, none who did not vote, of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE USE OF CHARACTERISTICS After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on the use of sign language in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 162 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", tabled an amendment proposing that a new member and a new member of 5a be added after Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 8th and Article 8th Amendment, MP Slobodan Homen submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", tabled an amendment proposing that a new chapter III, a new head name and 11-14 be added after article 10. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs of the "Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia", submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill to the vote on the law on the use of sign language, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on the use of sign language. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chair of the People's Parliament, the infringement is considered to have been committed, may require that the National Assembly be declared without a search in the day of the vote. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 21 April 2015 at 10.55 p.m. pointed to a violation of Article 103(1) of Article 157(2) and Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, not 149 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 21 April 2015 at 13,44 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 141 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 22 April 2015 at 11.55 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 142 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 April 2015 at 12,00 hours, pointed to a violation of Articles 104 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 142 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 22 April 2015 at 13.20 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korać, at a session on 22 April 2015 at 13.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. My Rules of Procedure closes the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
