ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26533	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26534	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask today a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Finance. Namely, citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina, owners, i.e. users of agricultural, forest and construction land in previous days are unfortunately surprised when they have been handed through mail solutions from the Tax Administration to which the disposal fee for construction land for 2013 and agricultural, forest and construction land for 2014. The annual amount of the determined disposal fee for 2013 and 2014 shall be the obligation to pay within 15 days of the date of delivery of the solution. The solution shall be considered delivered at the expiry of 15 days from the date of submission of the mail to the delivery, as indicated in the solution. The payer for the disposal fee does not have the right to appeal. It can trigger an administrative dispute and bear the cost of forced payment. According to the provisions of the law, the disposal fee shall be paid for the regulation of the water regime of land in the melioration area, that is, the part of that area, by the disposal of excess water systems managed by a public water company, in particular by the Public Water Company "Vode Vojvodina" Novi Sad. I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration – which is why the solutions were not delivered on time, so in 2013 and 2014? Why is it not possible for those fees to be settled in the quarterly wars, how is it practice when it comes to the property tax? For what reason has the taxpayers been left with a period of only 15 days to pay the irrigation fee in full for two previous years, 2013 and 2014, with a note that they will have to pay a tight interest if they do not respect the deadline? Will there be another solution for 2015 with a fixed disposal fee for agricultural, forest and construction land for 2015 and when will this solution arrive? In the end, what I am interested in as a Member, will these funds that are not small be spent on purpose, given that we have witnessed in the past months, but also the years that fertile ornaments have been underwater, and many are still? It is not a small number of family households in the AP Vojvodina that have water in the basement rooms, courtyards and gardens for months. It is also unusual that all members of a single household who have cadastrian income receive identical solutions, which means that only one household pays two and more amounts for disposal, so that this amount now suddenly charged is an additional blow to the home budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26535	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26536	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Members, I ask my question to the Ministry of Culture and Information, that is, Minister Ivan Tasovac. The question concerns the Serbian Yearbook of the Mother of Serbs. The survival of Europe's oldest state-run magazine, a budget reduction, has been questioned. By the way, Mother of Serbia's Yearbook is the oldest literary magazine in Europe, and probably in the world, it was 181 years old, but this year it is threatening to shut down. The reasons are financial nature, and came from a decision by the Ministry of Culture to cut this year's budget for the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad. The resolution ministry has reduced funds by five million dinars, making this scientific and cultural institution ahead of the shut-down, especially the first Serbian Matice Yearbook, which I have already said, exits 181 years. In fact, every year, Matica received funds for employees' earnings and for 12 Letopis numbers in the year. The parent capital projects, those of national importance, such as the Serbian encyclopedia and the dictionary, are funded by the Ministry of Science. Employees of Matica and Matica were put in a position to say so between the existence of their families and national assets, Letopis, who founded and left Antonija Magaraševic in 1824. It also says in detail that Matice's Yearbook is two years older than the Serbian Mother. Employees are still talking about the fact that they haven't hired anyone in that facility for 20 years and that they're really acting reasonablely and in line with the exposure and the reforms that we're following right now. They sent multiple letters to the Ministry of Culture and received the answer that their funds for the release of the Serbian State's Mother of Serbia through a public competition, but they can only provide 600,000 dinars through the public competition, and the Yearbook at an annual level costs 2.3 million dinars. Through various projects, sponsors, the Serbian Mother's Yearbook cannot be financed. I ask the Ministry of Culture and Information, will it allow the release of the Yearbook, which celebrated 181 years, which has invaluable importance for Serbian and European culture? Does Minister Tasovac intend to resolve this awkward situation? Will the Ministry of Culture and Information really, by not providing finance, shut down the release of the Serbian Lady's Letopis? I pray that in as soon as possible I get an answer, because the Mayan number of the Serbian Mothers will certainly not come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26537	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26538	I would like to thank the esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday was Planet Earth Day. Yesterday, a lot of people took a picture of twisted sleeves, and today they brought back their ties, and we moved on like the old one. So, just yesterday was Planet Earth Day. Yesterday was Serbia's day, and today we're going back to the way things were. As so far, most of my issues concern environmental protection and environmental issues, since Serbia has been in constant environmental fear for two years now, that Serbia has been in a constant ecological disaster for two years and, unfortunately, no one has been doing anything about it and the situation is becoming more alarming and alarming. I'm sorry you didn't understand the need, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I'm sorry that you didn't understand what the Environment Fund is for, and I'm sorry that you didn't understand what the Chemical and Biocidal Resources Agency is for, and I'm sorry that you don't understand what environmental protection is for, what green economy is for, and why it's interesting and necessary to live in the 21st century, and not in the 19th century. The neoliberal capitalism is overcome, unfortunately you didn't realize it either. The economic situation in Serbia is catastrophic. I'm also sorry that you don't understand today, they'll probably understand in a few years, and for environmental protection it'll be too late as well as for repairing economic images in Serbia. The ecological situation in Obrenovac over the past few weeks has been quite alarming and after that doctrine of shocks since last year, life in constant fear of citizens and citizens of Obrenovac continues. The last few weeks since the start of the beautiful weather and the slightly stronger winds of Obrenovac, and above all the edge settlements and edge villages of Grabovac and the rest of the settlements are filled with ash. I have the results of certain hourly values that vary considerably above the limits allowed. But then, on 14 April, it ceases to work on the monitoring system in Grabovac, and after that, there is a blow-up of ash more intensely, and the monitoring system is not working because there is no money, because you have abolished the Environmental Environment Fund, because you do not return 40% of the environmental benefits to Obrenovac, but you have been spending three years without purpose and Obrenovac, which has been in constant fear for 40 years, because Serbia has had power to continue with environmental fear, continues with environmental problems, and this has increased enormously since the May floods in 2015. My questions concern the Minister of Mining and Energy - are we going to wait for 2013 and wait for the ecological disaster that has hit us, or are we going to do something preventive in Serbia's thermal power plant and electricity industry? For the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection – why does the monitoring system not work, why has the monitoring system in Serbia and Obrenovac been destroyed and the value of polluting matter in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is not measured? On the other hand, almost every day or every week we have one settlement, one city or one municipality with broken water. According to a report by the Institute of Public Health, Batut is the largest number of broken water samples in Banatski, Backo and Sremski district, and then in parts of Belgrade and the Borska area. The last case with Pancheva, and I also had a report from the Pancheva Public Institute, saying that the water in Pancheva was not correct during March, not just six days in April. Apparently, an interesting coalition in Pancheva, a coalition of silence and proof of position and opposition, so that strange coalition in Pancheva ignores the problems of the Pančevs. Here I refer to the question of the Ministry of Health above all and the Minister of Health – which is why in Serbia 50 water lines have broken water and it does nothing on this issue and, of course, for the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, why does nothing do to protect Serbia from environmental collapse?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26539	Thank you. Is anyone else answering to ask a question? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26540	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment from the area of water business carried out by the Public Water Management Company "Vode Vojvodina" as a measure of general interest which stands, it is the management of water resources, use and use of water, protection of water from pollution, protection from harmful water facts. Among other things, organisations and implementation of defences against floods, ice, maintenance of water factories, implementation of works and measures to improve the system, protection against harmful facts of water, acceptance and implementation of foreign waters and protection against erosion and floods. It protects us from the floods and charges for water contribution, while the flood protects us from droughts and charges for deforestation. However, every year, our agricultural producers in Vojvodina come across a tsunami of “Voda Vojvodina” that they feel in their pocket for unexecuted services whether “Voda Vojvodina” or 17 water companies in the area of the province that are indirectly managed by Pajtic Dr Bojan. As "Vode Vojvodina" was founded in 2002, for the past 13 years, there has always been little money from more sources of funding, a good share of which is allocated by agricultural producers, which block accounts and confiscation of property if they do not pay for someone's labour. To remind you, there are over two million and 100,000 acres in the AP Vojvodina. The channel system covers 20,000 and 700km and 155 pump stations. That every year they have worked 1,600km apart into 17 water companies each at 94km annually. Whether it could be done and whether only in that part and whether the channel network could have been better, cleaner, safer and more orderly, let the citizens themselves evaluate it. If the former agricultural secretary is AP Vojvodina, I have presented the fact that it is unsustainable that out of 20m euros of income, and not 20m than 35m per year, the salaries of employees go to six million, while the rest go to the maintenance of the canal network, and they continue to go on as old as 465 employees, which is much more than a founding without increasing the channel network and investment activities. Back several months later, complaints about the work of water companies and one on the work of the water company Shajkaška from Novi Sad, where 148 citizens of Kovilja signed a petition asking for a response when the work on cleaning the canals in lower Kovilj and Vinjerac would be completed, the town of Novi Sad neatly submitted a programme to improve the canal network and provided for this purpose in the area of the city over 19 million dinars. No insight and field control is allowed for members of the New Sad City Agriculture Department. The question is, how many kilometres of canal nets are cleaned every year by "Vode Vojvodina", i.e. companies entrusted with business, and how much money is invested in new investments? Why is there no clearly presented plan and programme for each municipality and local community on an annual basis that citizens have insight into the work and spending their money? I would like to ask the Ministry of Employment, Combat and Social Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior. For two days now, we have received dozens of calls, messages, from New Now MPs from troubled and concerned workers from RTV Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, the Government of the AP Vojvodina and the Capital Investment Authority. Namely, they are under obligation to go to a rally organised by the DS in Belgrade. People are scared for their jobs if they don't leave because they're verbally threatened by certain bosses from those institutions and businesses. Gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law guarantee everyone's right to religious and political determination, any citizen who is free to express his will. The concern of the people who spoke is certainly justified if we bear in mind that just a week ago, the top of the DS literally closed on 24 hours from the Indjia councillors at Andrevlje in a hotel against their will. I ask the Labour Inspectorate to determine the concerns of the blackmailed people from the RTV Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, the Government of the AP Vojvodina and the Capital Investment Authority whether it is a classical political mobilising and whether there are criminal acts of coercion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26541	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26542	Madam President, distinguished colleagues, just a few questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first question concerns Minister Sertic, Minister of Business. We have at least two or three times asked a question for employees of a company called "Interlemind" from Leskovec who have been trying to solve their problem for years after the former owner withdrew from the company without any notice and left the company. Meanwhile, a private contractor enters a factory based on trustees' demands and introduces private security. Otherwise, this example, like many others, is essentially a paradigm of what is happening today in Serbia with companies that have been in the privatisation process, where privatisation has been unsuccessful, where nothing has been done to revise unsuccessful privatisations and what is most important nobody has been responsible for criminal privatisations. So, my question to Minister Sertić – what will you do about the demands of "Interlemind" workers, how and how will you damage these workers, enable them to get back salaries, connect their work experience and pay for health and social and pension insurance? The issue also concerns hundreds of other factories in a similar situation in Serbia today. The second question is for the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic, does he also know how he thinks that together in the state of Serbia, we stand in the way of private perpetrators who, according to the information we get today in Serbia, are preying on property, especially in central and southern Serbia, and are taking away sometimes 500 dinar debt in contrast to 30,000 dinars with interest? So, today, the funding or confiscation of the property of Serbian citizens, who live in extreme poverty, and my question to the minister, is how, by changing the law, can amendments, by any instruction or sublegal act of the government, stop this practice of completely uncontrollably seizing citizens of Serbia, who cannot put an end to the end? The third question for the Minister of Culture Tasovac, applies, of course, to us, the disastrously unsuccessful harmful privatisation of "Avala Film". You know that citizens have stood up to defend this state-owned company, which is not just an enterprise, it's the heir and guardian of our cultural and film heritage. According to this privatisation act, which was officially completed yesterday, respected citizens, not only "Avala film" with its extremely valuable land in Belgrade, went for a fish tepsi, and went for the price of a tycoon property on Dedinj, but the entire foundation of this country's film treasure since 1945 is now made available without any clause that would make it impossible to sell these classics of the film industry, and the classics of our cultural heritage, which is part of our common and special identity. I think this is a complete scandal, that the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Privatisation Agency that I'm asking this question, is necessary to do something and to bring this disgrace to an end. The last question is for Minister Vulina, what happens to mothers, families, who are employed in the company "Zelnid", which were once in the rails dealing with the printing order, here is what the present colleagues know for sure, and other tickets, which several months, years, 20 months did not receive income? Their working relationship was fictitious, their booklets weren't certified, and of course, it was about four to five pregnant women who gave birth in the meantime that they got the automason of what was to be done. The company's account is blocked, privatisation has been attempted, privatisation has failed, machines have been sold out, people are left on the street and employees are asking the Serbian Parliament through us, and in what way, Mr. Vulin, Mr. or Mrs. Privatisation Agency Director and the others, who have been looking at these things for days, months, with one single answer that you have so far is retrospective, what happened and when the process started? I repeat, I ask you this on behalf of Serbian citizens who will not listen to your judicial assessments, that is what courts and prosecutors do, but ask what you will do in three years' time, to end this practice of destruction and what little Serbian economy remains, the destruction of vulnerable social groups, due to lack of payout and late payment for basic existence. This is just one example of people who have only received part of the revenue they are expected to receive under the "Zelnida". That would end this circle of government issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26543	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, Aleksandar Senic, Miroslav Markicevic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. We move to the next item of the agenda – PROPOSAL FOR TRANSPORT LICA According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in the particulars of items 1 and 2 of the agenda, I have called for the session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry; Nena Tomović, Assistant Minister for Construction, Transport and Infrastructure; Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister for Air Transport; Miroljub Jevtic, Special Advisor of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the proposal of the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26544	Thank you, Madam President. Respected ministerial, parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, the ZZS and Green Serbia have made efforts and made 36 amendments. This amendment refers to the meaning of certain terms used in the law in question. Point 26 states that the bill states that the controller is a legal person responsible for the safe operation of cableways. Later in Article 27, paragraph 2 is said – The manager is responsible for organising the work of cablers in accordance with this law. We have this attitude, item 26, and it is now said, our proposal is that it is like this – The driver of the cable is a legal person that organizes work, maintenance and control of the cableway in a way that ensures the operation of the cableway in a safe way. From all further provisions of the law, the safety of the works of the cable is not only one of the aspects of the operation of the controller, i.e. safety is just one of the objectives to be achieved with regard to the management of the cableway, and for these reasons we propose such an amendment definition. In response to the government, the amendment is said to be not accepted for reasons why the transformation is too high. We still stand on the fact that our formulation of this meaning, that is, this concept is better than what was given, and I ask you to reconsider and accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26545	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. So, I agree with the view that this is a formulation, or correction of what is defined by the original text of the 26th point, actually superfluous because safe work implies everything that is stated in your proposal. So, proper functioning but adequate security control and measures, so literally all that's written in multiple words is also contained in the formulation safe work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26547	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, Article 6 refers to the part that handles requirements and conditions for cablers, i.e. more specific requirements and conditions for construction and reconstruction and maintenance of cableways. The first position of Article 6 where we acted by amendment says – The cabler must be designed so that, with respect to the characteristics of the terrain and environment, atmospheric and meteorological conditions, all construction facilities and obstacles located near the track and the cableways work safely in a way that does not pollute the environment and endangers safety during work and maintenance or in the rescue and evacuation. We added that behind the word "safety" should stand, I repeat - With a change that does not pollute the environment and does not endanger the safety of people's lives and health, as well as property during work and maintenance or in rescue and evacuation. We are of the opinion that more precisely determines this first position in Article 6. The government has replied that the amendment is not accepted because the transformation is too high. I don't know what they're trying to say from the Ministry. I absolutely don't understand what they wanted, because I don't understand how the reformation is superfluous if the security aspect is determined more precisely. I mean, really, at least when you explain and refuse, this doesn't apply to you, Madam Minister, it's done by the service, at least do us the courtesy and explain why you don't accept something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26549	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26550	To clarify, to make it clear to everyone. There are a lot of proposed amendments from your parliamentary group to this law and in large part of these amendments they have just been rejected by reason that it is an excessive transformation. That's not done by the minister, not by any of the department's employees. That's what government legislation does. The government's legislation is a serious government body, with great experts sitting in exactly what I don't know or don't need to know and what you don't know or don't know enough. Therefore, I very much trust the government's legislation, so when the government's legislation says something like this, then I, as a minister and my associates, accept such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26551	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26552	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think that, although my colleague Bradic is one of the most active MPs, respecting his activity, respecting his always will to stay at the meetings, I always read his amendments carefully, and I am always willing to vote for his amendments before the amendments of some other MPs, but this time I think that the Government is right and that therefore I should not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26553	Thank you. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word has been given to MP Dejan Nikolic since the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26554	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have in principle said that we do not have any fundamental objections to this law. We think it's well written and we should support it and we'll vote for it. Hence, one amendment is simply a linguistic nature of change. We think this definition of us may be better and I think you should consider supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26555	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26556	And one and the other term, and that notion that already exists in the law, and that which you have given is grammatically and spellingly correct, so that when we have already put it, we have left it to us. That's the reason, and so we gave an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26557	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26558	Thank you. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS submitted to the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons, which has 67 members of the 36 amendments for the reason we felt that there was room and need to improve the quality of the bill. Of those 36, seven were adopted, which says that we did not write amendments just to have the number of amendments and that we would have reason to report, but because we were really trying really hard to make a quality impact on the bill. One of the amendments accepted is an amendment to Article 14, where we have proposed that item 1 be deleted, because item 1 is: the executive worker is a worker who performs the tasks directly involved in the operation of cableway traffic. The term "executive worker" is defined in Article 3 which regulates the concepts and we felt there was no need here to repeat the definition and duplicate it. For this reason, the amendment was justified and accepted. I think if seven were justified, that you might consider other amendments that were not accepted, because when we proposed recasting certain members, we stuck to the methodology for making the rules, and we didn't just do it to submit the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26559	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26560	Thank you. Article 17 refers to requirements and conditions for the operation of the device. We believe that this member is confusing, vague, contradictory, and that, it seems, is completely inadmissible. We think it's a greater shame that this way we need to standardize the conditions for the operation of the device than not to standardize it at all. Item one is incomprehensible. It is not clear in the position of which work manuals, and in particular the documentation relating to which it applies, while I consider the biggest problem in paragraph 3, in which it is repeated in a vague manner, and in particular we stress that Article 3 is in dissent with Article 60(3), point 3, which prescribes a criminal liability if it does not act in accordance with Article 3 and in which we repeat, prescribes the obligations of the cabler to the executive worker. Therefore, in Article 17(3), it is said – the driver is obliged to provide the executive worker responsible for the operation of the plant with adequate working means and must ensure that the executive worker is adequately qualified to carry out the tasks in question. While Article 60 of point 3 of Article 60 refers otherwise to fines and infringements for executive workers, it states that an executive worker will be punished if he does not have the appropriate working means and aids and is not adequately qualified to carry out the task in question in accordance with the provision of Article 17(3) of this Act. Therefore, Article 17 requires the controller to provide the executive worker with adequate means of working, to train him, and here, in Article 60 to which he is called at point 3, to Article 17, paragraph 3 that the executive worker will be punished by a fine of 20 to 50 000 unless he has the appropriate means of working, assistance, etc. It is simply amazing that Article 17 makes a commitment to the driver of the cableway, and this is where it is punished, i.e. a fine is proposed for executive workers unless it is available by appropriate means of work, assistance and has not been sufficiently educated. Please reconsider this proposal. I think this is a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26561	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26562	Just for a little while, two things. First of all, no member of the law is contrary to another member of the law, because he couldn't come to the first committee at all, and he couldn't pass the government. Secondly, the manager provides funds, and the executive worker can also forget these funds and therefore there are two different situations and two different terms you interpret or try to interpret in the same way. I think that's the kind of explanation you got. The law isn't here to educate, it's the law to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26563	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26564	Mr. Chairman, briefly, a comment on the proposal to delete Article 17 for incomprehensibility, which is listed as one of the reasons. I find that what is declared incomprehensible here is understandable and legible, above all, attitude one, which is potentially particularly problematic. In fact, it states that in the course of exploitation, but also everything that involves both maintenance and regular control, it is necessary to respect what is declared by the manufacturer. It's technically quite common practice, and something that's a good practice. So the method of exploitation, but everything else, and that applies to this corresponding documentation. For example, certain procedures for installations, certain procedures for replacement parts, how all those parts that are potentially necessary in the future are planned, how they are obtained, etc. All this is well declared by the manufacturer. If we want to make sure we use it the right way, then it should definitely be consistent with what the manufacturer has defined. Therefore, I would not agree with the proposal that the entire article 17 be deleted, on the contrary, I believe that it contains some good recommendations, certainly in the part in which it is said that there is a common roof framework for these jobs, that they will not be systematically brought by the manufacturer, but by someone who is above and who is old about this, which is the ministry. What I think there's room for a possible promotion is what concerns training. So, of course, if someone else, and not the worker himself, is supposed to worry about whether the worker is qualified or not, it makes sense that he's carrying the consequences if he's not left out. But what's the problem here? Which is probably in the broader context of the use of this tool and the means to be provided, and for what, the responsibility, if provided, is the bearings of the worker. Unfortunately, again, we are in a situation where, with a joint, grouped intervention proposal for several places in the same amendment, we are again, as in several situations so far, in a position that we cannot accept the proposal, because it contains several problematic consequences, just because of possibly one good contribution. I would call on this opportunity to submit several separate proposals for multiple individual interventions, so that we can separate what could possibly contribute to things that are definitely not standing, and I think at least four, five notes here are really not in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26565	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26566	I will benefit from the time of the authorised representative, i.e. the head of the parliamentary group. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister, you have used several legal terms and referred to the government's legislation. It's not called that body, but well, since you're not a lawyer, you can be forgiven. On the other hand, it is not the government's legislation that needs to give the last word when it comes to amendments or laws, because surely the people who work in that body are professional when it comes to legal profession and they certainly know the legal nomotechnics. However, apart from legal nomotechnics, the law should have its own useful value and the law can be extremely correct, excellent on the part of legal nomotechnics, and it can be in practice very bad, such as the laws in the last year adopted by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, harmful to the citizens of Serbia, according to their economic standards, by infrastructure, by other life-important issues of citizens, so do not appeal to government legislation, as you say, because the laws should live. You just said the laws should be applied, not educated. Dear Minister, the laws also have an educational or preventive character in a certain sense. It's one of the functions of the law. Therefore, criminal provisions in the law aim to deter the violation of norms, because, as you know, the norm has a disposition and sanctions, and in that sense the laws have in them both a guidance or a clue to which they should behave. The law also has its vision and mission, which the legislator, or legislator, has in mind when passing the law and is therefore required by the legislator, not so often, but we almost had in practice the National Assembly, an authentic interpretation by the National Assembly. So if a provision was unclear, the legislator knows what he wanted, but the legislator is not the government's legislation, it's the officials, or the government's administration, who knew what he wanted with that law to achieve. This law is very important to me, Minister, and to all those who live in Novi Sad and Vojvodina, because we expect that you in the coming period, since you are unable to build a bridge, the Želj Bridge in Novi Sad, will build in that area some cable for transporting people. For a year there have been works for your incompetence, so I ask you that, at least this law regarding the transport of cableways, do it right, so that people are not transported with risks, because there are some structures, truth be told, something is bitten by rust, but maybe they could serve as some future cableman, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26567	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26568	I've been waiting for you the last time, Mr. Veselinovic, when there was a debate about the law, to talk about the Iron, and I'm delighted you said that today. You gave me a fantastic clagworth that today I would say some information about Žečelj and thank the town of Novi Sad, which proved to be much bigger than the Regional Government, and what the District Government was supposed to do has accepted that the town of Novi Sad is working, so that no one in this country would suffer because the works are standing. The works stand or are done with reduced intensity, unfortunately, because of you, i.e. Because of the District Government. For me, the government of the past 10 years has been one party. In any case, the fact is that the bridge was destroyed in 1999, that nothing was done or very little was done or not enough, that people couldn't use the bridge. Last April, a new government was formed, whose first task was the issue of the Žeželjev Bridge, although the Serbian government and the Ministry of Transport, I recall, is not a contractual party at lot two. Contracting parties are the Region government and the city of Novi Sad. So much obstruction from this rural government, which, on the one hand, speaks and tells that it wants the bridge to exist, and in fact it all seems that there is no bridge, has led us to a situation where those who care about citizens, which is the city of Novi Sad and the Government of Serbia, agree and prepare a conclusion for the government. I believe that in today's cabinet session that conclusion will be made together with the performers and with all the essential elements, and that we will go after today to work the bridge. It's a big shame for those who run the province, because it showed that it's much more important for them to deal with politics than it is for them to deal with the bridge. As far as the cablemen and this law are concerned, I'll remind you, you've given 36 amendments, of which 21 amendments have been rejected because you've only asked for transformations. Also, seven amendments have been accepted. So when you're talking about bad laws, I'd like you to look at it first, when you're making such amendments, do you really want to help make the law better or just do it because you have hundreds of amendments that don't make that sense that they can improve the law. Another important thing, not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia. This government has passed a large number of very important laws in the previous period that no previous government could, could not, could not, did not know, whatever, bring. One of them I'm proud of is the Law on Planning and Construction. Well, therefore, when you say -- the bad laws that this government is making, I'd ask you to reconsider those formulas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26569	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, since the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would briefly return to the most controversial position of Article 17(3) and Article 60(3). It would be perfectly clear to me that Article 60 paragraph 1 of point 3 stands, otherwise the same member refers to penalties and violations for executive workers, it would be perfectly clear to me that point 3 states that a fine of 20 to 50,000 dinars punishes an executive worker, unless he uses funds and aids and refuses to train. However, I continue to argue that the attitude of Article 17, in which the same thing is being held, means - the controller is obliged to provide the executive worker responsible for the operation of the facility, i.e. to provide adequate work and training for the work on the cableways, and here the same thing is said here under the proposal of this law – that the executive worker will be punished if he does not have the appropriate working means. So someone's got to get him those work supplies. Someone's got to educate him. I just think it's necessary to think one more time that at least this 60th point 3 item should be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26571	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we have a dictionary for the race. I was just listening to a carefully defended amendment from a university professor, and I noticed that the word "necessary" was spoken with "needs". The word "necessary" does not change in faces. So, I think what I've been saying before, for some of our professors with these titles, that it's not proof, that it's evidence of calling but not knowledge. I had earlier advocated that some of our professors should be sent for a check, especially these older ones, because they even once used the term “moderately on the vase, ” instead of“ measured on the scale. ” So I believe that it's only necessary to run a check on certain professors to pass an entrance exam at the university where they teach. So, they don't have to finish it, but at least if they passed an entrance exam at the university where they teach and based on some grammar, I think it would be enough for our students today who are this way in the expansion of knowledge, etc. I also noticed that in that defence amendment the word "forgive" was also used, as - they would forgive. Looks like they imagined they were gods. Only God can forgive and I think my fellow MP has given himself the right to speak for God. It's been a while since they acted like God and thought God and beatings were in this country. I think they were lucky that they were regular, that we had them in a regular, quite regular way, regardless of the pressures etc. Changed power. Since they imagined they were God and a beating, she threatened a great danger for the people to take the beating and kill God in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26573	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26574	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another brief contribution to this misunderstanding we have. So we've heard that if we focus only on the possibility that the worker is directly responsible for whether he's trained, whether he's trained in this context or not, that it's therefore a kind of conflict in this text, then he's not. Why is it not, since what is then referred to, for the purpose of the conclusion, that the worker does not accept duties for which there is no means and for which no appropriate training has passed. Why do I say that? Because article 59 discusses the responsibility of the one who is obliged to provide him with these things. So this clearly refers to the worker himself, there's a way to put it in practice, so that the collations are legally non-existent. Although I personally believe that for this kind of training perhaps a worker should not be at all responsible, I suggest that there is no legal cohesion here. So as we would like to work on it, I call once again, let's make individual solutions if we have to focus on them through individual proposals. This certainly cannot end with the removal of an entire article 17 because everything else referred to as possibly wrong is far from wrong in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26575	Thank you. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: I answered the word. ) According to the previous amendment, Dr Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26576	You're not giving me a line for exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26577	All you can do is pick up the amendment, from the time of the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26578	I am obliged to speak about this amendment, I would like to respond to Minister Mihajlovic. Mrs. Mihajlovic, we didn't wait in the arranged place. You were waiting for me here, and if I remember correctly, six months ago, you told me you were meeting me at the Iron Bridge, is that correct? During further work, in 15 days. I was at the Iron Bridge the day before yesterday, you were gone, but unfortunately there were no papers. Rudja, the construction of the bridge has grown into grass, a year has passed as the works have been suspended and you didn't even mention the District Government then, or that someone else is to blame for you, Madam Minister, just because you didn't know you were organizing the job. (Zorana Mihajlovic, from the place: The province did not organise. ) Not true, "Serbian Railway" is the carrier of the business. She was supposed to organize the job. Why did you come up with a solution these days? Because the contractors will leave the construction site in a few days, pick up the machinery, exactly 27 this month. That's what they told you. You know what happened on April 27th? The bridge was destroyed after 20 bombings by NATO. That's what you're supposed to have in mind these years. Then the Novosadians lost the third bridge, the most important bridge for Novi Sad. Now you remember, when the MEPs visited that bridge and asked – what are you doing, you got money from European funds, 26m euros, some of the funds were provided by the province, some of it was secured by the city. You didn't invest a dime, you don't manage to organize a job. You say you work, you apply the laws, you make good laws. What the Germans say to you - we are leaving Serbia for an incompetent government because 28 days...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26579	Mr. Veselinović, is this an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26580	Yeah, just like the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26581	Madam Minister just answered your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26582	Twenty-eight days is the duration of the authorisation, and 280 days are the collection of documentation for that licence. That's why I think you should take care of the amendments you've submitted. Reformation in amendments means nothing more than that we want to fix the current law. That is why among the seven MPs whose amendments were most accepted are from our parliamentary group. We have submitted the largest number of amendments compared to the size of the parliamentary group, the largest number has been accepted. We do not tolerate the amendments in which we say - it is deleted or anything like that. We're putting up with the amendments because we read the law well. At best, maybe sometimes our solution isn't very good... (Zoran Babic, from the place: Pavicevic, critic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26583	Please, Mr. Granny, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26584	Maybe it's not good at times, but it takes someone on the side to assess. In the end, it'll show up in practice. Unfortunately, you have so far accepted, regardless of this number of amendments, an insufficient number of amendments, because existing laws are not applied, the type of Public Procurement Act, which does not work. That's why you're talking about the surplus, because you can't spend it. Of the five billion euros in loans withdrawn for infrastructure, only one billion and three hundred are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26585	Mr. Veselinović, please. I have to do it this way so you can hear what I'm saying. Don't talk about the amendment. Please return to the amendment. Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26586	Just a few important things. If by any chance you had stayed in power then the "Zeljev Bridge" would probably have been built on you for another 15 years after 15 years of construction. It will be completed and it will be done 17 months after the signing of the agreement. Once again, I remind you of Lot 2 contracting parties are the Region government and the town of Novi Sad and once again thank the city of Novi Sad for being big and smart enough and knows that this is important for the citizens of Serbia. It's a shame about the District Government. As far as the law is concerned, laws are applied, because if they weren't applied to me today they wouldn't have this kind of data about fiscal consolidation and this kind of data if we didn't do anything else to build roads. The infrastructure projects they mention, so we weren't in the government when your current president was walking around the world, taking credit without knowing they had one single project. It wasn't Vucic, it was Tadic. So, what you've done in the past ten years, you've left us, we'll get rid of them. We'll solve the problems, but you have to be honest enough to know that you've made a mistake, to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26587	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected minister, Article 18 speaks about technical conditions for the security of the person, and he says – depending on the type of installation and environment of the cableway, technical conditions and measures must be prescribed to provide conditions for the security of the person during the time when the cable is not working and when it cannot be started for a long time. But he figured it out, but he's got faith. The operator shall prescribe the manner and procedure of implementing the technical conditions and measures referred to in Article 1(1). We have suggested that this member, depending on the type of plant and the environment, is prescribed technical conditions and measures guaranteeing the safety of the person and property, while the set cablers are not working. The Minister prescribes the way and procedure of implementing the technical conditions and measures referred to in Article 1, and this is, you will agree with the distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a much better formulation than has been given by the professional body of the Government. Since I didn't get a word from Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, you're wrong at all. Security can be anything. We just specify which types of security is referred to in Article 6, so the government's professional body either did not want to understand or did not understand the matter that you very well wanted here to propose to the Assembly for adoption. I hope that, with the debate, we will accept a lot of these amendments that need to improve quality, we also want a good law, a good job, and that at the end of the debate, we will vote and declare a law that should be good when it comes out of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26589	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 19 to paragraph 1 which reads – mobile parts usually found on pages must be constructed and installed in a way that excludes any danger to people and property, if such a danger exists, the moving parts must be equipped with protective devices that prevent contact with parts of the devices that can cause an emergency event. These devices must be such that they cannot simply be removed or disabled. We have proposed an amendment to delete the word in this attitude – usually, and after words – people and property and decimals, add a word, or an ally – a. The decree usually leaves a large space for different interpretations, and given the content of this article and the fact that it regulates the security issue requires a precise editing, which is why we have asked for the erasure of words – usually, and the ally – and we ask that it be introduced to make it clear that it is the case, the exception. Of course, such a reasoned and established amendment has been accepted and I only urge you to consider the other amendments, because this is proof that we have each submitted with a really good desire to improve the text of the law and to clarify some of the specifics in the law, and not only to report to the amendments, as the minister stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26591	Thank you. The National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Reading Article 20, which has a title above – a work area, and reading Article 20 itself, which I can read and thus simply convince my colleagues that our amendment is good, says point 1. – the workplace and the work area, including those used only occasionally, as well as access to them, must be designed in a way that prevents executive workers from falling. It is said in paragraph 2 – if the construction is such that there is a danger of the fall of executive workers, executive workers must also be provided with secure connections to personal protective equipment that executive workers are obliged to use to prevent the fall. We have suggested that above Article 20, the member's name be changed and our proposal would be – the security of the executive workers in the work area because we seem to have seen the name above the article 20 with the very text of this member. Of course, we have changed and corrected Article 20 so that he says – job and work area, including those used only occasionally, as well as access to them, must be designed in a way that excludes any danger to the lives and health of executive workers and especially the risk of falling. If the construction is such that there is a risk to the life and health of executive workers and, in particular, the risk of falling, it is necessary to provide the executives with personal protective equipment and safety connections for the personal protective equipment which the executives are obliged to use to prevent the risk of life and health or the risk of falling. Our amendment is rejected with the view that it is not accepted for the reason that the said member refers to the work area. We do not think that the promoter has agreed on his or her intentions, members' names and content, especially in this case and in point 2., the obligations to ensure the protection of workers' safety and their obligation to use equipment are established, and I ask you once again to look at and read our suggestion and adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26593	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26594	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, article 22 is talking about the cable track. I would ask you to listen carefully and I will read this article carefully once again and comment: "The tape of cableways must suit the work and profile of the terrain - an interesting formulation - as well as that the conditions for transportation by cableway are met in a safe way". We have suggested that this first position reads: "Trasa cableways must meet the conditions of the terrain and that the conditions for transport by cableway are met in a safe way", since there is no "work" of the terrain. I really don't know what it's like to work in the field, so you'll probably explain it to me? We have suggested a generic term: "field conditions", which I think is a much happier solution. Note the second point of view of this article: “At the choice of cableways, the areas exposed to snow avalanches must be avoided. ” I agree. Furthermore, it is said: “the sounding of stones, ” I agree,“ the devastations of the earth, ” and here I agree, “a strong wind, an icy rain, a danger of fire and thunder. ” Gentlemen, if this were to apply to our cableways, let's get the wires off the bathroom and the old mountain. There's a strong wind, there's freezing rain and there's thunder, it's flying. In winter, there are no thunderstorms, it hasn't been, at least I haven't experienced it in 60 years, and I'd ask you to rephrase this, because someone who understands this and reads it will wonder what we're doing against freezing rains? This attitude they end – or measures must be taken to ensure the safe operation of cableways. How about freezing rains? How about a strong wind? How about thunder? I think he's a little unhappyly engaged to this member. It was probably a good intention, but it was accidentally re-formed and it's probably someone who didn't ride a cable car and who doesn't know what it looks like in January when you sit on a basket. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26595	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26596	Let's not leave it through the cursor, so it's not "work" but "fall", it's a printing error. You're absolutely right. It'll be fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26597	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 23, and we have proposed that item 1 be amended to read: “The safety analysis must be made and covered by all safety requirements that should be met in connection with the design, construction, maintenance and operation of the cableway, i.e. by its installation and its environment. ” In Article 2, we suggested that the word “Hazard ” be deleted. All of this goes with reason that Article 23, Article 1, position The bill seems to be read very inconsistently and legally undercomprehensible, and the amendment removes these shortcomings. As regards the term "Hazard", it is not defined by law and it is unacceptable to use vague terms when standardising security analysis, especially since these are documents that are necessary for obtaining approval and authorisation for the operation of cableways. The Government rejected this amendment, with a reason not to accept it because it is not meaningful, for the reasons that all the concepts covered by this law are in line with Directive 2000/9 EC. These terms may be covered and aligned with the Directive, i.e. that there was a intention to comply with the Directive. However, these terms are not defined in the basic terms of this law. By doing so, the application of these provisions has been called into question. How it will be later in application to determine whether the risks and gambling are adequately prescribed, and therefore, to adequately take measures for the safe operation of cableways, if the term “Hazard” is not defined and is in line with the directive and exists in other countries in such laws, as defined there. That is why we propose either that the amendment be accepted or that the Proposer supplement these terms. I only ask that we do not receive an explanation contradictoryly, as in the amendment to Article 17, where the minister said the law should not contain recommendations, and a colleague who defended the ministry's position and the government's position to reject the amendment said they should contain recommendations from members and that therefore no amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26599	Thank you. Members of the National Assembly Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26600	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 24 refers to a security report. With our amendment, we have changed attitude 1, i.e. we propose an amendment to attitude 1 and we have an intervention on the subject of the single and the plural used there. The proposed position of Article 24 states: "A security analysis is the subject of a safety report which must show the intended risk measures". We have suggested that Article 1’s position reads: “The security report is arranged on the basis of a security analysis and shows measures in the event of potential risks.” We think our formulation is better. The view of the third member states: “The security report is made by persons with the calling of a responsible designer. “ We suggest that this plural be replaced with one. In response to the government, the amendment is said not to be accepted because the transformation is too high. We don't think the reformation is superfluous, especially with regard to the use of concepts in one. Methodological rules have established that the concepts in the law are used as a rule in the single. If used in plural, it means that the legislator was just about to apply it. In this particular case, it would mean that the legislator wanted the report to make more faces, not one person. Confusion is created because in paragraph 3 the multiple is used, and then in the position of the 4th unit, so it will remain unspeakable and unclear how many faces the report makes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26601	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 26 refers to the assessment of compliance in paragraph 3 which is to be submitted to the competent national authority and their copies shall be kept at the location of the installation of the cableway. We have proposed that, in paragraph 3 after the term "security analysis", they add the words "security report" and that they be said "to be submitted to the competent state authority and their copies are kept at the location of the cable plant", replacing the words "to be submitted to the Directorate, and their copies are kept in the driver's seat". In paragraph 7, where the minister says: "the closer the regulation of conformity and the labelling of conformity, in accordance with the law governing technical requirements for products and conformity assessment", we have suggested that the words "preserve IDs" be replaced by the words "preserves the content and form of the document". You responded – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed formulation is clear enough. We don't think the proposed formulation is clear enough, and that's why we submitted this amendment, especially when it comes to the location of the cable plant. What's the location of the train plant? In basic terms, there's no definition anywhere in the law. If an obligation is imposed, it must be specified precisely, so that whoever has to fulfill it knows how to fulfill it. For this reason, we have made this correction to be in the seat of the manager and to be submitted to the Directorate, and I ask you, Madam Minister, that you reconsider and accept our amendment formulation in Article 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26603	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26604	Thank you, Chairman. We have submitted the amendment to Article 28 and have proposed that attitude 1 be changed, so that it reads: “The executive worker must comply with the law of the prescribed conditions regarding professional training and healthcare. ” In Article 28, paragraph 1 of the proposal, the Proposer needlessly reiterates the definition of an executive worker, which is referred to in Article 3 of the same Bill, and in this sense, we amend this irregularity in normisation, i.e. the excessive repetition of the definition of the executive worker, and we propose that it should only come down to its obligation, calling for legal provisions. The amendment was not accepted because the transformation was too high. That's the government's opinion. We continue to believe that the reformation is not excessive, but that it is excessive that the proposing in this Article 1st position 28 repeats the definition of the executive worker in Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26605	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26606	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another example of what a formality is when it comes to bill proposals and amendments. What the minister said, that the transformation does not bring any improvement, is confirmed in this article of the law. Here, I would like to read: “The executive worker who performs the work directly involved in the operation of the cableway’s traffic must meet the legal requirements regarding professional and health skills. ” You have made the proposal: “The executive worker must meet the legal requirements regarding professional and health skills”. You're saying this is an extra one. When we who used to work in the economy, so when there's a case, how important this is when it comes to saying -- executive worker, when it comes to court, it's one important thing for court practice, and probably the legislator, and he meant it. So I propose not to accept this amendment submitted by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26607	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26608	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26609	Just tell me why you think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26610	He didn't understand me very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26611	That's not enough reason for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26612	All right, then time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26614	Let me just say that the explanation given by a colleague doesn't stand. And we worked in the economy, and I worked as a lawyer and I know how to interpret it in court. If something is in Article 3 as a definition, there is no need to repeat it in the following articles.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26615	Thank you. You must understand, Mrs. Hasanovic Korach. If they were to interpret it like that, then anyone could call for some wrong interpretation, so I'm sorry I couldn't give you a replica. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Risking my criticism as well as my colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korac, I will still say that we have submitted the amendment to Article 29 and have proposed its total transformation. We think that our proposal is more legal and content-specific and that it better regulates the area of professional training of the executive worker, but the government has also given its opinion on our submission of the amendment. It is not accepted for the reason that the transformation is too high. We still think that our formulation is more accurate, and the proposal is probably too high because otherwise the whole law is completely inaccurate to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26617	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, a respected colleague and colleague, member of the 30th is engaged in the health capacity of an executive worker. He says in the first position – an executive worker and a person on professional training for an executive worker, depending on the jobs they perform, must meet the conditions regarding health skills and be mentally and physically capable of performing these tasks (hereinafter referred to as health care) attributed to a law governing safety and health at work. Then Article 2 where we have proposed an amendment – the health capacity of the executive worker must be periodically, and at the prescribed times and subject to emergency checks. We suggested that instead of saying "periodically" it would be: "on a regular six-monthly basis". The hand on the heart, you did in the last position write – the minister responsible for health affairs, with the agreement of the minister, and thinks of you, Madam Minister, prescribes the health conditions of executive workers, how to determine and verify health skills, deadlines of periodic checks and cases in which an emergency check is carried out. So, I don't think it was burned that it wasn't done by a sublegal act, it was regulated by law when that periodic check was made. Because you'll agree, depending on the job that this cableman is doing and the risks of that job, he can be checked for six months, for a year, for two years, and I don't think he's burned to write it in law and regulate it legally, and not leave to be dealt with by a sublegal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26619	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26620	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31, so they change. The title would read: ‘The inability of the executive worker to carry out the work’. Article 31 says: “The executive worker cannot do jobs if he is tired, sick, or under the influence of drugs, alcohol, or psychotropic substances. The Executive Officer shall be obliged to terminate his or her work if the circumstances set out in Article 1 appear before or during work and inform his or her deputy immediately. The Executive Officer shall cease his work when his superior, i.e. the deputy senior assessment, that the circumstances set out in paragraph 1 have taken place and impose an termination of the work. “ We propose to amend Article 31, given that the solution given in the text of the draft law is incorrect. It is not clear what it means: “in such a mental state. ” It's a very vague notion and it has other similar indeterminate concepts, so since it's about the safety of the cabler's work, we felt that this norm must be clear and precise to the end. Also, the title above the member has been matched with the content of the member himself, because it is not about the ability, but about the moment, of the situation where the executive worker is unable to perform his own activity. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the transformation is too high. It is an argument that is mostly repeated and I really urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it, in order to be more clearly specified terms in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26621	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 32 refers to the examination of the presence of illicit substances in executive workers. We, as so far, have tried to reshape individual views of certain members and come to as simple and practical solutions as possible, so here we propose a change of attitude 2. You said in the proposal – the organism is considered to have alcohol, intoxicating drugs or psychotropic substances if their existence in the organism is established by a prescribed method of testing by appropriate means or devices. We believe that our formulation: “The presence of alcohol, intoxicating drugs or psychotropic substances in the body is determined by the prescribed method of testing by appropriate means or devices” far better. We have also made an objection, or amendment to the position of the fourth member. The proposal states – The cancellation of the labour contract in cases referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be subject to the provisions of the Labour Act. Our proposal reads: “In case the existence of alcohol, intoxicating drugs or psychotropic substances in the executive worker’s body, or the executive worker refuses or does not access the investigation, the manager may cancel the labour contract in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. ” As in many cases so far, the government's view is that the amendment is not accepted because the transformation is too high. We still think our motions for changes are more precisely formulated on these issues. I still urge the minister to reconsider our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26623	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26624	Madam Minister, I think you should reconsider the possibility of accepting this amendment. I'll tell you why. It is very important that certain segments of particularly technical rules and those concerning the obligations of the people working for these technical devices be defined and resolved to the end because you, Madam Minister, will be responsible if something goes wrong. You'll be held accountable unless something is right. One day, if coffee spills on a command board there, you, Madam Minister, will be responsible for stopping that wire. You remember what happened to the plane these days. You, in the opinion of the President of the State, or his advisers, are responsible for the almost falling of the plane. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Is this an amendment? It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26625	Mr. Veselinović, you've done exactly what you've done before. Do you know what the subject is? I'll read it to you if you don't know - Amendment to Article 32. The amendment reads - Article 32(2) is amended as follows: "The presence of alcohol, intoxicating drugs or... Do I have to read you all the way? (Janko Veselinović, from town: That's right. Are you saying you're talking about this amendment? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: I am making comparison. You cannot in such a way insult the dignity of this high house. Please don't do this. Here you go. (Branislav Blažić, from the place: What does this have to do with it? Please don't throw it away. Please, I'll give you a warning. Don't throw it away. Please, you see that you are causing the dissatisfaction of the MPs. Please don't make a comparison like that. I'm begging you. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: I am talking about the amendment. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26626	I point once again to the fact that the minister will be responsible if these tests are not done correctly, unless the procedure is clearly defined. So this is clearly defined procedure. In this case, you cannot happen to be responsible, Minister, because the law is not well arranged. That's why, in this case because of you, we've asked for your resignation several times, I don't think you were responsible for this the other day, but for many things you're responsible for, you should have resigned. Don't let things like this get you out of the place you're in right now. Take care of this more detail. It's not necessary, I didn't ask for coffee to be mentioned, but here's the mention of alcohol in the blood, intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, etc. These people who have it in their blood can make such mistakes in the system that you, Minister, can answer, to be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26627	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, it's an amendment. It definitely has nothing to do with this bad and, I'd say, ugly attempts to abuse the discussion by amendments, but by the text that was proposed. So we've heard that this suggests something more detailed, actually nothing more detailed, and there's no, when you compare the content, it literally refers to the same thing and treats it the same way. I'm talking about a situation where you determine the existence of illicit substances or when testing is refused. So the exact same results are if we apply the original text or if we apply the one that's now proposed here. If we need to talk about the quality of the text that was used, I will allow myself the luxury to conclude that the original text of attitude 4 is far more elegant. Accordingly, I would rather keep him than adopt the proposed amendment. I don't like this proposed change, as much as we're dealing with spelling and changing the order of words, and we're allowing ourselves to suggest something with grammatical errors. So, to refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26629	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26630	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. When I listen to the discussions of some MPs, I am somehow increasingly convinced to propose to the National Assembly and National Assembly presidents that, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, some of the provisions of this law that you have proposed, Mrs Mihajlović, be introduced into the Rules of Procedure, so as to introduce the need for the presence of alcohol, intoxicating drugs and these other psychotropic substances to be determined for some individuals here before they enter this hall and before some of these things are said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26631	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26632	This is good, but let's also apply to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26633	Mr. Granny, please don't do this. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26634	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have proposed an amendment to article 34, which deals with working hours and the duration of the shift. Here, I will read to you how the position first reads – Under working hours, within the meaning of this law, is considered the time that an executive worker spends in doing business in one shift. Second position – The working time of the executive worker in one shift cannot last longer than 11 hours. We have suggested, since we think that workers working on these jobs are doing a very difficult job, in difficult conditions, that the working hours instead of 11 hours be cut to work hours of six hours. Government, i.e. The expert body of the Government replied that the amendment was not accepted for reasons of the fact that the working time and duration of the replacement of the executive worker were specific and therefore the proposal to regulate this law. That doesn't make any sense to me at all. I don't get it. Government, i.e. The expert body of the Government replied that the amendment was not accepted for the reasons that the working time and duration of the replacement of the executive worker are specific and are therefore in the proposal to regulate this law. That's not clear to me at all, here in an explanation. I don't get it. And let me tell you something, this turns out to be older than the Labour Act. The Labour Act, article 50, says – the working time is the period during which an employee is required, i.e. available to perform tasks according to the employer’s orders at the place where the transactions are carried out in accordance with the law. Article 51 says - full-time is 40 hours a week, if this law is not different. We agree that's how it is and it should be respected. Well, then Article 52, where we're based on what we've proposed to do for six hours, i.e. Since he is working under difficult conditions, says Article 52. – employees working on particularly difficult, difficult and harmful jobs established by law or by a general act on which, despite the application of appropriate measures of safety and protection of life and health at work, means and equipment for personal protection at work, there is an increased adverse fact on health for work, the relatively harmful effect of working conditions on the health and working capacity of the employee is shortened, and at the most ten hours a week, these are jobs with the greatest risk. We think this is a high-risk job and we're proposing a cut in working hours. Now, what we don't agree on at all is this and the proposed 11 hours, because you gave the employer the opportunity, means that the day shift worker lasts, if the employer solves 11 hours, that's how I figured out from the law. Article 53 of the overtime says: at the request of the employer, the employer is obliged to work longer than full-time, and in the case of a more sudden increase in the volume of work, in other cases when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned, in the following text, overtime work. I don't know if this job isn't planned, this is shift work, you've been on wire, you know what it looks like. Item 2 says - overtime cannot last longer than eight hours a week. It takes five days, three hours, 15 hours. And that's where you broke the standard. Employees can't work longer than 12 hours a day, including overtime, but one day, not every day. So I don't think this is right, and you should really consider revising this proposal. Because what's going into the law, it's going to be an obligation for those workers of cablemen who work, so let's call them, as they call them in real life, and it's going to give the employer a chance to probably be this, let's not want to be malpractice, but this is like ordering a working time, that the one who organizes the work of a cableman, the one who owns a cabler, that has to hire too many workers who will work in one i.e. In two shifts than this will end with one-way work, cable work. Please think again and change this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26635	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26636	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Mihajlovic, members of the Cabinette, fellow MPs and MPs, as someone who spent many years on our mountains, on our beautiful women, I can responsibly say that the amendment of the Proposer cannot be adopted. I hope that any of the amendment's proposings had the pleasure of driving a cable car both in winter and in summer conditions, if it is, then this amendment is certain that I won't take it. In fact, this is about the next one, and I'm going to be talking specifically about our mountain beauty of the Bath. The cable company's working hours are from nine to 16 hours. In optimal weather conditions, sometimes they don't work. Sometimes they work from 24, one to two. Also, we need to consider that employee labour, as fellow cablemen have said, come on and I'll call them so, are from surrounding rural areas. We all know that the specific winter conditions, when the ski season comes to a very difficult or even impossible arrival at work, even though they are surrounding villages tens of miles away from Kopalnik. So that the seven-hour shift stop, and we'll take into account that the cablemen have to come in an hour early, to check that the wire is okay, whether the capacities are the way they should be and who are leaving an hour after their work hours, simply can't interrupt the shift during the six-hour time period as the proposer requires for this reason why they can't achieve the continuity of good and responsible work on the wire within a shift. Well, it's resorting to people who are in areas like I've said to a remote area, and that something, a dozen miles away, is significant in difficult winter conditions, one day they're working, the next day they're probably taking a break. So I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26637	Thank you. The word is made by the MP, Professor Dr Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26638	Thank you. The non-acceptance of this amendment is a confirmation of the relationship of this government, or SNS to workers. The Labour Act itself has led workers into situations where they can be fired as they are these days in NIS disabled and pregnant and so on. You use this law to implement the practical provisions of the Labour Act, according to which the worker works as far as the employer says. Now, a colleague explains and gives a definition which is an anti-pothesis of which the minister is talking about and which, according to us, is the aim of this law, so says the worker can't come back to the mountain because it's remote, entrenched and so on and should work 11 hours. Well, that man is responsible for people's lives. There are children, parents, hundreds of people sitting on these cableways. Whether anyone with ten hours of work on command boards can be concentrated enough to realize, or to perform these tasks entrusted to him in a quality way. So instead of regular working hours of eight hours, you give the employer an opportunity to say 11 hours. Well, getting into the complex, he's supposed to be resting there, getting ready for a new day's work, not working 11 hours. You only think about capital, capitalists, financial organizations, you don't think about workers at all. You don't understand, Minister, so you can't have a relationship to understand a man who lives hard and who will agree to do those 11 hours for 20, 30, 40 thousand. You don't understand. He'll agree to do it, but it'll endanger the safety of the people he's responsible for. Accept this amendment, allow these people who work there, and they have similar responsibilities as drivers, as pilots, as people who manage other means of transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26639	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26640	Well, the way you understood the workers, that's how you went through the election. Well, let me remind you, unfortunately that's terrible for all of us. It's terrible for Serbia, I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry that you're responsible for over 200 grand that were out of work during your reign. Now, let's move on to what's the subject, or the amendment you've submitted, and let me give you information that one engineer drives for ten hours, and then he's got two extra hours, and then he's got one day off. So, what is written here in this article of the law – the minister, with the consent of the minister responsible for the work hours and duration of the shift depending on the organisation, the frequency of traffic, the type of jobs, the working conditions, other conditions affecting the mental, physical ability of executive workers. So, the sublegal act will determine exactly, because here it says - not more than 11 hours. It is the employer who will determine, may work much less than that, so he will have a few days off and what it will look like will be determined by a sublegal act at all. For this reason, your amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26641	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26642	Minister, you're three full years in power, you've been Minister for three years, stop living in the past, turn to the present and the future. We're talking specifically about people who are going to be working on cableways. I think you gave false information that engineers have been driving for 11 hours. That's not good, then. So I'm not even close to that job, but I don't think it's prescribed that the engineer can do 11 hours without breaking up. Indeed, then we are threatened by the people on the railways traveling those trains. I know that people who drive trucks have tafographs that they can drive for eight hours, for engineers, I don't know. I know there's two people sitting in the cabin, and they're changing, and the other one shouldn't bother this first guy who drives, accidentally spilling something on his device, but anyway...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26643	Mr Vesenovic, just that, since you're running out of time and you're already over a minute using the MP's time, do you still use the time of the parliamentary group, since you don't have any more time for an authorised representative? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Yes, let me finish the sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26644	So, I suggest that you reconsider this amendment, respect the interests of the employees, and accept the amendment so that the workers will be satisfied, so that the safety of the people sitting on those wires will be greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26645	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26646	Just for a little while. Since you said we don't take care of employees, so for the first time in 10 years of negative trend and growth in unemployment, this government is taking a positive turn. Nobody says it's good, it's great, but it's certainly better than it was. Even though someone's in the center and the focus of everything we do, it's a worker. At your center and focus were some other people, some other companies, those who are now responding in the D.A., they were at your center, and we have a worker at the center. Therefore, the sublaw will be defined. You said nicely about the engineers that there are two, that they're changing, that it's like on a plane, after all, just like it's going to be tied to the wire. Let the sublegal act define it very clearly and nicely, precisely in order to protect the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26647	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26648	Thank you. So, I don't agree with Mrs. Minister's argument at all, and I don't want to discuss the replica of a colleague who participated in this discussion at all. I believe that your right to implement policy and decision-making on the type of law, and what the law will look like, is your political decision, you will vote on it, but allow us the right to say both a different opinion and a different view of the whole problem. I think working time should be limited by law, not by sublaw because we guarantee quality and law enforcement, not by ministry. By order of the Assembly, they will enforce this law as we create it here and as we adopt it. I am deeply convinced that this should be resolved by law, by this article, that the maximum labour law should be respected and the possibility of possible abuses on the ground. That is what people will judge, so my God, we will see each other in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26649	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26650	One of the reasons why this amendment is not acceptable to the SNS, except for those reasons presented by the distinguished Ms. Mihajlovic, is that it lies in one sentence that is malicious and full of auto projections. When the amendment promoter says – you work in the interest of large capital when it comes to cableways. Is that an auto-projection? Is this a reminder of the time when the amendment promoter sat in the same National Assembly and passed laws from a New Belgrade-based company on land donated to that same company at a much lower price than the market, when laws were passed from the Delta office of Miroslav Miskovic and adopted here. On the other hand, I would like to ask the amendment promoter, Serbia's ski resort, Serbia's cable car, Kopalnik, Stari Planina, Tornik, who owns these cableways? Who's the user? Since when are Serbia's ski resorts a large capital, a public enterprise? Since when is the state the owner of large-scale capital? How can the amendment promoter put a sign of equality between the tycoon he worked for and the state of Serbia? Since when are Serbian ski resorts and public enterprises the same as "Delta"? What leads the amendment's proposings to say something like that? Ignorance, evil intentions, hatred? Whatever it is, it's bad. In this way, an insult has been sent to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are the owners of public enterprises. For what? He's worried about the safety of cable users? Where have you been? Why haven't you passed the law so far? It didn't occur to you because it wasn't in the interest group of capital owners you worked for, that you passed laws in this assembly. Whether there's gonna be a decimal or a point somewhere, whether it's gonna be a user or a enjoyr, formal things, two minutes after the amendment, that you're right, you can handle anything, but don't do it that way, don't explain such pointless amendments, in my opinion meaningless amendments, don't even the tycoons with the state. Do not give up everything you have done and what they have done and what Mrs. Mihajlović has said well, that more of the subject of the prosecution and the judicial authorities, because that would be nice, we have done in favour of the tycoon, the tycoon, the same as the state, if we are doing for the benefit of the state and the citizens. It's not like that. For the tycoons, you've passed laws, and you've brought misery to the citizens of Serbia, patience, and for someone a pick and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people without a job, and now let it be forgotten. Let me just mention it in 2012 and then over here, all the other turkey dots don't count, you don't have a responsibility, it's past time. Of course, responsibility will be determined by those who are legally and by the Constitution to determine responsibility. We will remind you of political responsibility, and personal responsibility will remind you of Serbian citizens in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26651	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26652	I'm just saying, I'm not going to explain for long, I'm just saying that the amendment promoter has shown this time that he absolutely understands neither the essence nor the theory of the proposed law. Namely, skiing for them has been shown to be a "twright-zone", a twilight zone. Why? On a plastic case, I'm going to say it, so whether or not the amendment promoters can imagine, and all of us in this room are present to stop the wire every day for an hour because it's a must to do the handover of a shift between two or one cablemen. How do you think we'd react to 500 of them waiting in line the moment the meter conditions worsened, to a break, to a sudden power outage? The cableman stands at a certain altitude at a temperature of minus 20, a very unpleasant man feels. I don't think you've had any experience with this because if you had, you wouldn't have suggested this amendment, so I'm saying that for a thousand reasons, the amendment promoters probably didn't have any experience in the experience of ski sports, or in the ride by a cable car in winter conditions. Otherwise, they probably wouldn't have thought to propose an amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26653	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26654	Thank you. I think I'm entitled to a replica, but it's not a problem. It's your last. Dear colleague, you're absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26655	Mr. Bradich, if you were the only amendment promoter, you would have, but like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26656	I talk about the amendment all the time, but it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26657	Do you understand me? If you were the only amendment promoter, you'd have, but I can't tell from all of you who you've been referring to, because it's said that you're an amendment promoter, and you're not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so I don't have the opportunity to give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26658	Okay. Let's start over.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26659	Sign up so I can give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26660	Thank you. So, my colleague is absolutely wrong, but I don't want to correct him and enter the controversy. We're talking about a very important thing, we're talking about the law and the working time of the workers who need to be in line with the law. So that's what we're talking about. I'd just like to answer my colleague's question. I don't hate him. I like him. And my contacts with him so far have been very correct, so I don't really hate you. As for the tender, I'd like to remind you, say, of "Yugobank." Let's say "Yugobanka" is the same thing as a tender, and that's where the best bidder in the tender gets the "Yugobanke" space, and that's where the hotel will be built. Just like, say, you mentioned something about "Delta Siti," but it's not a theme either. The theme is working time. What I'm going to do with this law again, I don't know if I'm reading the same way, the working time of an executive in one shift can't last more than 11 hours. That's the darkness. It's a theme of all themes. And I say, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, that I think that we should do the best we can with the law. You're saying it needs a sublegal act. Yours is legitimate. As I've said many times, you can vote that the country is square, but it's not, it's rolling. I defend my position and tell the citizens that there is another way of thinking about this law, another idea and another solution, and they will assess who is right. Don't get so angry. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Since when is the country rolling? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26661	Please, Mr. Martinovic, there is no need for education. The MPs will understand they've made a mistake and made a lapus. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we have a dictionary for the race. I am grateful that the opposition MPs have made it possible for us to use the dictionaries as well. This is the Serbian Mother's Dictionary 1971, page 224. I'm sorry that my colleague, Dr. Janko Veselinovic, is not here to see that there is no "close" word, does not exist in the dictionary. It's close. When someone says - I'm not close, it's very badly defending its amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26663	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26664	I'm talking about the amendment. So the explanation is that my colleague, Professor Janko Veselinović, used an expression that does not exist in the dictionary. It's not acceptable for me, because the amendment's defence has not been lexically done. I expect a professor to do a little grammatically better and better to defend his suggestions. That's one of the reasons why I'm not in favour of accepting this amendment. Of course, I like Mr. Bradic and we should listen to him sometimes, and we don't need him, but I don't blame him, because he's one of the best MPs of the opposition, at least for me. I believe that those with a lot of zeal defend that amendment of theirs, but that's no reason to make this many mistakes and some of the docents here will agree with me anyway. There's another point. I find it a little uncomfortable when working hours and labour rights are being advocated by those who, like tsunamis, have devastationed factories and businesses, where jobs are simply cleaned up and today they advocate that these labour rights are greater. I could agree with them, especially when it comes to wire. I believe he's particularly threatened, say, by a grabper, who I don't know how many apartments he takes, from how many squares on the bathroom. I won't be at that risk. It's a little too expensive a dispute for us farmers, at least for this one of us in the assembly. I believe the other one is visiting ski resorts. I have no intention of driving these cableways, but I think they're concerned about the health of the former grabper minister, so something might happen to him, since he's a frequent visitor to these ski resorts that are very expensive and he's taking very expensive apartments. I don't know how it all comes with a salary that's less than 1,000 euros, when we take that heroic conquest of some pastures there, forced a pasture near the temple of St. Sava, took up the hero's charge and lost 400,000 jobs immediately. To me, not to be a harsh comparison, it may be harsh, protecting workers from them looks like protecting Jews from Adolf Hitler's party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26665	Please, Mr. Ristichevich... The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26666	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 38(3), which reads in the proposal for the text of the law – a natural person who, by his condition or behaviour, is in danger of the work of himself or another person, cannot be transported and, where appropriate, must be removed from the field of work. We have proposed to reshape this position and to say – a natural person who is jeopardizing the work of cablemen, his own safety and the safety of other persons or property cannot be transported and will be away from the work area of the cable. The formulation of the amendment is in line with the rules of legal normation, it is clearer and more precise than the proposal made in the draft law. The amendment was not accepted because the transformation was too high. Of course, there is again this one single sentence in the explanation and there is no explanation at all why it is excessive, why the proposer considers that the bill's formulation is better, but it is obviously a formula that is easiest to reject all amendments that did not want to accept and for which there were really no strong arguments in the opinion of the promoter and because it proposes the opposition. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for having responded to the discussion of the head of the SNS parliamentary group, because here the three of us defend the amendments and it is clear that only the three of us speak. His delusions, which have already been repeated in this assembly for the second time in history, are the need to introduce an alcohol test for those who are talking is really very offensive. Thank you for reacting. But that's why you let a whole series of insults happen in other conversations afterwards. I can say that it is an insult to the dignity of the congregation, because I am an integral part of this congregation. No one paid me, and no one affected me. That's why I've been here all this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26667	Thank you. I'm absolutely sure none of the speakers thought of you that way. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26668	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has once again turned out to be the reformation of the bill does not improve anything of this law. So this amendment should not be accepted for a simple reason, because of one word that is said here in the law – remove, and here it is said to - move away. Remove and move away, it's the same thing, get someone out of that job. I have to say, this building, this house, it's not a place for me to say so, just to not warn the chairman, to treat complexes individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26669	Mr. Toskovic, I give you a warning. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26670	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I simply cannot believe that I will say this sentence – thank you for taking the protection of the opposition's few MPs. As for the amendment to Article 39(1), we thought that our proposal was in line with the Serbian language standards, so we replaced the word "bringed", and attitude 3 as well as in the current manner, we changed. It originally reads: “The cableway stations, in its vehicles, as well as in the area of the cable plant’s influence, must have signs of warning regarding the behaviour of persons, as well as signs of danger and warning for movement in the area of the station and in the area of influence of the cable plant. ” We think our formulation, which I'm about to read to you, is far better and simpler. Thus, paragraph 3 is changed and reads: “The cableway stations, in its vehicles, as well as in the area of influence of the cableway plant, highlight the signs of notification, warning, as well as signs of dangers that require certain behaviour or movement of the face. ” In the government's explanation, there is a standard sentence – our amendment is not accepted, and the sentence, as so far, reads – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the transformation is unnecessary. I'm under the impression that the government was in charge of any possible transformation that she hadn't even read, and I can't get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26671	On behalf of members of 40th and member of the 40th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić together. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, honourable MPs, we have suggested that the title above the 40th article, which reads as "act of manager", be renamed "general terms of transport". We think it's a little more meaningful, because normally you in the article and you write in the first sentences "the manager prescribes general terms of transport, determines the timetable, the working time and the price list", means everything about transport, and we think it's more meaningful that instead of "the driver act", which is a very broad term, it's a much more appropriate name for this part "general terms of transport", because that's what it's all about. In the second point, you say: “The general conditions of transport must ensure that persons follow the instructions given by the executive worker, as well as that during use the cableways behave in a way that ensures safe and regular work and transport of cableways. ” We have suggested that these words "must be provided", replacing the words "requirement is prescribed". Therefore, the general conditions of transport prescribe the obligation for persons to follow instructions, etc. We think it's a much better solution. You replied that the amendment was not accepted because the transformation was too high. I think it is more linguistically correct and clearer and more concrete what we have proposed, and once again I ask you, Mrs Mihajlović, to consider and accept this proposal, because I think this article will be clearer on which we have given the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26673	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26674	Mr. Chairman, I call on us not to adopt this amendment after all, and I call for the same argument that has been made, freely put, by the amendment's proposal for a language correctness, because we have a grammatical error again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26675	Thank you. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26676	The President-in-Office, we have submitted an amendment to Article 44 with a proposal to amend attitude 2 and read: "The undertaking of works and other works in the safety belt of the cableway is allowed under the conditions laid down by law, technical and other regulations and with the prior consent of the cabler manager", and in Section 4, that the words "the owner of immovable property and other immobilities rights" are replaced by the words "the cable driver". We believe that the proposal was intended to provide for situations where works and other actions in the safety belt were taken, which are in accordance with the rules, unlike those in Section 1. But the promoter did so in a vague and inaccurate way, and the amendment offers a clearer solution. The intervention in paragraph 4 shall comply with the general rule of obligation of the controller to be responsible for the safety of the operation of the cableway. The amendment was not accepted for the reason that the amendment promoter mixed the concept of the owner of the immovable property and the owner of other rights with the driver of the cableway. That is the reason we received from the legislator. We assure the legislator that we have not mixed the concepts, but that we do not understand why the owner of the immovable property or the owner of other immobilities on which the cableway is located, or the safety of the cableway belt, should be obliged to maintain the immovableity, so that the safety and functionality of the cableways are not compromised, and the driver is obliged to take care of the safety of the cablers or interest groups involved in the design of the bill thinks that the cabler’s driver, who earns the profits from the cabler, should not have such obligations. We're really trying to make constructive suggestions and constructively defend our own, not insulting anyone, but we have to say what we think of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26677	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26678	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 45 describes the evacuation process and is in the emergency section. We intervened with our amendment to paragraph 3, where, after the word "competent Service", we intended to place a decimal, or a comma, and to add the words "in accordance with the law governing emergency situations", and the rest of the sentence was deleted. The following point shall be inserted after the word ‘emergency’ in point 4 and the rest of the sentence shall be deleted. We think the promoter has hyper-normalized this matter, which reminds us that these situations are already regulated by the Emergency Law. We also propose to delete the provisions under which the evacuation is carried out in the summer period within four hours, and in the winter within two hours of the occurrence of the emergency event, and because we do not see why an emergency winter event would have a higher degree of urgency than, for example, working on a fire during the summer period. We got the government's opinion. Of course, our amendment is being rejected and he is already, for who knows which time, it is said – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the transformation is too high. We don't think that the reformation is too high, but it's too excessive to state in law any possible phone numbers to which competent services should be called, which is already subject to the Emergency Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26679	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26680	So here's another amendment that we filed, and the government refused. It refers to Article 46 on the part of providing first aid and it reads - the executive worker must be trained to provide first aid to injured persons in emergency events and that is fine. The second position we are asking for to be deleted, says - the manager prescribes the tasks of the first member's position and the third position says - training of executive workers from the position of the 1st member, performs "Red Cross", health institutions and societies that perform the work of medicine and specialists in medical work. Now, I'm asking you, Madam Minister, if this second position remains, what is this controller going to say about providing first aid? Please explain what he's going to prescribe and how he's going to influence it, so some machine engineer, lawyer, private, I don't know, someone who's finished these fast, expensive colleges, how he's going to instruct this worker to provide first aid, past standards and regulations and ways of providing first aid trained by specialised institutions that are trained to do so. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26681	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to read article 48, he says -- the manager is obliged to immediately inform the authorities of a serious accident. Powered persons of the competent bodies who are seeing a serious accident are required to see how they do not interfere with the work of the cablers. We have submitted an amendment to this article, so we suggest that in attitude 1 instead of the words "authorised person of the competent bodies" we write the words "competent authority" and that Section 2 be deleted. Because the legislator uses absolutely unacceptable terms and terms, for us unacceptable. On the basis of Article 1, it is not possible to determine who the authorised persons and whose competent bodies are. In addition, this inaccuracy cannot be tolerated in provisions relating to a serious accident which is an emergency in the transport by a cable car, which resulted in death or serious physical injury to at least one person or material damage to the cableway or the environment. In addition, we suggest erasing attitude 2 because it is unclear how a cable car can work at all in a situation of serious accident and insight that is being carried out in this regard, and the proposer prescribes that in such a situation it should not interfere with the operation of cableways, i.e. it must be provided with unlimited work of cableways. Of course, the amendment was rejected with the already standard formulation, not to be accepted for the reason that the transformation is too high. It turns out it's always too high when it's proposed a clearer and more detailed and more precise solution than the one in the bill. So, especially when it comes to serious accidents, I suggest you reconsider our amendments and accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26683	I thank Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. I ask the IT service to draw Mr. Toskovic's card, which remained in the system. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 49 refers to an emergency investigation. We've predicted a change in the position of the first member. The promoter says in the first position - the proposer is obliged to organise, conduct an investigation into an emergency. We have changed this attitude by amendment and it is said – the investigation into an emergency is carried out by the competent authority, and the controller can organise and conduct an investigation only of the disorder or incident. The investigation into the disturbance organised by the controller shall be carried out by an investigative committee whose composition must be all representatives of the entity to which the disorder or incident is concerned. Given the categorisation of emergency events as set out in Article 3 of the Bill's proposal, it is inadmissible that in the event of a serious accident or a evaluable accident, given the complexity and complexity of the causes of these events and the severity of the consequences, we believe that investigations into these types of emergency should be carried out by the competent state authorities, and the controller may possibly conduct an investigation in the event of a minor degree of harmfulness, such as a defined disorder or incident. I was convinced that the Ministry of Government would accept this amendment. Of course I'm not reading a sentence that our amendment has been rejected, but I'm simply interested in what makes you think it's overreformation in this case, that in the event of an emergency that may result in the death of people using the wire, the investigation is conducted by the competent authority and you think it's quite enough for the controller to conduct an investigation. The same driver whose failure may have caused the accident. So once again I ask that we do not leave this important issue to the inert – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the transformation is too high. I think we should think again about this really constructive proposal of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26685	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26686	Whenever it comes to the safety of people's lives, I just can't help but comment. So, in any resolution, even in this situation that you've mentioned now, the first controller has to make a certain report based on which the limits will continue to work. Far from wanting to relax something. On the contrary, the most important thing is people's safety. We said that one of the objectives of this law is the safety of people. It's just, I'm not sure you're right when you put it from that position, at least that's how I understand it, that's how we reduce it. No, they have to make at least the first initial report of what it is and to determine some kind of accident. Of course, there are inspections that can, there are people's applications, all agree, but they have to do this in all... and in the Railways it is so, and in any other company it is so. The competent authorities shall thereafter enter into force. It's other organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26687	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26688	Mr. Chairman, a brief comment on the subject of the amendment to Article 49. He's actually dealing with the manager's obligations. In no way prevents the police, for example, that when it is necessary to come to the scene and make their own conclusions or that any other, under the circumstances, more serious investigation is carried out. He's just dealing with the manager's obligations. It is logical that if there are some technical reasons that have led to an uncompromising situation, to be the manager's obligation to examine them, to establish them, and to lead to appropriate conclusions, so that such a thing does not happen in the future. It is so important not to eliminate such an obligation for the controller, that it does not limit itself as proposed by the amendment, only to so-called. minor incidents. If the problem is greater, so is the need to determine what happened. Certainly again at the technical level, at the level of governance and maintenance is more than clear. And accordingly, proper procedures are being adopted, so I am also giving this comment on the issue of Amendment 46, which I was saving time for, I didn't answer at the time. At that time, it was treated in a position that was not clear to the amendment promoter, a way of prescribing the obligation to pass the training, which was related to the provision of first aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26689	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26690	If I can explain what I just said. Replica. The position of Article 1 48 states - the controller is obliged to organise and conduct an investigation into an emergency. So it's clearly demarcated. So, in Article 3. The draft law categorizes accidents, i.e. incidents. We are merely at the point that the competent state authorities in this case need to investigate, and that whoever is the controller can have some other kind of investigation into the incident, or the disturbance, and where there are fatalities, the major handicrafts, we think it should clearly stand in the law to deal with the competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26691	Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VII, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished guests, MPs, I am now confused by the professional body of the government, according to Mrs. Minister. Earlier, he did not want to accept that the act of the manager was replaced by what is being handled by Article 40, which is the general terms of transport, and now it has accepted our amendment where the head VII bearing the original name in the law - concessions, which we have suggested to be called - the public private partnership and concessions, that it would accept, after that in Article 50, to the next member, where what the legislator wrote as a subtitle - the decision to grant concessions, we restructured - the decision to grant concessions and a public private partnership, as referred to in Article 50, refused. Well, now give me a reasonable explanation. Why did you accept this amendment to our proposal - public private partnership and concessions to replace - concessions, and you did not accept the manager's act here to replace it, it's an act of the manager normally for anything to manage the act, there are several kinds of these acts, to replace with general terms of transport. After that, in article 50, you don't accept it again. Come on, tell those professional services in the government to level the criteria. If they don't accept something and stay rigid, they'll be consistent until the end. Don't half-change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26693	Do you complain, Mr. Bradiche, that this amendment has been accepted? (Blagoje Bradić from the place: No. I understand. Here you go. On behalf of the 50th and the 50th Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 50 so that we propose that the name above Article 50, which is now in the draft law - the decision to grant a concession is replaced and the decision to grant a concession and a public private partnership. We further predicted that the first word - let it be replaced by the word - should also be deleted. The content of the provisions under this article is also a public private partnership and concessions, and therefore we have proposed that the name above the member be expanded and that it should cover both concepts. The intervention in point 1 is grammatical in nature and, as regards attitude 3, it is proposed, given that this substance is governed by the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, to delete Article 3. The amendment is not accepted by reason that this very position opens the possibility of giving public private partnership and concessions, because this matter is not sufficiently detailed by the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions. Does this mean that the interest groups, which are called on to explain that they participated in the drafting of this bill, believe that there is a legal gap in the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions and that they have affected the filling of the gap by the Minister by means of a sublegal act to prescribe the content, manner and procedure of implementing the public competition?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26695	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26696	Thank you. So, a comment on this amendment, I would also like to offer an answer to the question we have heard about the previous amendment there. It is good, then, that there has been a change in the title above Chapter VII, i.e. the amendment proposed by that amendment. I believe that it is fully in the context of what is further discussed in a member of the law that follows. That's more than clear. There's no inconsistencies because for the third or fourth time today, we're calling for grammar, right, in some sense. Now I've heard the word, grammar. We can also look at the video. I heard, I heard, and look what we suggested as a title above the article. A grammatically wrong thing. I think it's clear why he can't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26697	Thank you. To the title above the article 51st and member of the 51st Amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the government has accepted this amendment. Article 51 falls within the scope of this law which speaks of supervision. The title above article 51 was – the type of supervision. We thought that the title was wrong, so we proposed the title – the exercise of supervision, and then in the same Article 51 after the position of 2. We also predicted a new position 3. as regards the issue of inspection supervision, the provisions of the law governing inspection supervision are applied if this law is not different. Once again, I can only say that this time the government had an understanding of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26699	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26700	Article 55 refers to the part bearing the name – the complaint and it reads – no appeal is allowed against the inspector's solution. An administrative dispute may be brought before the Administrative Court within 30 days of the date of delivery of the solution. The application shall not delay the execution of the inspection solution. We have suggested that this article be deleted, and we have received the opinion that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the transformation is not meaningful. Now I really don't understand if reshaping isn't meaningful. Well, you've lifted the right to appeal given by the Act of Investigations that we've adopted for 10 days. You have abolished the right to two degrees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26701	Please, Mr. Radenkovic, allow Mr. Bradic to complete the ironing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26702	I don't mind. I learned. It's not a problem. I ask you, Madam Minister, to accept this proposal and to either give two-stage in the work of the inspectors, i.e. To file a complaint or to remove this member from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26703	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26704	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the sake of the public, I would like to say that article 56 says, "The manager is obliged to deliver the inspector in good time," and then lists what is needed to be delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26705	Sit in front, Mr. Radenkovic, you may hear better. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26706	With the amendment, we suggested that the word “good times ” be replaced by“ within the time limit set by the inspector. ” First, for the reason that "good times" is a very vague and flexible concept and could lead to a delay in proceedings, and even more so because the term "in the time period set by the inspector" is in accordance with the inspection control law that we have adopted in the near past. This amendment has been accepted and that is why I am expressing satisfaction, but I just want to say, that's why I answered the word, that this amendment shows that we really wanted to have a constructive impact on the quality of the law, on the comprehensibility, on clarity, and therefore I urge that amendments that have not been accepted be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26707	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26708	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party-Together for Serbia-Green Serbia reads carefully all the laws show exactly the amendment the government has accepted. In Section – criminal provisions, Article 57 provides that a fine of 100 to 1,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person, and in point 1) says: “Do not determine a safe way of working a cabler”, in accordance with the provision of Article 5(1) of this Act. If you see Article 5 of this Act, you can see that it refers to cable records and that it does not apply to Article 6, which actually refers to requirements and conditions for construction and reconstruction and maintenance of cableways, i.e. to the safety of cableways. So it's good that the government has seen its mistake and has accepted this amendment, because, therefore, and to the joy of all those skiing, we hope that skiing will be far safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26709	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a Messenger of the people, Dr. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister, MPs, Article 59, reads: “The fine of between 50,000 and 200,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the controller if 1) does not provide adequate communication devices in accordance with Article 14(1) of this Act, 2) does not provide the equipment necessary to carry out the tasks of the executive worker in the vehicle,” in accordance with Article 15(4) of this Act. We propose a point 3) that says – does not provide the executive worker responsible for the operation of the facility with adequate working means and does not ensure that the executive worker is adequately trained to carry out the tasks in question, in accordance with Article 17(3). Further, point 3 becomes 4) and so until point 11. We have received an opinion – the amendment is not accepted because the objection is not adequately argued. I do not understand, if we carefully read Article 17(3), he reads: “The driver of the cableway is obliged to provide the executive worker responsible for the operation of the facility with adequate working resources and must ensure that the executive worker is adequately trained to carry out the tasks in question. “ If the driver is obliged to do something, it is logical that he is responsible for failing to perform his duty. There can be no breach of the executive worker, unless you think otherwise, so I would ask you to give your professional services an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26711	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26712	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have suggested that Article 60 point 3 point 1 be deleted. Point 3) reads: “This is a criminal provision which will punish an executive worker for the offence if, in point 3), says: “he does not have the appropriate means of working and assistance and is not adequately qualified to carry out the task in question,” in accordance with Article 17(3) of this Act. The legislator intended to sanction this behavior, but it was wrongly placed in Article 60 that regulates the executive worker's offence, not the cabler's violation, which should be because this is consistent with Article 17(3). "the obligation and duty of the driver of the cableway", and this amendment is an agreement with the amendment that we have submitted to Article 59. The promoter did not accept the amendment for reasons that the complaint was not adequately argued. We believe that we have reason enough to explain this amendment and that, together with stakeholders, when working on the draft law, the proposal should now read again Article 17(3), which reads: "The driver of the cableway is obliged to provide the executive worker responsible for the operation of the plant with adequate working means and must ensure that the executive worker is adequately trained to perform the tasks in question". If the driver is obliged to do something, it is logical that he is responsible for failing to perform his duty. There may be no infringement of an executive worker which does not have the appropriate means of working and assistance and is not adequately qualified to carry out the task in question, in accordance with Article 17(3) of this Act, if it was the responsibility of the cabler. So I suggest you reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26713	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26714	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 63 is located in the area where the transitional and final provisions are made. Paragraph 1 states: “Sublegal rules for the enforcement of this law will be passed within two years of the date of entry into force of this law. “ We have provided for a change in this deadline, and we consider it to be two years too long, so we have proposed six months. In addition to saying that we believe that the deadline of two years is too long for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, such a solution makes inapplicable provisions of this law, since the legislator himself has left all questions to be governed by sublaws, with Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure stipulating that the controller is obliged to coordinate his business and business with the provisions of this law within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this law. If these conditions are not met, the cable company's work approval shall be withdrawn and the cableways shall cease to operate, or such solutions shall be put in place so as not to be able to operate and to continue their work. The government's view on our amendment states: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is not possible to draft 33 sublaws within six months on a law governing an area that is regulated by law in the Republic of Serbia for the first time." I agree that this area in the Republic of Serbia is being edited for the first time, but without legal acts it is not possible to apply this law, which means that it will not be applied in the next two years. How will the controller coordinate its acts within a year, if sublegal acts will not be brought in two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26715	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26716	And two days ago, when we mentioned and talked about it here, I said that the deadline was too long and that deadline had to be reduced. I don't want to get into what the representatives of the Directorate have left this deadline. I'm now saying that the Department of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure accepts the amendment that you said, not for two years, but for six months, and that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26717	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26718	Article 66, proposed by the Government, reads: ‘Until the adoption of the act referred to in Article 45(6) of this Act, consider the serious accident referred to in Article 48(2) of this Act by the controller.’ We have suggested that this article be deleted, counting on it to be in line with the amendment that we have made to Article 48, but since Article 48, our amendment has been rejected to that member, and this amendment is groundless, and we are withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26719	Thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 66, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 66a after Article 66a, which reads: “The government submits to the National Assembly through the competent committee an annual report on the effects of the application of this law. ” The amendment envisions introducing the government's obligation to carry out the effects of applying this law to the National Assembly for several reasons. First of all, because the National Assembly plays a control role in law enforcement, and this is the matter that is first regulated and the area that is becoming more and more relevant in our country. Tourism is developing and it is developing a lot of winter tourism and skiing, so, with all the risks this area carries and with all the effects it should have on the economy of our country, and I say that the matter that is first regulated, we believe that it should be introduced and the obligation to report to the Assembly. Of course, the amendment has not been accepted, because this amendment has been assessed as incomplete and we do not understand why it is not appropriate to report to the Assembly on the application of the law when it is Parliament's duty to follow the law. So I suggest you reconsider the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26721	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Transit Agreements in Železnik SAOBLOĆAJ You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the National MPs: Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićić, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Home, Ivan Karić and Dr Blažje Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, the Honored Mrs Mihajlovic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry and I suppose from "The Railways of Serbia", I want today to announce our amendment debate on the draft legislation on transport contracts in railway traffic to announce my satisfaction with the effects of joint work by you, Mrs Mihajlovic, and of all members and members of your team, and us MPs of the New Party in the context of the principle and amendment of this draft law on transport contracts in railway traffic. I'd also like the chair of today's session to count on me and the amendment time, if I exceed these two minutes, because I want to use this first address today to give a few broader notes, but also those related to this particular amendment. People's MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, as I think known to other MPs, have submitted 12 amendments to this bill and 12 amendments submitted, to inform the MPs above all, there may be some who are not informed about it, 10 are accepted, respected gentlemen, and that is to Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 22, 23, 34, 60 and 70. It happened for the first time in our work here in this year that five-sixths of our submitted amendments have been accepted here. I think it's worth a special importance in our today's dialogue. Of the 12 amendments submitted, it was not only accepted to apply that term, the two amendments, to Articles 5 and 72. First of all, I would like to announce here Mrs. Mihajlovic that we accept the reasons for not accepting these amendments. Let me repeat here once again that we will vote for this bill in full. This means the next thing, I think it's good to hear, that a good bill on transport contracts in railways has come to this assembly, and by adopting our 10 amendments one good bill, gentlemen, has become even better. I think it can be an example, perhaps even a model, perhaps the ideal of our joint legislative work in an institution like our National Assembly. To remind another MP, the central political institution in our political system. I'd like to say two more notes here, gentlemen. It is one thing for me and personally to particularly appreciate the responsibility in the approach of the promoter, both in the preparation of the bill, and we also see today in the analysis of the amendments submitted. It's been carefully approached. We have some decisions that concern improving the legal proposal. These improvements, to mention to the MPs here, concern three aspects of this bill. One aspect is a language aspect, gentlemen. It's important that we take care of the language. Today we have one agreement here that our language is an important thing. Yesterday, for example, we didn't have a situation like that. Minister Vulin didn't show any particular interest in it, but today we've fixed the situation. The second thing, we also agreed today on the precision of certain provisions of this law, because what becomes the law must not be inaccurate, indeterminate. We don't have a situation here. The third thing, we have also offered to replace some of the proposed solutions to the new, it seems to us, better solutions and it is generally accepted. In that venture, I think we made it through this debate today. I have here at the very end of this first address to add another piece of information to all the MPs. In a year's work in this assembly in the National Assembly, I think in a year's worth of work in this institution, a total of 60 of our amendments of 1,200 amendments have been adopted. When it's transferred to percentages, gentlemen, it's 5%. In a year's time, the New Party has secured, symbolically speaking, the censorship of gentlemen. In the coming years, we continue at the same pace, so that no fall happens by chance, but on the contrary, it is now our idea to reach ten percent in the following year, up to 15 percent of the amendments adopted there and up to twenty, so that these percentages are also a reflection of our participation in the next parliamentary elections, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26723	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26724	Thank you. In the principle debate, I said that this is a good law that has a great chance of becoming very good when our amendments are adopted, so we can declare it a very good law at this point. I hope that in the implementation of the next year when the effects of the law are seen and perhaps some mistake that no one now sees coming through the additional amendments to the great law, it is a perfectly logical approach and process of methodologies in the making of good laws. The reasons are clear, the law that has defined it so far since 1995, it is another state, other relations, probably the same problems in the railways, since they have been older since 1995, but it was certainly necessary to pass a new law that would first create that legal basis for the upcoming reform and transformation of the railway. I hope that we will finally get into that and that is also harmonising with what the EU requires with its instructions. It is certain that the situation in the Railways is bad and it is not very directly related to the amendment, I think it is a good opportunity to say something, for sure that it is not from yesterday, it is one of the few things that even the most radical opposition such as the New Party cannot blame the new authorities, because this situation is very bad long ago and there is no doubt there. There weren't many attempts to change that condition for the better. It was a lot of ideas, thinking, thinking, thinking, but generally without serious approaches. If the strategy now is to divide "Serb Railway" into these three parts, to transport people, goods and infrastructure, I think it was an idea and to be a holding company, I think it's a completely wrong story, I don't know what holding would be, except for one place for fostering people who can't manage in other positions. These three, if three new companies are created, they can communicate with each other without holding and without that part, if there is some reason concerning some of the past deposits that have to be solved through holding, such as loans or something, but then it needs to be limited, the duration of the company, it is also possible to do so. Of course, transformation itself won't be enough. There is much work to be done to transport goods and transport passengers, but first of all, the transport of goods, because I think that in the transport of railway passengers, lost the battle for one longer period, to return the market, to make more goods to be transported. As I recall, while Sartid worked full steam there in 2005-2006, nearly 70-80% of freight transport was transport for the needs of Sartid, it is a very bad data. It's a good thing Sartid was working at the time, and it's a bad thing that the other whole traffic is so small. I think you should give up while it's time for the ideas of the high-speed stripes. We've been listening to this idea for 20-30 years and it's about as successful as the idea of a Swedish standard in Serbia. First of all, I mean the Belgrade-Budapest railway and the revitalisation of the Belgrade-Montenegro railway. Freight transport does not require faster railways, fast railways that are 150-200 km per hour, simply so does not drive goods, and I do not think there will be any major interest in passenger traffic, and I also think of the Belgrade-Montenegro railway which, even when it is made, is made of political and very little with some economic raid. It was a purely political story, as Luke at least 95% is a purely political story. It is a port, as far as we know, semi-intelligenced or slightly informed, which practically has a little traffic, which has problems with the depth of the sea at the port itself, that it is complicated to approach many more serious ships and cargoes, so it is not a port that is vital to Serbia, rather it will be Luka Belgrade, Luka Thessaloniki and Kopar and Trieste than it is Luka Bar. It may be Montenegro's interest is very high that the railway is in better shape, but I don't think Serbia's interest is that significant. What are priorities in Serbia regarding rail traffic, of course, is a "Prokop" which I don't know who didn't tell all the praises and promised, and it should end and I think it's a good solution regardless of the dream of "Belgrade on Water", and without it, it's a good and necessary solution. Two other priorities in my opinion and I think not only mine are related to my hometown. It is one thing to move from the centre of Nis a railway communication that really passes through the epicenter with major problems that can be placed there and as far as dangerous burdens are concerned, as well as normal traffic. The issue of dangerous burdens is also important for Belgrade and that "Prokop" does not solve the whole problem of dangerous burdens. The question is what happens to the dangerous burdens that come from Pancheva, and they're very common and of course what's our current mess and what we have to do as soon as possible, it's the electrification of the Nis-Bulgarian border because it's the only part of the railroad probably worse than Oslo to Tehran that's not on the electricity, and it has to be done, it's in our interest and as far as I know the boo and some credits got and I haven't heard it happen or I've seen it have some work. The corridor is much more important than the road corridors, the Nis-Bulgarian border. The Nis-Bulgarian border was fixed ten years ago and its pass was raised. Making a brand-new highway in a full profile in two directions is a waste of money. He could have made another profile...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26725	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26726	Another sentence, but it is much more important that this money is used for what is already a priority, which is the electrification of the Nis-Bulgaria border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26727	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26728	A few additions, although you said most of it, but let me confirm. You asked holding and reforming the railways, we did go, it can't be over all of a sudden, it's gonna take time, but besides reforming it, it's got to go in parallel to rebuilding the construction of the railroad, it can't do it without each other. Holding will have a limited duration, two years precisely because of the past and everything we have in Railways. We can't burden three new companies that need to work and work. What is the chance of Serbia in every sense and in every type of infrastructure, including in rail, or transport infrastructure, is the transport of goods or cargoes, and it is also estimated that when the reconstruction of the 530km rail line is completed in the next three years, that is the plan and that is what is already being done, that there will be an increase and transportation of passengers and the transport of goods. The passenger transport currently from the present 17 is estimated at 30 million, and we'll see if that's real and what we'll have in a year, that's how we'll measure it. When we talk about transporting goods, there will be an increase from 11 million to 18 million tons. Our assessment at the Ministry is, when we talk about goods, that it is possible and more, but it is also a huge step towards the current state we have in the Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26729	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26730	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with my fellow farmer in one thing that the Belgrade-Bar track is a political matter. So I believe that many politicians from Montenegro came to Serbia, and he himself should imagine that he did not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26731	Please, Mr. Risticevic, don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26732	I don't understand. How?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26733	When you say they came from Montenegro, don't insult them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26734	I say a lot of politicians came by that railroad, and you believe it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26735	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26736	Listen, Mr. Becic, do you want to introduce censorship here or what do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26737	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26738	I say I agree that the Belgrade-Bar track is a political matter. In my fellow farmer's previous speech, that's what was said and I absolutely agree with him. If that were not the case, I ask where would numerous politicians from Montenegro, with whom the railway would come, and if that were not the case, and he would not be in parliament alone now. Secondly, we would have run out of such precious docents, if I didn't know who would have been in the Faculty of Political Sciences that the Belgrade-Bar track was not a political matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26739	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26740	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I do not have such a romanticed explanation, but there is gratitude in me for the adoption of this amendment. Let me explain to the citizens, this article 4 also concerns tariff definitions. Tariffs or railway tariffs shall be defined in all respects of the transport of goods, i.e. consignors, the transport price, as well as other transport costs. You also define the necessity of the public of these tariffs, i.e. that carriers are obliged to publish and publish tariffs in public. We only helped make these tariffs better or more visible. You say they're public, or you define to the member that they're public when they're made public by the users themselves, in printed or electronic form. Since there is a wide range of electronic forms, we have defined that they should be published on the official website of the carrier. I think you've done a good job accepting this amendment. Namely, we've filed 14 amendments, you've accepted 12. With gratitude, I think we've done a good job together, and that means we'll support and vote in favour of this law. Part of these amendments is part of the language nature. I also owe our fellow Members of the Parliament Club who helped us define these amendments. Once again to draw the line, so I will no longer, with that in mind, report to the amendments that are of a linguistic nature, but only by those amendments that are essential to nature. Once again, gratitude for the adoption of 12 amendments. I think we did a good job together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26741	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Bečić, respected Mrs Mihajlović and honored guests and guests, associates and associates of Mrs Mihajlovic today, I decided to explain or comment on only one part of the amendments accepted because I think it is good to always say something that is well done as an example and not to lose those opportunities when there are, and today we have one such opportunity. Just as compared to our third amendment concerning Article 4, I would like to present this amendment and the adoption of the amendments as an example of one dedicated mutual work in relation to the proposed law. Here's what this amendment is all about, simple and people's MPs to see and citizens to see that there's some dedicated work going on here sometimes around some proposals. The government has proposed in Article 4, in the last position, the following formula – Increase of transport costs and other changes and additions to tariffs making transport conditions difficult, cannot be applied before the expiry of the tariff fixed. We, of course, have carefully read this bill, noticed that, in addition to the increase, there may be a reduction and then we suggested that there should be no increase in transport costs, but rather more precisely - a change in transport costs that implies both the possibility of an increase and the possibility of a reduction. Of course, one commitment, responsibility and seriousness have led us to accept it through this amendment and, of course, to specify wherever possible what is contained in one bill. Just one more sentence to add, Mr. Becic, I will not comment today on any amendments that have not been accepted, I repeat, because we accept an explanation for not accepting the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26743	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for these words. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. No one's answering for a word. Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, Article 8 speaks the following – Transport documents are sold to persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility at no extra cost. The carrier, ticket seller or transporter may not require persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility to be accompanied by another person when entering or leaving the train until it is really necessary. In the last position, where we have invested the amendment, you say the carrier must provide free assistance to persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility on the train and while entering and leaving the train. We have suggested that this position 5 be changed and that it reads: "The carrier is obliged to provide persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility with a smooth entry and exit from the train, as well as a suitable place on the train and/or additional services whose provision is required for disability or reduced mobility", so that this member is now clearer, more concrete and will not bring about those to whom the doubt applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26745	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branak Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blažje Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26746	Dear Chairman, this is an amendment to Article 10 that we proposed to allow a passenger who for some reason failed to buy a ticket in time, for example, came at the last minute, let's say there was no electricity, so that someone on the train would not subjectively appreciate whether he had not bought a ticket for justified or unjust reasons, we suggested that he be allowed to buy a ticket on the train, only if he refused, yes, only then could he not use transportation. This is a bond law, referring to what the minister said, so it's not a status law. However, you, Madam Minister, have spoken of the fact that it is possible to do fast tracks, that it is possible to implement some projects, I just remind you of things you haven't done, and you should do it before implementing these projects. So try painting those train stations for now. If you were, I was at a train station a few days ago, there's graphics for years, they've been standing there for years. Try to cut the grass next to the train stations. Try to finish that "Jell bridge". You didn't tell us when the work on that bridge would continue. Try to complete projects that have already received loans before we talk about the realization of some new projects. We remember in the '90s, loans for a state rebirth, and so on, which have never been completed, and the rest are just pillars as monuments of an incompetent government and government. Let's finish what we can finish with the resources we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26747	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zoran Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26748	You would always do something with me if you were to settle down, and you couldn't find the right subject, because all you're saying is exactly the problems your party president left behind. Also, when you say '90s, loans, to remind you that I was 20 years old, I haven't been in Serbia's political life yet, but I'm also going to tell you about some other loans, about the loans your party president has made in the past 10 years, or depending on what time period, maybe seven, I've concluded all over the world without saying again, and that no one, no one knew, knew first of all, whether he had any projects and how and how he owed himself. Because, basically, even though he was the president of the state, it was essentially him who ran all these negotiations. We can see that now when we travel around the world, and I don't know whose name it begins and discusses certain additional loans. So what you're saying, you'd like to talk to me, I think it's a shame, I urge you to have no problem putting that train station together that you've been on, but I'm also inviting you to get on the train, because all the last 10 years and more, your reigns, we have trains going on average 25 kilometers per hour. This reconstruction that we are now starting to do Belgrade – Bar, is to return it to projected speed, which is 80 to 120 kilometers. So, if it bothers you so much, it bothers all of us, it bothers the graphite at the train station, here, I invite you to do it together, it's not a problem for me, and I believe it won't be a problem for you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26749	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26750	You were 20 years old, Mrs Mihajlovic, but your political mentors Seselj, Nikolic, Vukic were then in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26751	Mr. Veselinović, I'm going to ask you something. Let's think about that from the moment we got out of the O.R., until you came back, we had one quality debate, no such things, no call for replicas, no call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and all that. As soon as you're back, you're causing incidents in this room again. I ask you to look up to your colleagues, your MP group and discuss these amendments and this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26752	Mr. Becic, I know you're ashamed of your radical past, but there's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26753	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, just to say that amendments to transport contracts for goods and passengers in railway transport are being discussed, I have heard here about the "Zelj Bridge". I can see from the simple proposal that this is not the subject of this amendment. Either we're talking about amendments or we're talking about "The Iron Bridge" and I don't mind, but then we have to tell them what it was that bothered them to make it for the past 12 years as much as they were in power as a party of the former regime in the Republic of Serbia. What bothered them to do so as a 15-year-old government in the AP Vojvodina if they were so eager for the Iron Bridge. So, some criticism that someone hasn't done in two years what they haven't done in 12 years when over 50 billion euros were leaked from this country, according to international organisations, that they've brought out oligarchs so much as my esteemed colleague says oligarchs differently, but I think it's right to say oligarchs, although I'm not a university professor. So many of them, together with their helpers, have been brought out in the past 12 years, from 2000 to 2012. It could be built then, there was money. At that time, they shared their hands and hats, mostly with their friends, and at that time it was not made, and now it was time to live on the earned and to build on the earned, not on the man in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26755	Thank you. Only if you allow me to say that I am proud of these 18 years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and 18 years in political life. So I'm not ashamed of anything. Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26756	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Mihajlovic, this is one of those amendments whose adoption is very important, so also thanks for simply accepting this amendment. I don't believe this is deliberately so defined, I believe it's probably also a low-level processor. In fact, this Article 12 defines whom the carrier is not obliged to take on the train. You define that the carrier is not obliged to accept the transport of a person who can reasonably be presumed to disable the carrier, i.e. an executive carrier in the performance of its obligations to other passengers. Here you define persons under the fact of alcohol or narcotics, persons who behave rudely or who do not comply with the applicable rules. It is a good definition, that is, this part of the definition is good, such faces can create problems for both the carrier and the passengers, but in a further definition you say – and persons who would be harassing other passengers on the train for sickness or other reasons. Without having to go into definitions or further elaborate the definition of disease, I think we realized that this could be part of a sentence that brings one discriminatory note into this law and therefore thanks once again for accepting this amendment. I think we came together to throw out this potential discriminatory note from this law and make this law better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26757	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26758	In this amendment, we have proposed that human life is not estimated to be 17,5 000 euros. This article found that the biggest damage the carrier can pay in the event of an infringement and a health disorder and in the event of the death of passengers, that it is inappropriate and that the truth exists in our legislation. However, they are a relic of a time that is not unique to the social circumstances in which we live today. You know that even in Anglo-Saxon law, and in some other systems, in case of injury, damage to health or death, in any particular case, it is estimated what the damage is, and even negotiates with the family or with the person who is damaged. I believe that this provision is inappropriate to the current social circumstances and that it in some way exposes the risk of passengers in rail traffic that in the event of injury, health or death violations will not be adequate satisfaction for the consequences. In that sense, I believe that you should have left the provision that the court should determine the amount of damage to be paid by the carrier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26759	Thank you. Just a notice that you don't have more time than a parliamentary group, and no time from an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, you've used it a long time ago. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26760	Not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because when they listen to your reasons for the amendments, and they don't hear the government's explanation for why it's not accepted, I can think, and I hope it never will, which is that the government doesn't only care about security, but it doesn't care about people's lives. So, the explanation of the amendment why your amendment has not been accepted, it says here nicely – it is not accepted because this article is in accordance with Article 30(2). Convention on international rail transport of COTIF. So the amount that was put in, first of all, is not, when you said, you said 17,500, it was probably a random mistake, so 175,000, and it was done according to the International Convention, not because someone sat down on an arbitrary basis and decided it was this much, less or more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26761	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26762	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last announcement today about an amendment debate, about an amendment that was accepted, and I think that's because the argument was very good. It was also important for me to report to this amendment because it happened in one of the articles of the bill that I recognized something that I could sometimes use myself, using exactly rail transport. We read this Article 23, and in paragraph 2 we read the following – live animals and bicycles are transported as baggage under the conditions of the prescribed tariff. We thought we needed to make a kind of difference. That difference here is also seen as something that should exist. Live animals and should be transported as baggage under conditions prescribed, but bicycles are a special thing for all those who use those bikes. I guess it's our idea here that as many of our citizens as possible use bicycles for transportation, then they can put those bikes somewhere without paying extra fees. We then suggested a special item 3 here. – bikes are transported as manual luggage if they are brought into the car provided for such transport. Of course, all our citizens should know and all of us here, who may not be more careful to read all of this, that from the moment of adoption of this law, the entry into force, that the carriage of bicycles will not be charged additionally, and I think it's really okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26763	Thank you. The 33rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26764	Thank you. Based on the previous amendment, it is a similar matter. Someone who listened to you, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, would think you were taking care of the citizens of Serbia, and that is not true. The provision of a cited convention is of a dissuasive nature, not of an imperative nature, and leaves the parties to the parties with the possibility that these offices may otherwise or prescribe another amount. On the other hand, this amendment to Article 33(1) is of the same nature, but what is the problem here? The problem is that you don't see the legal nature of things that are in traffic here. The legal nature of things that are here in traffic is what is rightly called a thing given on hand. It's not about the thing left behind and never the responsibility of the receiver is limited to the estimated value when it comes to things given on hand. When you leave your luggage in the room and you do not leave it in a certain place in the hotel, then the hotel organization corresponds to the maximum legal amount. It's the same with the things that turn themselves in, in this case the vehicle, which is handed over to the transport organisation. So, the thing is handed over to the transport organization and it can't be limited in this way. Again, there is a convention and there is a dissuasive provision. But why couldn't someone send a car more expensive than this amount by rail transport, why couldn't they specifically contract with the Railways to make its premium bigger and the carrier's responsibility would also be maximised?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26765	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the 70th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26766	The Honorable Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, is good that the government has accepted this amendment, just so that fellow MPs, citizens who follow, know what it is. So, we predicted that Article 115 which speaks of the provisions of this law will not apply to the relations in the contract on the transport of passengers and things in railways concluded until the day of entry into force of this law. We made a proposal for an add-on. The government has accepted, except in cases where the conditions of transport of passengers and things are established by this consumer law more favourable than the terms of the contract. We think that it is good and that in this way we may be able to facilitate the business of certain companies, as well as that citizens will be able, practically, to use all the benefits that this law provides immediately, regardless of whether some of the contracts that have been made under the old law and not according to this new one have been concluded earlier, and it is good that the Government has adopted this amendment and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26767	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that a new article 116a be added after article 116a. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26768	This is the last amendment to this law. As a rule, we submit this kind of amendment, that at the end of each law a member is added – the government submits to the National Assembly through the competent committee an annual report on the effects of the implementation of this law, and each time the amendment has been rejected and the justification is always the same. He says – The government submits an annual report on the work in which the Ministry of the National Assembly lists all activities of the ministry, so that it will contain formations on the effects of the application of this law. The only problem is that the government does not deliver this annual report to the Assembly, as well as many other things. That is why we will continue to insist on finding in every law a provision which obliges the ministry to report to the Assembly on the effects of applying every law we adopt, including today. We will stop when the government starts sending an annual report, and we MPs will be able to hear what the government has done. The government has been promoting the press conferences in various places for the past year, talking about what has been done, but these reports, as they present them to the public, are not being discussed in the Assembly. We don't have a chance to get that, to see, to get to know each other and possibly bring out some criticism, as well as to ask whether everything in these reports and presentations is true or not, whether these are just beautiful pictures that the Government wants to paint about the present, life in the Republic of Serbia or not. That's why we're going to insist, no matter what these amendments keep saying, that this kind of solution is found in this law, as we have suggested in all the other laws lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26769	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26770	For the sake of the public, Serbian citizens, every three months, at meetings of assembly committees, each ministry, depending on which committee it belongs, submits a report on its work. All the representatives of the ministry are here to clarify the report, the MPs here to ask, to give suggestions and we do it very regularly. In doing so, I don't think it's bad, I even think it's good and nice to talk to the public about everything the government has done and what's different from what was before. So, in addition to having on the assembly committees, I am obliged to make an additional commitment, if that is not enough and not arrive at the assembly committees, to send all these reports to every MP in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-23-0.u26771	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a review of the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear People's MPs, we are working on Tuesday, April 28th, starting at 10.00 p.m., discussing the details of the draft laws of the 6th and 7th agenda. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, for participating in today's session and all the MPs. Thank you.
