ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37174	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and an explanation based on Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation or notification in accordance with Article 287. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37175	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, on today's 22 October 1992, 16 citizens of this country's Bosniak nationality, the North, were kidnapped, tortured and brutally killed just because they were Bosniaks. They were stopped by bus on the regular Rudo – Pribobe, on the bridge over Lim in the town of Mioce, by members of the "Revengeers" unit under Milan Lukic's command. After the legitimateisation of all passengers, only Bosniaks, 15 men and one woman took them to Visegrad by truck, to the Villa Vlasi motel, where they were searched, brutally beaten and then shot on the banks of the Drina River. The Bosniaks who were kidnapped, tortured and killed that day were called: Mehmed Shebo, Medredin Hodzic, Zafer Hadzic, Medo Hodzic, Ramiz Begovic, Dervis Softic, Mithat Softic, Mujo Alihodzic, Alija Mandal, Sead Pecicosa, Mustafa Barjamovic, Hajrudin Sitarevic, Esad Djihic, Ibriz Gigovic, Ramahudin Ćatović, Imavlida Koldzic, born Hodzic. The only remains found so far are Medredin Hodzic's remains in Lake Perućac in 2010, while others' bodies are still being searched for. The night before this crime, unknown perpetrators kidnapped Sabahudin Catovic from the North, otherwise the brother of one of the hijacked from the bus. Neither his body has been found to date, nor has his abduction and murder been covered by a criminal act. As a representative of the Bosniak people in this parliament, I demand an explanation from Prime Minister Vukic and Minister of Justice, why are these kidnapped, tortured and murdered civilians, citizens of this country, Bosniaks still not recognised by Serbia as the civilian victims of the war? Family members of these victims have initiated administrative procedures to obtain the status of members of the civilian victim of war. However, all their demands have been rejected. In 2007, families of victims filed damages charges against the Republic of Serbia over its logistical and financial support to the Bosnian Serb military and paramilitary units, for the failure of state authorities to protect their citizens at the state border they crossed. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has found that the right to a fair trial has been violated in this case, the trial has not been completed today, and the case is currently in front of the Supreme Cassation Court. This behaviour of the state and its courts towards the missing and murdered Bosniaks and their families is very difficult and serious messages for the entire Bosniak people in Serbia. Today, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic tells reporters in his new routine that he wants good relations with the Bosniaks. But the truth is that neither he himself nor any state institution has done anything concrete for the missing and murdered Bosniaks from the Sandzak territory. What's more, they did the opposite. In addition to the abduction victims in the North, there are also the victims of the hijacking of the train in Strpci, the victims of the shelling of the village Kukurovici in the municipality of Priboj by the Užic Corps and others, and all of them were Bosniaks, citizens of this country. These people are victims of organised military and paramilitary structures in Serbia. So I end up with a question for the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic -- why did this government, whose leader, halt the programme of sustainable return of exiled Bosniaks in the Municipality of Pryboj, when instead of empty statements in the media, will do something concrete about the missing and murdered Sandzaks from the 1990s, what is he personally going to do about it and within what time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37176	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37177	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in connection with the 23rd anniversary of the abduction and murder of 17 Bosniaks in the North, I would like to remind, above all, all MPs of this difficult and painful moment, primarily for the Republic of Serbia and then for all its citizens. From a bus on the Priboj-Rudo line, in Mioce, citizens of the Republic of Serbia were taken to Visegrad, killed and dumped in Drin. They were killed when they went to work and only because they weren't Serbs. The Hague tribunal has been sentenced to life imprisonment by Commander Lukic, but it is only a small part of justice. We can't believe that only Commander Lukic killed these innocent victims. So we'd like to mention that the monument itself waited 23 years to mark these victims. I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Policy a question and ask him to put the law on the rights of civilian victims in the assembly procedure as soon as possible, in violation of human rights in the armed conflicts between 1991 and 2001, that such a law should be found before the Members of the Assembly as soon as possible. I suffer in the North and all the other war victims of this year and all the other war victims, the innocent victims of the bombing in Kosovo, the innocent victims of other nationalities, at least this law will be partially reprieved. I think it is our obligation and I think it is the minimum that this Assembly and the Republic of Serbia should do in terms of establishing justice and trust among the peoples living in our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37178	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37179	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue of the current topic has to do with Sunday's parliamentaryism, in which all MPs participate more or less. These days we meet different civil society organisations, different associations of citizens. Citizens come on their own with their problems or with their interests, and on the work of parliament and on the work of institutions. The most engaged in all this is the Open Parliament and during several sessions from Monday to today we have really talked to many civil society organisations. The informal green parliamentary group that exists in parliament, which gathers MPs from different political options, is constantly talking about how ecology is above politics and how ecology should not know the political boundaries. It is shown by this question that I am going to address to the government and the competent ministries today, it is shown that it is only a delusion that all other political parties talk about when they talk about protecting the environment and environmental and, like any party policy, so green policy is one serious policy. Unfortunately, four years of green politics and environmental policy in Serbia do not exist. That is why Serbia is at the edge of an ecological disaster, which is why every day in a city of Serbia, in a town of the forest, in a town of Vojvodina, in one town of western, eastern and southern Serbia, there is a smaller or larger ecological disaster. According to the 2014 Annual Air Quality Report, the Agency for the Protection of the Environment annual concentrations of sulfur dioxide are above the limit. In Bor, the concentration was all over the place. Technical Faculty 343 micrograms per metre cubic, city park 331, Jugopetrol 281, Slatina 142, Institute 129, is allowed 50 micrograms per metre cubic. As well as the excesses of daily border concentrations and values, the most common were in Bor during 2014. A technical college of 314 days means that citizens of Bora living near the Technical Faculty 314 days live in extremely polluted conditions, and there is no question about it in the state media. Southpetrol 245 days, city park 245 days, all those children and babies walking through the city park in Bor 245 days are walking in an extremely polluted environment. During 2014, maximum daily concentrations of sulfur dioxide were in Bor, the city park 3.339 micrograms per metre cubic, Technical Faculty 2.040 micrograms per metre cubic, Jugopetrol 1,851 micrograms per metre cubic, Institute 1.217 micrograms per metre. All of this Bor ranks in the third category by environmental pollution and air pollution, and the frequency of overdoing daily limit values has been recorded almost daily since 2010. Very polluted by categorization, the Bohr Air Agency is due to sulfur dioxide and is recording the trend of growth in recent years. Air pollution is one of the leading risk factors for health. Experts have warned that the presence of sulfur dioxide in the air affects a significant free chronic respiratory disease, as well as an increased incidence of lung cancer. High humidity of air and fog increases the risk of the formation of sulfuric acid that acorbose on aerosol particles penetrates the lungs, where it damages alveol membranes and thereby reduces the vital capacity of the lungs. On all this, unfortunately, in the media, in the state media, there is nothing in the regimeal media above all about Bor. You have the impression that what is shown on TV is Serbia, and Serbia is in Bor today. Serbia is in Vranje today, in Leskovac. Serbia is in Obrenovac today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37180	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have one question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the signature on the Investment Law proposal, which we need to discuss today, his or hers forgery? And when he answers that question, I ask him to answer the questions whether the signature he put or who put on his name a lex specialis on the construction of Beograd on water and the Law on Land Conversion, are these all his signatures or are they falsified? The reason I'm asking is that sometimes because of these laws, someone will answer to the judicial authorities of this country, and then it doesn't turn out that the signature was falsified, as apparently very often turns out when some official documents come to the investigative and judicial authorities, but should Alexander Vukic tell us today whether his signatures were on these three of his documents or if someone forged them on his behalf? We have given this law incredible rights to the government to decide which investor will have a privileged position. Experience teaches us that these are investors who are close to a few people from the top of the SNS. With the conversion law, we donated to tycoons who participated in dubious privatisations all the land on which something was built, and the Lex specialis law on "Belgrade on Water", we found that there was a public interest in building malls, cafes and hotels, and funds are being allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are convinced that because of these laws and jobs that are based on them will be answered, so we ask that it be immediately determined whether these signatures are falsified. Of course, there is always the possibility that during the investigation, the signature on which Aleksandar Vukic claims that this signature is genuine falsified and then there is, of course, a magical instrument of polygraph, a criterion of all values, truths, justice and replacement for all judicial authorities in this country. Well, there's no problem in such a way as to examine the credibility of these signatures. The second question also goes to Mr. Alexander Vukic, does he think he would be able to stop judging in this country before the judicial authorities? I'll just remind myself of some cases that point to us that he judges people solely according to who's close to him and who isn't, so nobody in the SNS in advance is guilty of anything, and everyone in the DS in advance is guilty of everything, even in those cases where there are judicial judgments of the Republic of Serbia that these people are freed from guilt, and that still doesn't stop Alexander Vukic from declaring them thieves. On the contrary, Alexander Vucic knew immediately that the signature of Synchia Little was falsified, and he knew immediately that his brother's signature was falsified. He knew right away that his brother had been attacked by a gendarme without a cause. He knew immediately that the stupidest explanation he had read in his life was the explanation of scientists who declared Nebojsa Stefanovic a plagiarist. He knew immediately that Minister Gasic was not responsible for the deaths of seven people in a helicopter, so he said a sentence – I do not give Gasic and Loncara. He knew right away that everything was clear and that his best man couldn't be involved in any crimes. And if Aleksandar Vucic believes that he could refrain from such judgments in public before the judicial authorities, then the question for other competent authorities that would, in that case, take over this important job which remains with them and the Constitution, is whether they can, on the basis of facts, and not on the basis of the wishes, understanding and personal sympathy of Mr Vukic to make decisions, to carry out investigations and ultimately make judgments. In this sense, we ask that an examination be carried out for whose capital and in what capacity did Sinisha Mali sign contracts for the purchase of 24 apartments? We're not saying that he bought 24 apartments for himself. We're saying that he signed a contract that he bought on behalf of the company. Who's behind that firm? Whose capital is it? And while we are in the Virgin Islands, in the neighborhood, may he examine and who is behind his godfather's company in the Virgin Islands?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37182	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37183	The esteemed chairman, respected co-workers and colleagues, is the reason for my current issues with the war crimes prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia's Prosecutor General Serge Brammertz officially in Sarajevo as part of his preparations for the six-month reports to the Security Council. During his stay, officially in Sarajevo, Mr Brammertz met with families of missing persons, with a delegation of the Federation of Campers, who expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is not doing its job properly, or is not pressing charges against war criminals, against Serbs. I will only list a few examples that best show the extent of the crimes against the Serb people during the defence of the country's war in BiH, without doing anything on the plan. The first example is the village of Sekovac in the municipality of Brod, in Bosnia's Posavina, and this is the first mass crime at the beginning of the war in BiH, when nine Serb civilians were killed. Then, we have crimes in other places of the municipality of Brod, then in the municipalities of Oresje, Odzak, Brcko, Dervent, nothing was done at the processing of war crimes on the Bosnian Posavina. Then, we have numerous crimes in the Sarajevo area, from Voluntary Street. According to the Alliance of Campers, in the Sarajevo area, there were 126 Serb camps during the war, I will mention only some of the most notorious, such as Silos, Kasarna Viktor Bubanj, and then Yama told, where they were killed in a beastly manner by Sarajevo Serbs and thrown there. Nothing has been done by the BiH prosecutor's office to launch the prosecution of crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo. Then, we have numerous crimes in Podrinj, by the forces of Naser Oric, in the municipalities of Srebrenica, Zvornik, Bratunac, Vlassica, Skelani. And there is also nothing done to punish the perpetrators of the crime against Serbs in the area. We have numerous crimes by the Fifth Corps Army, the BiH Army, headed by Atif Dudakovic in 13 western municipalities. This was also the case in 1994/95. The years and strengths of the Croatian Army, they have committed aggression on that part of the Serb people's territory. There are also numerous crimes from the village of Kamen in Glamoc, then crimes in Drvar, the village of Caprazija, Grahovo, then in Livn, Krupa and the biggest crime was in Mrkonjic town, where Croatian forces beastly killed 181 Serbs and buried in a common mass grave. Unfortunately, it has been 20 years since the end of the war in BiH, and we are in fact still standing at the beginning in connection with punishing criminals from the Bosniak-Croatian people against Serb prisoners and civilians. I'd like to ask, or I'd like to say one piece of information first. At the War Crimes Prosecutor's site, it was announced that in 329 war crimes cases, our prosecution exchanged information, evidence with war crimes prosecutors in Croatia, BiH, Montenegro and UNMIK, or EULEX. Of that number, with Croatia's 166, with Sarajevo 53, with Podgorica 13 and UNMIK and EULEX 97. I'm asking three questions to our war crimes prosecutor's office. First, how many war crimes cases are involved in crimes against Serbs in Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, KIM? The second question, in how many war crimes cases have the prosecutions of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, or UNMIK, have EULEX brought charges in connection with crimes against Serbs? And the third question, when will our war crimes prosecutor's office launch investigations into all those cases for which it has concrete evidence and information that crimes against Serbs have been committed, and this has not been initiated by the competent prosecutors in Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, or UNMIK, EULEX. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37184	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Djurović, Mladen Grujic, Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. Since the conditions have been met, I suggest that I establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign a member of Parliament to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Marinkovic, elected from the election list Boris Tadic - Nova Democratic Party – Zeleni – LSV Nenad Canak, Together for Serbia – Together for Vojvodina – the Democratic Left of Roma. On the basis of the RIK Decision, the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law of the People's Assembly, approach the oath: (The President reads the text of the oath, the Messenger of the people repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Željko Sertić, Minister of Business, Dusan Purić, Deputy Minister of Industry, Daniel Vazura, Director of the Agency for Licensing of Bank Managers, Nermina Ljubović, Director of the Industry Chamber of Serbia, Radoje Savićić, Secretary of the Ministry of Industry, Marko Obradović, Dusan Korunovski and Andrijana Živanovic, Special Advisors of the Minister of Industry, Tamara Jurenić, Advisor of the Minister of Business, Branislav Pejčić, Head of Department at the Ministry of Business and Ivana Janacković, from the Ministry of Economy. You have received amendments submitted by the Ombudsman and MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, so we proposed to this Article 1 an amendment of the whole member, and we propose that it reads: "This law regulates the issue of importance for investment, the position of the rights and the obligation of investors, the type of investment and the incentive of investment, the provision of services to investors, the establishment and the work of the Serbian Development Agency", as well as other issues of importance for investing in the Republic of Serbia with a reason that the subject of the law contained in the law programme is not adequate and to the purpose of this law. From the point of view of the rules of legal normation is unacceptable, and the amendment I have read to you is proposed. Besides, how we believe that the Council for Economic Development should not exist because there is a ministry in which there are investment issues, erasure of this body and the whole law is a logical coincidence of our position. You have refused this amendment, I ask you to reconsider and accept our amendment, because we consider it to be a better solution than you have proposed to this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37186	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37187	I thank the MPs for the proposed amendment. The amendment doesn't change anything fundamentally, it's just a question of defining the member himself as it is. We have remained in a position to remain as defined and how the government adopted it and how we proposed it, since nothing fundamentally changes in the very sense of a member who was brought in the direction of defining the framework and the work of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37188	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37189	Next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37190	On the next amendment? Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37191	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister of Good Day, will be a long day I see, you have not accepted the amendment's opposition. So, I personally filed with colleagues of the 16 amendments, our parliamentary group over 40 amendments. One is, and that's just this language nature, everyone else gets caught up in the essence. So, there were no amendments to the amendment that now we're talking about what we may not have said in principle, but amendments that go into essence, I see none of them are accepted. Total of this law, as far as I've seen, almost 200 amendments. This law has 40 members. More than 200 amendments were submitted to the 40 members of the National Assembly. That suggests, Minister, that this law is not good. Not good, according to the Anti-Corruption Agency. She's made remarks on over 50% of the members you've filed. It points to that, and we point out that it contains elements, many members contain corrupt elements. That's exactly what we want to change with you. There's nothing in this revolutionary law, and that's what I'm talking about right now. I think that through one debate, we can come to the adoption of amendments to the opposition, not just DS, I read, great amendments and other MPs have submitted, and make this law the way it should be. Yeah, we need the investment law. He can't get through in this form, so I suggest we get into a debate and make this law better. This amendment, which we have submitted, says that the words "investment support entity for efficient provision of services to investors" are replaced by the words "entities directed at providing support to investors". I say, this is the first single amendment of language nature. He can and doesn't have to change this member substantially. I suggest you adopt it and once again, in the follow-up of the debate, we will discuss amendments that are intruding into essence, so I ask you to reconsider that we make this law better and adopt it, we need it, but not in this form, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37192	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37193	Thank you. The text of the draft law reads: "This law regulates the general legal framework for investment in the Republic of Serbia, support entities for investment in the efficient provision of services to investors, education and work of the Council for Economic Development and the establishment and operation of the Serbian Development Agency." If you don't see that this is unspeakable ill-written, then it's hard for us to understand what we think the effects will cause this law, and what evidence you don't provide for verbal praise of the law. This is illiterate. This is where anyone who reads has a hindrance, as it would be said, to bear the parable, and to agree according to the fruit, and to the number, and to fall. It has nothing to do with who's what the party member or what happened afterwards. It is not only but it is a paradigm for how the proposer refers to writing his own bill, especially to those who read the law and who want to improve the law. With this bill of law, it's just not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37194	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37195	We can and last time we talked about the very essence of the law, and I think we've spoken enough words to each other. We really believe that this law is necessary, that it is well written, that it is in line with the most important norms of world practice and for this to be supported, above all help, and then support the most important and international economic institutions, but also all business organisations in Serbia that function and which work and which are truly invited to participate in the realisation of this law. What I would like to answer to your previous question, that is, the finding that we have a large number of amendments, above all, almost 25% of those nearly 200 amendments are proposals of the type to be deleted. Secondly, one part of the technical amendments are “point point point point”. We have a large number of double amendments, so there are real fundamental amendments, and we're going to talk about them today, and I really want to answer every answer, and we're going to get a chance to do something else eventually, and it's not at all controversial about it, but it's certainly not a 200 number, or 198 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37196	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. What makes you think you have a replica, Mr. Nikolic? (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Me minister... You will get the word, but you cannot be a replica, Mr Stojmirović must, so you will. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: I won't then.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37197	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll make sure I'm very brief. I agree that all the laws, everything we do in the congregation, must be in accordance with the spelling we have. This remark concerns Mr. Minister and all other colleagues. In our spelling, there is no "point" but "jointed", so if we want to be in the spirit of spelling, I ask you to act like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37198	Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Nikolic? (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. ) The replica no, you didn't mention in any way or DS to have the right to a replica, and now that you think someone misread you, that's broad. On 300 amendments, we can't apply it that way. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37199	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and fellow Members, we have had the opportunity on several occasions to discuss really in a highly constructive way and on the Committee when it comes to amendments. We kind of essentially divided them into those related to technical corrections and those that really change a certain essence. If the opposition claims the essence of this law is the source of corruption, then we can talk about it from the point of view of every law, but then do not change the amendments through technical corrections and the system "wipes" changes the full law. Then really get into the essence and don't talk about these amendments and don't give amendment number one that we need to delete and change the names of the amendments at all. If we agree that foreign direct investment is needed by Serbia and that so far there has been no law, and now we have for the first time a law that regulates a system of investments in Serbia in general, equalises the status of both domestic and foreign investors, then support it in the work. Do not go through the form of technical corrections to change and to create the essence and to draw certain conclusions that do not stand when it comes to this law. For the first time, we have a law like this in practice. Those who had the chance to pass those laws didn't bring them. So now for the first time as a bill of this kind, we have a full name. This name is extremely correct and recognizable, not only for domestic but also for foreign practice. Therefore, he should remain that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37200	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37201	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Mrs Tomic said the opposition claims this law is such that it opens up the possibility of corruption. We talked about it in principle, but not only the opposition and the Democratic Party claimed it, but also warned the Agency, so independent bodies in the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Agency. We have heard that nearly 50 members of this law, proposed in the original text, have opened up the possibility according to the Agency's views on the fight against corruption for corruption. That's what Transparency claims, so we've seen that some amendments to independent bodies, such as the Commissioner for Public Information and the Nautilus, have been accepted. So, there are a lot of objections to this law and it wasn't just the position of the Democratic Party and the opposition. It is good that on the Committee on Economy we have accepted some amendments that essentially change things, some, we are not all, but it is not a good way to accept it, because it has been accepted through the form of non-direct acceptance of the opposition amendment, but through the adoption of amendments to the Economic Cocuss and MPs in this Republic Assembly and the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Administrative Committee. I think it was more correct and productive to accept the essential amendments proposed by representatives not only of the Democratic Party, but also of the other members of the opposition, and you have the opportunity to do so at today's meeting. I hope you accept all the essential amendments that deserve that kind of support.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37202	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mr. Minister, here, let me, as deputy president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, say you don't have to worry, you will have full support in the adoption of this law and in rebirth of the economic system of the Republic of Serbia. I answered the word for one reason. With all due respect to the Anti-Corruption Agency, with all due respect to the state authorities, which some call falsely independent regulatory bodies, I would like to say that this argument, often heard not only by representatives of the Democratic Party, but by various experts, quasi-eurs, so-called representatives of civil society, etc., is not a key argument why this law should not be supported. I may be resented for what I'm about to say, but I'm under the impression that the institutions of the citizen protection, the Public Information Commissioner, the Anti-Corruption Agency, have the status of political sacral entities in this society and what they're saying, is the minority Holy Scriptures. He said Rodoljub Sabic, the whole world must stop because of what Rodoljub Sabic said, which, by the way, becomes independent from several years ago, and I remember him as a prominent official of a political party. He sat there in King Milan as vice president of the National Assembly. Okay, well, in the meantime, the man's become independent, and it's good for him. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency, my colleague will help me, I do not have a paper form of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but here, Mr. Minister, which is the responsibility of the Agency – oversees the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, I read from the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, forgive me for doing so on my mobile phone, initiates the procedure and sets out measures for breach of this law, resolves the conflict of interest, conducts affairs in accordance with the law governing the financing of political parties, gives opinions and instructions for the implementation of this law, therefore, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, runs the register of officials, manages the register of property and income of officials, etc. Now I ask the Anti-Corruption Agency, let me ask myself, in what law does it say that the Anti-Corruption Agency is competent in advance to scare Serbian citizens of the laws coming from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how are they allegedly corrupt and how do they contain provisions that can in practice lead to certain crimes, corruption, bribery, etc.? Furthermore, these days, it may not have anything to do with this law directly, but it has to do with the addition of one role to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which it does not have under the positive regulations in the Republic of Serbia. So, these days, a hack is being led against Belgrade mayors, to have some apartments on the Bulgarian coast. As the prime minister of the government said, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, if that is true, a man can no longer be mayor of Belgrade, but if not true, then he should answer for the lies of those who lied there. We heard that the Anti-Corruption Agency said it would immediately initiate the procedure to determine whether it was true that Sinisha Mali has apartments on the Bulgarian coast. I don't mind, but gentlemen, I was on the show with Mrs Olivera Kovacevic six months ago, and then I showed papers that clearly show that Bojan Pajtic is today, as he was six months ago, only you are laughing, President of the DS, President of the District Government, Chairman of the Capital Investment Fund Management Board, where corruption and crime lie and the chairman of the Vojvodina Development Fund Supervisory Board. So, the man performs four functions simultaneously and nothing has started in these six months. Now I ask – how is it possible for the Anti-Corruption Agency to have one archinae when it comes to Sinisa Mali or at the time when it was Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, who was mentioned in the show...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37204	Mr. Martinovic, I understand that you speak in the same way of the amendment, as your predecessor of the opposition spoke, but I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37205	The ones in the former regime are a little nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37206	I understand that you are now mentioning the Agency as mentioned by some other MPs from the opposition, but I am asking you to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37207	It's okay, Mr. Vice President, just to tell them they're not the opposition. They're the government. And Mrs. Comic is the government and Mrs. Jerkov is the government and Mr. Bozovic is the government and Ćirić is the government and Dejan Nikolic is the authority, because their party president is also the Prime Minister of Vojvodina since 2004. They are not the opposition, they have been ruling on one-third of the territory of the Republic of Serbia since 2000. For the past 15 years, the AP Vojvodina has been systematically robbed and destroyed in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37208	I ask you, Mr. Martinovic, to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37209	As for the amendment... Look how nervous they are. As soon as a man tells them something that's true, they get nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37210	Please allow Mr. Martinovic to complete the presentation. Mr. Zivkovic, please don't throw away. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Don't throw me. Please don't throw away. This is a tall home of the National Assembly, a large hall of the National Assembly, not a pub. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Not even the bus. ) Please, Mr. Zivkovic, behave politely in the National Assembly. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I ask you to be polite. I am competent, as the chairman of the People’s Messengers, that they have no right to profit from the place and to interfere with the Messenger of the people. I have to allow the MP to speak, but if you think this is a bar, it's your manners, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, this is the bus. I'd love to, Mr. Zivkovic. I worked on a bus 30 years ago. It's a very nice memory. I don't mind you reminding me of the events 37 years ago. Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37211	I haven't finished yet, Mr. Pavicevic, but I don't mind you standing. So, Mr. Becic, thank you, but you don't have to defend me from Mr. Zivkovic. A greater courage a man must have to be at a concert that organizes the Red Berets, rather than throws one of the people's MPs, so you're free to let him throw it away. Mr. Sertic, let me tell you one more time, you have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group. The investment law is good. What I can say is that I have personally convinced myself, you as Minister of Economy know very well, that you have always been available to local self-government when it comes to the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the realisation of infrastructure, investment and other projects that are important to all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. You're always at your disposal. Always answer the phone politely. I have to say it in public. You will have our full support to pass this law, and you do not have to be intimidated at all by these brave heroes from the former regime and the current government in Vojvodina. The only thing they have left is to lie, it's to insult, it's to earn, to tell the truth, and to call for something that doesn't say in the law. So I respect Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Šabić and Mrs Tatjana Babić and all their honours, but each of them does his job. They're not any independent regulatory bodies, they're government bodies. Each state body is limited by the powers conferred upon it by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37212	Mr. Martinovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37213	There is a Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and when the Anti-Corruption Agency Act states that it is a state body which is, among other things, competent to intimidate citizens with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a baukomi, which is allegedly going to bring corruption into our economy, I will respect what the gentlemen of the government of Vojvodina say, but until then I have the right to defend the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and to give my opinion and opinion of the SNS on this law and on all other laws that are in connection with the Investment Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37214	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that he was just injured, first of all, by Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, then Article 106, and let me explain how a breach of the Rules of Procedure was done. Mr. Martinovic, who is otherwise a doctor of legal science, said in his speech of 10 minutes a series, Mr. Bečić, offensive terms at the expense of the actions of people who perform on behalf of independent state bodies, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency and such as the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter. Mr. Bečiću, Mr. Martinovic has offended the actions of people who have only done their job, and their job is to show us MPs, but also ministers and guests from the ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37216	Mr. Pavicevic, you cannot use this as a replica, you must point to a member who is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37217	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37218	I expected you to point to the behavior of some MPs who threw them out of the bench and acted like they were in a bar...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37219	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37220	... And they weren't talking about their vineyards, they were talking about buses. I thought you'd point to that, Mr. Pavicevic, and you point to something else and use it as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37221	Article 106, too, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37222	I ask you, Mr. Pavicevic, to complete the apparition so I can answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37223	This was Article 107, as you violated the Rules of Procedure in the event of an inadequate response. You reacted in one piece, inadequately, to Mr. Martinovic's performance. Article 106. I agree that we should speak critically about Mayor Belgrade, but when the agenda comes to an end, not today... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37224	Mr. Pavicevic, it is my duty to answer you. I gave most of the answer. Perhaps it was a mistake for me to allow the opposition to start talking about topics that did not, from the District Government, mention the Corruption Agency, but the topic was open and it had to be over. On what basis, Mr. Nikolic? (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. Pajtic, president of the DS. You're an authorised representative, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37225	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is difficult in the EU with such a radical spirit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37226	Mr. Nikolic, please, you have the right to a replica, you have received a replica of Mr. Martinovic's exposure, but please do not insult the MPs and do not insult the parties, because it is not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37227	Absolutely. I don't think it's an insult. The Radical Party is an official party in our political system. I'm not sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37228	It's not about mentioning the extra-parliamentary parties, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37229	I agree with that, Mr. Chairman. You see, Minister, why we need stronger regulations, better laws. Because now the competent authorities have to examine the business of Belgrade Mayor, who is the director of the offshore company, who advises investors to invest in Bulgaria. Do you understand? Not to invest here, but to invest their money in Bulgaria. That's why this law is bad, because it's still going to happen, and especially with SNS officials. There's a lot of CEOs from Seattle and other offshore companies. This has become some kind of forgeries. However, Mr. Martinovic would have talked about the amendment and the law if it were not a representative of the government, whose top range is in investment, the construction sites for traffic lights or a bike store or a pedestrian crossing. Red ribbons for SNS' top investment, 20,000 hours of work you're in power. You didn't do anything. Everything goes over your back, not you, but the citizens of Serbia. That's why you wanted to call the election, to use propaganda to mask what you're doing and what you're doing? Start the second oven, turn off the first, promote the Mercedes buses... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37230	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has been made by the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is by Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37231	Mr. Dejan Nikolic said he appeared because of the mention of Bojan Pajtic, the party's president, but Mr. Nikolic should also be told because of mentioning Bojan Pajtic's name as president, not only of the DS, but of the president of the District Government, the chairman of the Capital Investments Fund's Management Board and the chairman of the Vojvodina Development Fund's Supervisory Board. So these are all his functions. He doesn't only have one function, he has four functions. You say - 20,000 hours of work. You've got millions of hours of work and thanks to those hours, and instead of working, you've been robbing. You mention some traffic lights, you mean traffic lights in New Sad. Now I ask you, Mr. Nikolic, if one child cried over that traffic light in Novi Sad, and how many children, children distracted by development, were left without adequate accommodation because Bojan Pajtic, Momcilo Milovic, Dusan Elezovic, stole the money. I tell you this openly – stolen money from the Capital Investment Fund, money that was intended for New Vienna, for the so-called so-called so-called capital investment fund. The Hetherland Castle, where children were to be housed distracted in development. Go, gentlemen, to New Vienna, see what the facility reportedly invested millions of euros looks like. It looks the same as it did 10 years ago. You have not invested a single dinar and you have the courage to talk about some of the offshore companies. Ask Mr. Bojan Pajtic how many apartments in Novi Sad have Dusan Elezovic, who was a waiter before he started dealing with politics, and here you blame Igor Becic for allegedly driving the bus. Mr. Becic, do you have 34 apartments in Novi Sad? You don't. Where did you get so many apartments and no offshore companies, and without Bulgaria and without me, I don't know what? You have, you've got your hand in the pocket of the Capital Investment Fund... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37232	Mr. Martinovic, I am proud of the work I did 30 years ago, but I would not say that some are proud of what they were doing at some time. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balša Bozovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, a 107th member has been injured and the dignity of this home has been threatened, for the simple reason that the topic that is on the agenda is being bypassed, the amendments are being bypassed and here is the talk of Bojan Pajtic, Dusan Elezovic and many other DS officials. In doing so, allow me only in one sentence to explain that the Prime Minister of Vojvodina is in office in all the bodies mentioned by Mr Martinovic, not the functions are paid, and the Prime Minister does not receive salary as Prime Minister of Vojvodina, but only as a professor of the University of Novi Sad. On the other hand, when it comes to Mr. Elezovic, if Martinovic has any knowledge, I urge him not to break the law, but to report it to the police. He is the one, Mr. Martinovic, who has had five salaries up to almost and at the expense of citizens and taxpayers living very well in the last three years, not DS officials...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37234	Mr Bozovicu, since you abuse the Rules of Procedure that you have called for and used this as a replica, I will take your word and take two minutes away from the parliamentary group. Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37235	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Sertic, a member of one of the most inefficient governments in the world, you proved it best and showed it during the debate the other day about the law in principle. It's obvious that you don't understand the economy at all, and that's why our economic situation is like that. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Turnover Movement... Something funny, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37236	Please, Mr. Veselinović, the children are at the gallery, the children are following us, please be polite as a MP and set a good example.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37237	That's exactly why. At the time, Mahatma Gandhi said: “First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they will beat you, and then you will defeat them. “ That's how it's gonna happen with the Serbian Progressive Party. They are not interested in the debate on investment and foreign investment. The amendment, therefore, was very clear: "The Turnover Movement". We believe that the definition of the objectives of this law is unclear, where it is said to be an improvement of the investment environment in the Republic of Serbia. My opinion is that something can't be in and it's in the environment. We can discuss that. Our proposal was to write a simple improvement in investments in Serbia. Your explanation for what you've given is unknowing and we're not happy with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37238	I'd just like to ask the MPs to welcome the children to the school of Vranjska Banja, that's our future. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37239	Your Honor, you've been dealing with politics and general affairs for two minutes and 45 seconds, whether we're doing our job or not, and you're criticizing the law, and then in the last 15 seconds, you're looking for a grammatical correction of one word. So much for your knowledge of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37240	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37241	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37242	You gave up. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37243	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can generally accept an objection relating to the amendment made by the amendment's promoter, but there's something else I can't accept. There is always talk of some of the most inefficient government in Serbia's history or beyond Europe. I tried to analyze it myself, without anyone's help, and I came to the next conclusion. The most likely author of these words compares the efficiency of the government in Serbia. Its basic parameter is the efficiency of a government whose one, not directly members of the government, but of the majority that supported the government as well. It is measured by the efficiency in which you give the maximum in certain areas. As part of my research, I came to the conclusion that he found that the government, which he has such a high opinion, was extremely effective in corruption in the previous period, extremely effective in the area of crime, destroying the Serbian economy, destroying Serbia's economy, in borrowing Serbian citizens with single interest loans. And now, when he compares the government's results to the results of today's government, which is fighting corruption, which is fighting crime, which is trying to save the economy that was destroyed earlier, to save the economy, which is looking for and finding loans with minimal interest, so he can be right when he says that this government has achieved a minimum, because it works in the interests of Serbian citizens, not in the interest of its own. On the other hand, I’m not surprised that “The Turnover Movement ” came, for something seemed to have turned in their direction, but in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37244	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. Mr. Veselinović, are you using your time? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the government has proposed Article 2 where it says the objectives of this law are under 1) to improve the investment environment in the Republic of Serbia. We think it's a more appropriate business environment than the environment, because the environment is not suitable for this vocabulary and this law. Point 5) says – creating a more attractive business environment for domestic and foreign investors in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We have suggested that it be - an improvement of the business environment in order to attract domestic and foreign investments. We think it's more appropriate, more meaningful, and more clearly explain the essence of this law, so I ask you to think about it even further and accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37246	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37247	And also, this is just about the normative style, and it's not about the essence itself, so we're staying on our lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37248	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Basarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37249	Thank you. Therefore, Article 2(3) deletes, which reads - equalising the treatment of domestic and foreign investors, in accordance with the law. That's what we said and in the debate in principle. Therefore, it is deleted for the reason that the equalisation of the treatment of domestic and foreign investors as the objective of this law is meaningless, since this possibility has existed so far and this has been foreseen by positive legislation. That's why we're always against it when you're trying to represent the things that existed as some new value at a time when you're in power. We've had a few situations. For example, the Post Office in New Belgrade. Here, Mr. Ciric is sitting in front of me, he's the one who finished his mail in New Belgrade, and you, Mr. Sertic, are opening it. Or, for example, “Techno Park. ” Former Minister Djelic has created "Techno Park" and provided funding for "Techno Park", he remains empty up in Starari, but Belgrade Mayor Sinisa Mali is very pompously opening it. Also, Makish 2, Europe's most modern water factory. Mr. Cvijo Babiæ from the time of DS is finished, but you're opening it. Every time it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37250	Mr Bozovicu, a series of replicas that were just before, will not allow him to step away from the agenda anymore, I only ask you when and what obligations he has to have with the agenda and with the amendment submitted to Article 2 by Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic. I have an amendment ahead of me. I can't find what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37251	I'll explain it, because it represents something as new, and it's actually old. This existed, and Mr. Sertic told us this is a new value in the law. It's just that, because these were examples a little while ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37252	You laughed at what you said yourself, so I don't have any more comments. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37253	Thank you, Your Honor. They say there was equality between domestic and foreign investors. I don't think there was any equality between 2000 and 2012 and we saw that. Not only did you not advocate attracting foreign investment, but you tried in every way possible to destroy what domestic public enterprises we had and what we inherited from some previous time. You say Božidar Djelic – techno park. Please don't mention Bozidar Djelic, so we all know who Mr. Bozidar Djelic was. Is that the one, Mr. Becic, remind me I may have been quite young at the time, or should I say a child...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37254	Yeah, who slept on my aunt's bed, but I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37255	No, I didn't want to mention the bed. I don't know what happened on the bed or what was in Djelic's bed, but I remember he came as a big pay expert of 200 euros, and he thought so much about domestic investors, and also about foreign investors, that the country's chairman came out of this country with 10m euros, I apologize 11m euros. I'm going back on the subject, because I think these laws certainly bring about a new practice in our country. A practice in which we will really have fully even conditions, equal conditions for all investors both domestic and foreign, so it will never happen to us again, Mr. Chairman, and it is about this law, to mention Mr. Cvijo Babic, who was the director of the water pipeline in Belgrade and who allegedly built a large water-water facility. You know how? By changing the government, because they were recalibrating foreign companies, so they wanted to shut down the project. Thanks to the responsible policy that began to be implemented in the capital, the project was completed and we got Makish 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37256	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37257	All this is important, Mr. Chairman, for the simple reason that people need to know that things change in Serbia. This is a clear message for investors, both domestic and foreign, that no one will ever recalibrate them, that they are welcome in our country, that there are legal regulations that define the criteria that who will receive funds from the state, not that we have the practice that we saw from 2006 to 2013, that when you divide several hundred million to some companies, there must be good and healthy and fair companies, but when Mr Sertic asks who you gave them all their money and nobody knows. No one knows how much money is given to which company. We don't have a clue. We don't have a single regular exele table anywhere to answer that question. Imagine how serious we were when we gave money to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the money from our country's budget as incentives, and then you came and you asked for an exele table to see who you gave what you gave, not because we want to immediately charge the apriors, but to see what we gave them if they did anything. Did they hire workers? Do they pay their wages? Do they pay their contributions? Do they pay taxes to this country? We could have gotten to that data very hard, almost by no means. We now have a minister of business who, as I said two days ago, here in this assembly, has spent more time alone in this law explaining it than Mirko Cvetkovic spent in four years defending his government. Just a second, and I'm done with this. That is why I would support what my colleague Martinovic said – do not fear citizens more if they are waiting for something they saw in your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37258	Mr. Jovicic, I understand that these are all your arguments why this member should not be deleted, but I ask you to bring an end to your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37259	Can I go on? Now I've forgotten, and I have to start all over again. I'm kidding. I would just like to say one thing, don't be afraid of the citizens because we finally have a confession and here I am bound to the law, not only by the professional public in our country, but not by the professional public sitting on the myths of a party who is also the former and current regime in a particular part of our country, don't be afraid this is a law that will bring prosperity to our economy. Finally, I am pleased with one thing, Mr. Chairman, which by 2012, from the age of 17 at all possible events, I have listened to a representative of the former and present, in a certain part of our territory, foreign investment regime, foreign investment. They are important to us and I can confirm that, but for the first time in our law we have treatment and regulation for domestic investors. We in our country have smart, professional, educated people who know how to make capital, and the state has to give them the opportunity to spread it and employ our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37260	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37261	Thank you. It is not about eradicating the member but about eradicating the 3rd point, as counterpart Balša Bozovic said, is about equalising the treatment of domestic and foreign investors in accordance with the law, because such a regulation is already in force. If a member were to be deleted, that would be what it says. Public argumentation, I think, is improbable, since in this same law, on the proposal of the Proposer, contracts should not be announced at all, rather than asking for any sign of money, by anyone. The problem with this law is that the professional public is with us who we think any government wants to hide the data, it's not about whether I'm the opposition or I'm the ruling majority, it's the nature of the executive government, unfortunately, that it tends to when it comes to budget money to cover it up for not knowing much. The whole story of this law was crucial, except for the personal data and the publication of the contract to anyone who meets investors. I totally understand the folklore that wants to get out of the mind of what we're talking about here, about the Law on Investments and what's the problem with this law, but it's not going to erase the fact that the motionor of this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, intended to keep all kinds of contracts, agreements with any investors secret. It's simply said, just as simple as it is true. Unfortunately, we now have a situation where it's clear where this idea is coming from, and that's when you ask for information, when the state authority gives you information about the contract, the agreement, the data, then the same government comes forward and says that the information is not true and that the counterfeit is in a very large number. There is no problem with anyone's opposition, even less is the problem of people who, based on their authority, do their jobs as independent bodies or as a media public, here is the problem the government has forgotten when it lied. It's a common problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37262	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37263	I am really sorry that we have one part of Parliament that has continued with its idea practice that has been giving away domestic businesses and has been doing this for almost 15 years. In 2003, the Foreign Investment Act was passed. So you had a very clear and precise desire to support exclusively foreign investment in our country. I absolutely agree that they're important. I absolutely agree that they are the key to our development. But what about the domestic economy? What about all the businessmen who work in our country, who are over three hundred thousand at the moment? And all, both foreign companies and all those who came to us and opened jobs, opened the company here in Serbia, paid taxes and contributions are also domestic legal persons and by law, and that's how we treat them. You are now looking again for an amendment to rule out the right and purpose of the law to equalise foreign and domestic investors, so that is one of the key things that we wanted to do and help our domestic businesses to have equal rights in any case and in any possible legal solutions, and that is the key message of this government. We have also done this through a strategy for developing small and medium-sized enterprises that are fully characterized by the EU's Small Business Act, we have done so with the best practical examples from around the world. Neither I as a minister nor the Serbian government will ever support any act, member or amendment that will erase the role of domestic economy in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37264	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37265	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. This Article 2rd point 3 is the essence of this law. If that were deleted, we would have to delete the entire law, and for us adversaries would be enough just to have a name – a proposal for a law on investment, without all these points and it would go right. You weren't even able to process it before we did. So the essence of this law is that all are equal in front of the investment law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37266	Thank you. The word is by Dr Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37267	The Honorable Chairman, dear ministers, colleagues, MPs, you didn't give me a word for the replica last time, but I'll forgive you for that. What should now be asked as a big question, Mr. Chairman, is why the signatories of the Fiat contract did not publish the contract until the end of the moment they signed it. Because in those foreign investors contracts, you always have the part where investors ask for one part of the activity to remain in the domain of business secrets. If you announce this, the state pays a large penalty and a great deal of compensation. The idea, even when we're talking about the relationship between investors and the state, at this point we're getting a legal framework. We've never had that before. You claim there is no law like this. So, the lack of such a law remains within the scope of work, as until 2012 to negotiate business with investors in four eyes, behind the public door, behind the back of all Serbian citizens. Now it's gone. The other part of the story, when you talk about corruption. First, the Anti-Corruption Agency also gave its opinion on the risk of the existence of activities related to possible corruption. That one. Secondly, when we talk about the part of the message being sent to investors about corruption, it means that you condemn investors in advance to participate in some corrupt actions. That simply scares investors, not only scares citizens of Serbia, by not having new jobs, but also investors that simply Serbia is not a country to invest in. Therefore, what you are doing is not good for the citizens of Serbia, nor for the economy, and especially for the amendment you are seeking in attitude 3 to equalise the treatment of domestic and foreign investors in accordance with the law, to delete. This means that you still remain at your political point of view that only certain individuals from abroad should be forced, only in a way without the law, only with the policy of subsidies that prevailed, who likes and who is a member of the DS. The second thing, if someone has shown a system of transparency and democracy in terms of the law, then it is indeed Minister Sertic, who has adopted even an amendment, which is on the proposal of MPs who make up the Economic Cox, but your MPs are, therefore, a group of MPs of the Economic Cocus who gave them the right to AP and local self-government on whose territory there is simply a certain investment, it can also be a signer of a contract between the state and investors, thus showing that at the moment, Mr Pajtic can sign such contracts. When we're talking about the corruption you're constantly potentialing for, because it's an interesting election topic, so you think you're going to raise a rating that's weak anyway, then corruption can't be if you have an investment program, a project team, a local self-government, a development agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37268	Please, Mrs. Tomic, you are an authorised representative, but you must return to the subject, to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37269	I'm talking about the amendment, the amendment refers to asking to be deleted -- equalising the status of domestic and foreign investors, Mr. Becic. So I'm talking about why this amendment was not accepted and for a reason it was not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37270	Mr. Janko Veselinović I understand all that, Mr. Kiric, but you need to understand that the Rules of Procedure have an advantage, you know very well as the MP. [[Goran Ćirić, from the place: The party is mentioned, looking for a replica.]] Mr. Kiriq, you don't seem to understand again. You're right, you have the right to a replica, it's mentioned DS, but the Rules of Procedure has the advantage and Mr. Veselinović has the advantage, I'm trying to explain it to you. Here you are, Mr. Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37271	Dear Chairman, I am advocating Article 27, and in order to continue at all, to continue to work, it is up to you or a representative of the promoter to explain which amendments of the Economic Cocus accepted and what is the Economic Cocus. The previous speaker, Mrs Tomic, said the minister had accepted amendments to the Economic Cocus. He's in the debate... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37272	I will not allow you, Mr. Veselinovic, to use this as a replica and to interpret the speeches of some MPs. If you don't understand what a movement is, if you don't understand what a twist is, if you don't understand what an economic cocus is, you have to inform yourself somewhere else, Mr. Veseinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is a cocus? ) It's not exactly the same, I can't say it's the same, it's very different from the Turnover Movement. Mr. Veselinović, I'm not here to educate you, you have to go somewhere else. Please, the word has been made by MP Goran Ciric, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37273	Thank you, but the way we started working today, it's not something that promises to work successfully and successfully, and especially successfully implement this law, because in this way and the violence you treat opposition MPs, you simply show that willingness to accept any other opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37274	Mr. Kiric, I beg you, you have not received a replica of the speaker's presentation, you have received a replica of the presentation of the MP who spoke, Mrs. Tomic. I ask you, and I pray all the MPs of the people, the chairman may only be on the basis of what the MPs do, in which way the MPs exhibit and how the MPs behave in the National Assembly, the chairman of which can lead the session. I beg you, if anyone abuses the Rules of Procedure, don't expect me to allow it. If someone is answering the Rules of Procedure and does not indicate how the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure, but points to the words spoken by one of the speakers, I have to interrupt that speaker and that points to the Rules of Procedure. If you don't know the Rules of Procedure, I'd ask you to try a little bit of what you're using in the National Assembly, what you're calling for, to restore that material. Thank you. Go ahead, I'll count the time you've spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37275	It is possible that I do not know the Rules of Procedure enough, but common sense shows how you treat MPs, and what kind of MPs to the opposition, so let me give a replica of what we heard from Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic on the charge that DS has forced only foreign investors, not thinking about how this current government treats domestic and foreign investors. We also have examples that many contracts and private arrangements here in this Assembly are represented as contracts of public interest, such as signing a contract on "Bood on Water", signing a contract with "Etihad". So, many of these contracts are exactly like that, in four eyes, completed, the hotel on Kopalnik, and you are constantly talking about this argument regarding this law, which is that this law balances the rights of domestic and foreign investors. I think we can agree that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees exactly that equality of investment and domestic and foreign investors. We've seen that in the next members, and we'll get to those members. You accepted some of the amendments that insisted exactly that, and I don't think that argument stands at all. So that's another piece of evidence, and I think we'll have a chance to explain it much more in the next amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37276	The word has the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Becic, I respect the legitimate right of the ambassadors of the Vojvodina government to defend their party and defend their leader, but let us also from the SNS defend the government's policy. As for equalising domestic and foreign investors, of course the SNS supports and welcomes it. I have to say, they're wrong, some of my colleagues who say that the DS people have time-consumed only foreign investors. They, Mr. Becic, weighed jobs and some domestic investors. But what's the problem? The domestic investor took the money, but he didn't finish the job. And here, if you'll let me, I'll show it to the citizens of Serbia that I don't turn out to be false. Here, it's that famous Hetherland castle in New Vienna. Look what it looks like. Here, look, Mr. Minister. So there's not half the roof, there's not a single window, there's no house or castle, as they call it, it looks like the Mongols fell into it in the 13th century and took away everything that was alive in that castle. Here's a picture of where children were supposed to be distracted in development. Here, Mr. Minister, that's what people tell you who say they're fair to themselves, that they're for transparency, for equalising domestic and foreign investors. Tell me, which child can be placed in one of these objects? Who was the contractor? A domestic company, Mr. Minister. Here, look, they were even so much, let's say, politically, let's not use some hard word, but not smart enough, so they put a board that says who the contractor is. The company "Gardi" d.o.o. from Novi Sad. Now, Mr. Minister, if I were you, for example, I would now ask the gentlemen of the government in Vojvodina if they could show us the contracts, because they keep talking about some contracts, and, show us the contract for JAT, and show us the contract for "Belgrade on Water". Here's a much smaller job, and ultimately a human job to accommodate children distracted by development. If I were you, I'd be here now, for example. asked Mr. Bojan Pitiæ and his lawyers here, whom he doesn't have much, they fled to show us the contract that was concluded... (Gordana Comić, from the place: This can't. Mrs. Comić, don't get too upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37278	I ask you, Mr. Martinovic, not to address another MP, and return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37279	I'm only giving well-intentioned advice. So, to show us the contract concluded between the Capital Investment Fund and the Gardi company d.o.o. from Novi Sad, owned and responsible by Igor Reba. That Igor Reba and his "Gardy" were supposed to resuscitate this house in New Vienna where children were to be housed distracted in development. According to the information I have, and I would like the DS, and I believe you, Mr. Minister, to show me the contract, whether it is for the company "Gardi" d.o.o. from Novi Sad, and the board of the company's name I showed you, so the painting doesn't lie, obtained anti-legal property benefit of 61 million 722 thousand dinars... (Balsa Bozovic, from town: It is Vučić's godfather. And Igor Rebi, 12 million 877 thousand dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37280	Please, Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37281	And the municipality of Novi Vienna, where this house was supposed to house children distracted in development, was caused by a material damage of 112 million dinars. The facility was due to be completed in 2013. Show the gentlemen of the DS contract concluded between the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and the company, the domestic enterprise, so that's where I take off my hat, my domestic company, it's just a problem which has a little bit more to do with the pocket of the people of Vojvodina. So show the contract between the Fund and this company d.o.o. "The Guards" from Novi Sad, so let's see who's responsible, why aren't the children placed in this building without a roof, without a window, which is about to collapse and where the money from the Capital Investment Fund went and where the money went from the budget of the municipality of Novi Becej. I will ask you for a few more contracts that were concluded under the auspices of Bojan Pajtic, "the dukes of a polygraph", and then we will see what the DS was hiding and how real estate was purchased in Novi Sad, how contracts were purchased in Erdewik, how they were fictitiously registered to other people's names, for example, wineries, etc. How the rural, local, republican sources from the Capital Investment Fund, the Vojvodina Development Fund, were financed, and “half drinks, half of Sarcu gives”, little DS, little to me, little to the godfather, and a little to buy a jeep, and a little to buy a place, and a little to buy a winery, so a little to buy a vineyard, etc. So, you're asking freely for all contracts from the government, but here I am asking you now, when you will show contracts where the signator was, for example, Bojan Pajtic, Momcilo Milović, Nebojsa Malenkovic, I don't remember all of them, and I don't remember who was in it, as the Croat brothers would say, to the "criminal association".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37282	Please, Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37283	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you have violated the 106th and 107th Presidencies of the Assembly, which one and the other speak of the obligations of the MPs to the agenda, as well as the obligations of conduct. The MP infatuation with the desire to make up for the MPs of the DS to cover all negligence and all violence over the rule of law, the government of the Republic of Serbia believes it is allowed to insult the MPs and to call us lawyers or "criminal associations". It may be freedom of speech, but if it is freedom of speech, the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are limited. I think you tried to bring the MP to memory of the obligations he has under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but that didn't work. If it had worked, I wouldn't have taken the time to explain to all of us how it hurt the Rules of Procedure. Any other attempt to go past the rules of the Rules of Procedure, personally and ad person here, is an insult to consider it freedom of speech, should be restricted by your jurisdiction, and if it is not, then it will be our interventions, because it is a common benefit. What are we saying to each other here? He's always talking about the one who says everything he thinks is a strong word that will hide the truth, that will hide the facts and that is the place in the political arena. It's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37284	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'll always try to prevent people's MPs from being insulted, but when they're told to the lawyers, I can't at the same time interpret the exposure they thought of. Also, the moment I translated a word that was spoken or a sentence, I reacted. Thank you. The word has a People's MP... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: If I may, by amendment, just a few words. ) Yes, you can, Mr. Martinovic, but before that, the word has a National MP, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised by the amendment's proposal, a team of MPs who suggested it belongs to a party, which, for example, abolished domestic banks. She put foreign banks in their place, so foreign banks can make profits, and then here we're offered to bargain with foreign banks about the amount of credit and the amount of certain currencies and the height of certain wars. First they bury us with something, then they ask us to treat the consequences of the cause, and the cause was their irresponsible behavior, where domestic banks were eliminated entirely in favour of foreign banks. Then the group of former regime parties, which had long ruled, proposed to sign the SAA and signed the SAA, in which excessive liberalisation was cleaned up by many small agricultural holdings, many small domestic investments, because so quickly in the liberalisation of agricultural food products, no member who entered the EU has ever signed it without entering the fact then when entering the EU. So this excessive liberalisation took jobs and bread hundreds of thousands of peasants and hundreds of thousands of people working in the processing industry. They're simply lustrated from fields and factories, and now someone wants to say that we favour foreign investment compared to domestic investment. How did they treat foreign investors? A sufficient example is ‘Energogreen’. The "Energogreen" California, which is citizens in India, is suing the state of Serbia for failing the former regimes' parties, due to foreign investment, under the name of 110m euros. Look wonders, in this foreign investor, half of the capital or half of the members were prominent members of DS - Misic, Drecun, etc., where they promised that the factory would work at full capacity and that there would be enough animal waste for another such factory. They wrote it well and signed it. Today, a Belgian firm, which listed those members as prominent DS, sues the state of Serbia for 100m euros, which means that they will charge 50m euros through 50% of their ownership if the state loses the dispute, and they have signed through their officials and through their ministers and directors that the factory will work at the capacity of 150,000 tonnes and has enough matter to keep the factory running smoothly. With that gone, we are now sued by a Belgian investor who, behold, 50% hold members of DS capital and expect it, if God forbid, to win a dispute, that the state of Serbia will fund those prominent DS members with 50% of the dispute if not, God forbid we lose. Look at the wonders, this factory was in Indjia, a miracle, it didn't meet any technical conditions, it was first built, and then it bought a plot, it started building with the participation of two ministers, 27, it seems to me, September, and they bought the plot from the Indji Municipality's Building Directorate only in December, which clearly shows that the factory was even built without a building permit. When it comes to their pockets, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37286	Mr. Risticevic, I understand that these are all your arguments that do not need to be deleted from point 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37287	Of course you don't need to delete because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37288	In Section 2, point 3, but please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37289	Well, she's talking about foreign and domestic investments and I want to say that they accuse us and that we're trying to favour foreign investments, I'm describing how they did it, and how they shouldn't do it, and why they shouldn't accept the amendment, because those who had philosophy are better introduced than produced, liquidate domestic banks, introduce sides that are going to interest the population, and then object to us. As far as we're concerned, this country has been distracted by development because the former regime's party had politicians with special needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37290	Please, Mr. Risticevic, don't mention painful topics in such a way, the painful theme that some children distracted in development have lost their place and are now mentioned in this way. That is not the way to talk about it. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: The state I said. ) Mr. Nikolic, you have the right to reply because of what the prominent DS members have done, what is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37291	Scandalous is the way you've now given the replica, but about it some other time. To some MPs, it is pointless to answer as much as it makes no sense to all that they have said. But a few things about the Capital Investment Fund. Yes, the Fund sued the performer, the one the colleague was talking about. We haven't had a conviction in four years. For four years, some cases have been used for congregation work. It just means...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37292	Please, Mr. Nikolic, you have received a replica of Mr. Risticevic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37293	Among other things, I also got a line on Mr. Martinovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37294	Mr. Martinovic didn't mention DS. You have been given the right to replication for mentioning what the prominent DS members were doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37295	He mentioned the party president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37296	Here you go. You have a replica to mention the president of the DS and the president of the District Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37297	For four years, some cases have been used as constituencies, and when in four years you have no conviction, then either they lie or they are incompetent. I'd say both. Why do they have to talk about it? If they don't talk about it, they'll have to tell them who's responsible for the helicopter crash, not so successfully escapeing responsibility for breaking their backs by cutting wages and pensions, and now telling them to raise their heads and see how high the tower in "Belgrade on Water" is. Maybe by marketing you can try to forget about wages and pensions and turning public goods into the private interest of Beograd on Water, but here, I won't forget it and believe you, we're all more. You'll be surprised at the first next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37298	Thank you. The word has been issued by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, my colleague Nikolic obviously doesn't make things clear, so here, let me make them clear, if I may, about his party boss's business. This famous firm "Gardi" D.O.O. from Novi Sad, which was supposed to resuscitate an object for children distracted by your development, Mr. Nikolic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37300	Please don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37301	I'm just letting him know. I can let you know, Mr. Becic. “Gardi” D.O.O., company for design, engineering, urban design and design, Temerina 102, number of employees, Mr Sertic, number of employees one, one, one. Now we wonder why Hetherland Castle is not finished in New Vienna. Well, who can finish it with one of the employees? But that's why the man took the money. What else did he do? Here, Mr. Nikolic, if you don't know, ask your party boss to show you the contract concluded between this company "Gardi" D.O.O.O. from Novi Sad and former Director of the Momčil Milovic Capital Investments Fund, where "Gardi" sold Momcilu Milovic's apartment of 78 square meters in Novi Sad, on the streets of Bulevar Liberation 82. The apartment was purchased on September 3rd 2007, Mr. Becic, at a price of 16.5 million dinars, and the deadline for payment of the purchase price was on 31 December 2007. According to bookkeeping, on July 31st 2013, 2013 was the year when the facility was due to be completed in Novi Bece, on the customer card, natural persons, the company "Gardi", on the line 2.02.1, committee 1.07.70 Milović Momcilo owes 2,175,000 dinars. What's weird? Mr. Nikol's gonna ask your party boss. With the payment of the sale price of Momcilo Milovic's apartment, it stops at the time when the engagement of the company's company "Gardi" begins on the business of carrying out works financed by the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina. What don't you understand here? How do people sue those who bought you apartments from the Capital Investment Fund? Who is there to lead the dispute against? A goat to keep the cabbage. Don't make fun of the citizens of Vojvodina. You don't live in Vojvodina. That's why I'm taking part of your responsibility. You probably don't even know about all these machinations, but believe me, I'll keep looking for contracts concluded by the Capital Investment Fund, and the board president is Bojan Pajtic, so you'll see...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37302	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37303	... If you'd put yourself in a position, as you would say to Latina, the lawyer diaboli, the devil's lawyer. You're defending something that even St. Peter can't defend.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37304	Thank you. I'm gonna have to take a break now to get back on the agenda. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. We move on to Article 2 of the amendment, submitted jointly by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37306	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the honourable ministers with fellow Members, the proposed amendment, is being set in this law as one of the objectives, and investment in underdeveloped areas, as well as balanced regional development. In order for underdeveloped municipalities and areas to develop and enable themselves to be self-sustainable, investment in their economy needs to be launched. There are 46 undeveloped municipalities in Serbia, and over a million Serbian citizens live in these municipalities, while earnings are employed by as many as 60% below the republican average. The development of undeveloped municipalities, such as Tutin and Sjenica, requires investments in agriculture, then in the wood and food industries, and for all of this is a prerequisite for training travel infrastructure which is in an extremely poor state in this part of the country. These branches of the economy are recognised as great potential, and it would certainly be inappropriate not to pay any attention to them when we talk about domestic and foreign investments. On the other hand, balanced regional development has been defined by Article 11 of this Act, as well as the Regional Development Act, and it is of particular importance to include the objectives of adopting this law, while reducing the number of unemployed, who in some municipalities, such as Tutin, exceeds 60%. We believe that adopting this amendment would help to define the objectives that the new law needs to meet and better address the problems that the state has in some of its undeveloped parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37307	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 3 is in the section of the law where definitions are placed. Some expressions used in this law, says Article 3, have the following meaning: under 1) "are things, rights and money, monetary stakes are expressed in money. The role of a foreign investor may be in foreign exchanges and effective foreign money purchased and sold on the foreign market; under 2) investment is, under (a)," here we have submitted an amendment, you say, Mr Minister, "the founding of a company or a branch of a company, in accordance with the law governing companies in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the rights to things and equipment, i.e. to carry out the business of a company and/or a branch of a company. “ We have suggested that this position reads: “the founding of a company or a branch of a company, in accordance with the law governing companies in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the acquisition of the right to things and equipment, i.e. to carry out the business of a company and/or a branch of a company, is an investment. ” We think that we better formulate this position in the law and that it is clearer, and we ask you to take another look and think and accept our amendment, because it is clearer than what you have suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37309	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37310	We have virtually changed that part by accepting the amendments to the Economic Cocussus of the Serbian Parliament. He was just different from you and the Economic Cocus, so he practically couldn't accept the common amendment, but what you said was fundamentally depicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37311	The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37312	I'll use the five minutes I've got on the Rules of Procedure. This is one of the key amendments I have tabled on behalf of the Turnover Movement, which concerns the role of foreign investor and form in which he may be. In point g) it is said that this role can be to acquire property, service, stock and other real rights in moving things and immovableities located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which the investor has acquired for the purpose of carrying out its work. Our amendment, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the Turnover, excludes agricultural land and there is, by all accounts, the fundamental difference between the amendments I submitted and the government's position. So the position of the Turnover Movement is that agricultural land is not sold to foreigners, that it cannot be sold to foreigners. By all accounts, Mr Sertic has the opposite attitude. True, we have here an explanation that is unacceptable to students of the first year of law school. Here it is said - the amendment is not accepted, a bill which, among other things, defines conditions for the acquisition of property rights and other rights of immovable property in accordance with the law. It is said here that this member essentially refers to immovable property, not agricultural land. Mr. Sertic, agricultural land is also an immovable property. So, usually when the definition and examples of the list are said – it is agricultural land, building land, buildings, everything that is in some way and physically immovable. You said here you didn't accept the amendment because the basic member refers to immovableity. You're still saying, for the sake of truth, that the position of agricultural land is governed by the Agricultural Land Act. Yes, Mr Sertic, but with the SAA which has become an integral part of Serbian legislation and which says that from next year, agricultural land will be able to be sold to foreigners. With this amendment, Mr. Sertic, I tried to change it, to prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. It is possible that the legal process of changing the SAA is a much more complex thing. Some countries also changed constitutions, banned agricultural land by constitution, such as Poland and Hungary. But something has to come out of it. You are adopting the Investment Act, which also substitutes the Foreign Investment Act, it replaces it, and you will not accept an amendment that makes it impossible for foreign natural and legal persons to buy land in Serbia. And there it is, Mr. Sertice, by all accounts, what we do not agree on. You defend the possibility for foreigners to buy agricultural land, and every stranger, doesn't have to be very wealthy, say, the owner of the United Arab Emirates for his daily income can buy an entire village in Serbia, a whole village in Vojvodina, all with fields, forests and houses, for one day's income of his company or what he deals with. So it is not good for Serbia to enter the process of selling agricultural land to foreigners. In some ways, all countries have protected their agricultural land, those countries where agricultural land is primary. And here you are, Mr. Sertić, several times today - we accept the amendment to the economic coconut, and you do not accept my amendment to ban the sale of agricultural land. What is it, Mr. Sertice, an economic cocus? There's no such thing as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Economic Cocus. These are interests of foreign companies, verified by the will of the ministry you run and the government, nothing else. There's no economic cocus. Mr. Sertic, let me inform you, there is no economic cocus. There is someone packing in some foreign bank investor's office, some regulation, Amendment 6 and 7 you said you accepted, put it in a folder, bring it in and say, here, accept it. And you're saying-- he sent us an amendment to some economic cocussus. What kind of economic cocussus, Mr. Sertice? Not to say black Sertice. What kind of economic cocussus?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37313	Please, Mr. Veselinovic. You want me to take the rest of your time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37314	So, I ask, Mr Sertić, that you first accept an amendment that would prohibit the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, and on the other hand not to use a term that is past the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution. So, there are coconuts in the U.S. Congress, and there are no coconuts here. There are committees, parliamentary groups, MPs outside the parliamentary groups, there's something called a plenary session, and there's no economic cocuss, Mr Sertic. You've accepted amendments to something that doesn't exist. These are interests of foreign capital, foreign monoplass that you very successfully protect, giving you the best land in Belgrade, United Arab Emirates, which gave you a nice card yesterday, so they voted for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO. That was their card. Friends of Alexander Vukic, so they're not... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37315	Mr. Veselinović, it is a shame as a National MP to speak to you in such a way in the National Assembly and it is a shame that you do not understand anything. Mr Sertic said he accepted amendments from MPs gathered in economic cocus, and that is very clear. I don't understand what you're thinking or how you realize it, and even worse, you act like that in the National Assembly and insult the guests who came, the members of the government who came to the National Assembly to explain the law. But it's your manner of propagating lately. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37316	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, when I look at this amendment, I ask myself a question -- are you people blushing? Do you have any shame in you? I have to ask you why? You say yesterday the United Arab Emirates voted in UNESCO. And what did the United States, Great Britain, France, all the EU countries, if you will, just to limit ourselves, most of the EU countries, where you agreed to unilaterally apply the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so that you could have something to wave at in the campaign, and this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which you are now criticising, buried our peasants? You really buried them because you liberalized the import of agricultural products and, of course, made it possible to make such a provision regarding the sale of land to foreigners. And you're talking today and signing petitions against it, you who voted for it because it was important for you to have something to go out with in 2008, on the basis of which you won the election. Well, why didn't you criticize Bozidar Djelic at the time, when that feather was carried there and signed that agreement? How can you not be ashamed? Where were you then, Mr. Veselinović, to tell Djelic – don't sign that? It was important to you because that's how you bought voters. How can you not be ashamed? Today you're asking us to annul the international agreement that you agreed to unilaterally apply it to. So, you've been respected so much by those of the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37317	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, you cannot address another MP and return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37318	... that they didn't even want to apply it to you, but you agreed to a unilateral application because you acted as half-trons the worst. And you say something to someone today! So does this really make any sense? I ask, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to accept this amendment at all. Of course, there is a Law on Agricultural Land and of course there is no such thing to sell. I hope that the government of the Republic of Serbia will be able to find the best solution to protect national interests, but what they have gotten us into is really hard to correct today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37319	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected, amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law, for several reasons. The first reason, it's unclear who's even proposing this amendment. It says here some movement, "The Turnover Movement", and it's an independent MP. But what has made me more confused, it is the appearance of the proposing of this amendment that at one point says – our amendment insists on it – our amendment. I ask whose amendment, because then in the second sentence he denies the first, and he says, "I have submitted the amendment, and then he says, "our amendment." Whether he's persireing himself or whatever it is, I don't know. Then we could hear different concerns, concerns about the situation of investments, investment, etc., and in principle we heard how they cared about investment when they forced investors, and we presented concrete examples of what it looked like in their time. I understand he wasn't interested in it back then. That's when he was doing some other stuff. He was interested in other things at the time. Then he took care of some other interests. We can see that from his political movement, how it went around. He says – from 2004 to 2006, he was vice-president of the City Committee of DS in Novi Sad, and then he was a member of the Regional Committee of the DS, and finally the General Committee of the DS. In a professional sense, Mr. Chairman, this is where we record one advance in our professional career. He was appointed director of the Novi Sad City Assembly of Public Municipal Enterprise "Newsadska Toplana", and then assistant secretary of science and technology, and then MP after that. Of course, he failed to write that he was the chairman of the Management Board of the Public Communal Enterprise "The Road". Why am I saying all this? During Serbia's collapse, in every sense, he personally made very, very rapid and lightning progress in the DS, but also in the government of the province of Vojvodina, as well as in other organs. That's why we can't trust him today and we can't believe that his concern is true. When it comes to the amendment itself, a completely unnecessary amendment. So, it's clearly in the explanation the government provided us with. Therefore, according to this provision, agricultural land is subject to the Agricultural Land Act and this is a matter that is completely clear. It's completely, I'd say, a lot of noise about nothing. It's just another line about the economic cocus that he's having trouble with here for some reason. Economic cocus, and you should know very well because you are an expert in associations, whether citizens or whatever, the association of MPs of the same or similar definition. There's nothing to argue about. You are the great leader of a small association of citizens, and you should know very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37321	Thank you. The word has the head of the parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37322	Mr. Chairman, inconsistencies. Inconsistencies are a word to reject this amendment, inconsistencies because of the amendment's proposing. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are, of course, assembly committees foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but there are informal parliamentary groups. Informal parliamentary groups gather MPs from different political options, different political parties gathered around a similar goal. Kokus gathered MPs from nearly all parliamentary groups and from the parliamentary group and the opposition Democratic Party, and from the opposition SDS, brought together peoples and independent MPs. We managed to leave the party flags at the door of the coconut and talk and negotiate on issues concerning our economy. The results are visible. The results are visible to everyone, except for the amendment promoter who has so much trouble with the cocus, and he doesn't mind, say, a green parliamentary group. A green parliamentary group is doing a similar job as a cocussus does, as some other informal parliamentary groups do, as is ultimately an informal group of MEPs in the fight against corruption, and these are values that almost all parliaments have, not only in the environment, but almost all parliaments in the world. And what made the amendment promoter to be a member of the Green Parliament Group and when it comes to it can do anything, and when some other people, such as Mr Pavicevic or Mr. Vlad Marinkovic or Mr. Senic or other people from the government, talk about economic issues, about the economy, do not mention one single time a political party, let alone a group of citizens who are still not even formed, and it is somehow different, then it bothers someone in this hall, and it does not bother him that as an independent MP participates in the work of a green parliamentary group, and even to propose a law that is not bad. But why attack something else, which is also informal, which also does not exist in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and participate in such a similar body? Inconsistencies, Mr. Minister. Inconsistencies, as the amendment promoter voted, jipal, without the pen pouring truth, with the pen inflow only jipal Djelic, but jipal out of joy and voted with both hands for the SAA. The Stabilisation Association Agreement is a document that must be respected. Unserious would be a country that would be changing things that someone else had previously negotiated, arranged, and voted and received support in the National Assembly. Instead of rebelling at the time, the amendment promoter may have given the feather to Mr. Djelic, so he tells him – you had to negotiate better, so he tells him – you had to better protect the rights of the farmer, the agricultural land, so he could raise his voice and say, well, I won't vote for such an SAA. No, driven by pure pulsism, driven by the politics it sees from day-to-day politics and what will currently bring him some benefit. Inconsistencies, Mr. Minister. Inconsistencies, as the same amendment promoter voted to sell agricultural land to drug traffickers and did not mind when Saric bought land in Vojvodina. And he didn't mind, he voted for such laws and voted for such a government that sold land to Saric and his like. What about the share of Saric in Metals Bank, which became the Vojvodine Development Bank? And that's when he voted, because he was part of the majority, because it suits him, because he was tucked into power. Now, he's going to turn around and now he's going to say -- no, the amendment promoter from yesterday doesn't apply, now someone new, recycled, dragged through some political washing machine, washed by Saric, washed by the unnegotiated SAA, washed away by all the responsibilities he has due to the exercise of power until 2012. Well, it's not enough to change the name, and I can see that some of these halls here, not to change the name of the political party, would change their personal name just to be new people who will not be subject to weights, burdens and everything that burdened our society during the exercise of power. Just to make an offer, just to get to a new market. No, same dirty hands, same dirty cheek. In front of people with lots of sweet words, it won't go away. That is why inconsistencies are the word that makes the SNS this amendment, but also the majority of those amendments that come from inconsistencies and irresponsibility from that part of the political spectrum will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37323	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37324	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, so I, along with my colleagues who are members of the Economic Cocuss, can offer a previous speaker, or colleague to whom it is not clear what it is, a free education. There are Professor Vladimir Pavicevic on our team, Ivan Jovanovic, Zoran Babić, so I think that each of them would make an additional effort to carry out a short lecture and educate a colleague what an informal multi-party parliamentary group is, but we can also have our partners from USAID or any other organisation call and ask to give a lecture on how it works in developed countries where democracy is promoted and where it works at full capacity. Of course, I am as proud as my colleague Babic to resort to his speech, to the functioning and to our work. I am also proud when MPs and representatives of DS and SDS and SNS sign amendments and show that they are ready for dialogue and show that we are in Serbia, but here in parliament to reach a minimum of consensus on key and fundamental things for our country's development. In this speech and in the theories of the 21st century conspiracy, I see only one potential frustration that one might long to be a member of this Economic Cocus, but we in parliament cannot recognize someone who does not represent a political party, does not represent citizens, represents no one. But if someone needs additional knowledge, if someone needs a lecture, we're willing to organize it as an Economic Cocussus. There's one more thing about banks. The files that come to the minister are mentioned. I am sorry that we are having this dialogue and discussion in the Assembly, and neither have we nor the SNS brought these banks, we have brought the Turkish Bank here that bought the Cachanska Banka, which will be accompanied by Turkish businessmen and will be supporting Turkish investment here. We brought in a bank from the United Arab Emirates, but we didn't ask for an opinion like we used to on Shakespeare Street at the Association of Businessmen, we didn't look for it at Miroslav Miskovic's. Now we talk and co-operate, yes, and with the American Chamber of Commerce and with the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and with the Chamber of Small and Medium Enterprises and we are proud of this dialogue, we are proud of economic reforms and we are proud to show in Serbia that we can improve democracy and the development of this Parliament, agree together on key topics of importance for our country's development, both in political terms and economically, and every day and when the Law on Planning and Construction and when this Investment Law is, we also show thanks ministers that you are ready for the dialogue with the MPs, thank you for being prepared for the dialogue with local self-government representatives and I want you to continue that way. Is it a second solution not to have a dialogue, to get a finished opinion from Shakespeare or any other street, from some association that majorised everyone in this country seven, eight, or ten years ago and where all decisions were made both on privatisation and on monetary policy management and on fiscal policy management? I am convinced that if we continue like this, we are just reaching this necessary social consensus and, of course, the political stability that we have today, and when it comes to economic reform, we are on the right track. You have ministers full support from all of us here in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37325	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, replica on? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place:I was also mentioned by Mr Babic and Mr Marinkovic. Did you mention that, Mr. Marinkovic? You mentioned Mr. Pavicevic. You have the right to a replica, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic, the esteemed Mr. Sertic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, here is the mention of the Economic Cocus. It's mentioned here that I'm a member of the Economic Couscous. I want to confirm here that I am a member of the Economic Couscous that works in the National Assembly. I decided to participate in this body because I felt that this body should bring together those MPs from all the political groups here to contribute to the achievement of the conditions for a functioning market economy that must rest on the principle of the rule of law, gentlemen. During this time, I have not signed any amendments that have been submitted here on behalf of the Economic Cocus, so I have not signed any amendments that have been submitted to this bill. Why, dear gentlemen? Because my opinion was that the Economic Cocus, since it should focus on reforms, market economy, the rule of law, must be more determined to react to the content of a bill that I believe creates a stimulating atmosphere for corruption, gentlemen. We can't go to the Economic Cocus if we're in favour of the market economy, of the rule of law, to close our eyes here. When the economy minister comes, he institutionalises existing corruption and that the bill creates conditions for new corruption, gentlemen. Since I have now heard some inappropriate words from Mr. Babic about the functioning of the coconut and from Mr. Marinkovic, who is the president of the Economic Cocus, who certainly is trying towards Mr. Vesenovic and since the cocus in my court does not really do what it needed to be a function. I will no longer participate in the work of the Economic Couscous esteemed gentlemen, since I see that this has gone from the main direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37327	Mr. Risticevic, you're on the agenda? Mr. Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic, from the post: both in the Rules of Procedure and in the amendment, I reported back half an hour ago. ) Well, you can't do both, you can either by the Rules of Procedure or by amendment. If you're according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic, then I have to take the order. Mr. Veselinović, you have no right to a replica. There's a minister's advantage. Here you go, Mr. Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37328	Thank you. To return to the amendment itself, therefore, the availability of agricultural land has been defined by the Law on Agricultural Land and our intensity has not been in any way influencing and amending that kind of law, and I think the MPs have been very clear, who, when and in what way, has accepted the SAA, in which way it has been negotiated and what is the consequence of all this. What is very important to me to point out to you MPs from different political groups, I would like to point out that the Economic Cocus has made an extremely large contribution, not only to the realisation of this law, but also to many other activities, which are related to us daily economic activities. So here in the Serbian Parliament three months ago, we had one of the world's largest General Electric companies, over 30 of our companies that discussed opportunities and mutual co-operation. Economic cocus and all MPs participated in discussions and consultations and on the adoption of other laws that we have passed in the previous period and participate in writing current laws, so that I consider only the establishment of the Economic Cocus as one of the most important cards for good, the writing of laws for its implementation, and the great help of the government of Serbia's efforts to realise in the best possible way its objectives that we have defined, so that I believe that even a greater number of MPs should be involved, because the economy is the basis for our country's development, and based on it we can later develop with the full capacity of all other important social activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37329	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a replica, mentioning the name of Mr Pavicevic, and then having the word Mr Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37330	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I have been unjustly accused of inappropriate words, and the only inappropriate word, if that is the case, is membership in informal parliamentary groups. I've got a document here that says, "Green MP group, informal parliamentary group," so I don't want to read other colleagues, but please look under regular number two. Who's under regular number two? Mr. Janko Veselinović. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. And what's inappropriate about it? I have also said that these informal parliamentary groups give value because they leave party colors and party flags, outside the entrance of the Assembly Hall and the committee hall. What's inappropriate to say? The truth. Please, on the other hand, here is the accused government, accused Mr Sertic of institutionalizing corruption, so indirectly Mr Sertic, this is how the World Bank was accused. Indirectly accused is the World Bank. Why? Here I have the World Bank document on which this law is written, exact instructions as it was written from A to S. We also have in this pile of paper my and the support of the World Bank and the World Bank's opinion that this law is the most appropriate and best in world practice. That someone who, precisely because of waving these flags to the party and what is nice to accuse the Government of Serbia, is also accusing the World Bank. Sorry, we didn't write this law in the vineyard. We did not write, drinking wine, not turning these vineyards into apartments in Vračar, but we used best world practice and World Bank for formation and for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37331	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You have the right to a replica, Mr. Veselinović, but since I have already announced Mr. Risticevic, you will be entitled to a replica after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37332	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Guests. Since this is about agricultural land and what's been mentioned in the SAA, because of our viewers, farmers, I am obliged to tell the truth about it. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was adopted, signed in 2008, adopted in this House, seems to me, on 4 September 2008. I wasn't an MP at the time. If I had been, I would never have voted for such an SAA. But before the SAA, since here in the amendment, it is said that foreigners cannot be the owners of the country. Since 2000-2003, I have been an MP, and when I passed the Privatisation Act, I have been against the fact that natural resources of general interest are subject to privatisation, even in Article 3. Then one opinion by Minister Vlahovic became more important than the law, and then the party presidents and financial directors of the former regime began to work. So this is how it was negotiated with a cup and suddenly what the Law on Privatisation, the natural wealth of general interest, what was banned, was suddenly allowed, which some people, the financial directors of individual parties, one's godmothers, had in terms of agricultural land, and that what the Privatisation Act did not allow, however, the opinion of Vlahovic, the Minister of Business and Privatisation, to be the subject of privatisation. I also asked at that time that the storage facilities that were also easy prey in the privatisation along with this land should belong to farmers, i.e. to share their actions. They wouldn't let that happen. Agricultural land has become the property of these people, some of whom claim to be domestic. When they buy land they are domestic, when they buy yachts of money that they have drawn from that agricultural land and storage capacity, so money that is no longer reinvested in agriculture and the village, but invests in yachts, singers, etc., when they draw that money, then they register the yacht by side of the flag. When they take the money here, they're domestic, when they buy the land then they're domestic, then the financial directors are parties, but when they buy the yacht on which to pay the tax here, then they're in the party. He hangs foreign flags and thus avoids paying taxes. Next, that four-year-old in Vojvodina bought over 100,000 acres. It is about Miodrag Kostic, the financial director of the party of the former regime, the godfather of the Assembly, etc. at the time, Djordzija Nicovic, Petar Matijević and Miroslav Miskovic if I skipped it. A hundred thousand acres, a big four. Overnight. In my opinion, the country should belong to whoever's processing it, not to the one who's processing us. However, it was sold in such a way. Let's move on. This is about strangers. It's not true that foreigners aren't already landowners. "Balti Group" Irci, 10,500 hectares, with a wave in Serbia's Miletic, Bačka Brestovac and Feketic. Todorić – 6,000 hectares, "Zito group" Croatia – 2,000 hectares. So, and as they stepped into the duchy ores, then as the crown comes the SAA. Such an SAA has not signed any future EU member states in this form. Excessive liberalisation that cleaned up farmers, which was almost immediately, usually would have been signed by the future member states to match it, so customs with entry, a total drop in customs duties from the day of entry into the EU or year. Agricultural land could only be sold to foreigners ten years after joining the EU. There's been a five-year deadline here, and fortunately, Lithuania hasn't ratified that agreement for a long time, so we came not until 2016, I'm not a law professor, but I've looked at a bit of the SAA, and in 2017 it's a question, and this SAA didn't sign, I didn't vote for it. He's very bad, and he's guilty of the party of the former regime. A referendum initiative with 100,000 signatures cannot lead to a referendum because the referendum is not being conducted under Article 108. The constitution, on issues defined by international contracts, and the SAA is a multiple international contract. I'm not Dr. Legal Science, I don't teach students, but as a farmer I had to extradite from this topic and what someone says – We have submitted an amendment; someone who "turns" thinks there are two, although the professor of law, he can't look at what the SAA is, that it's an international agreement and that it's not possible to hold a referendum on this matter. We have agreed on a Committee on Agriculture and we have the government's good will to respect the SAA, but to allow foreigners as little as possible to buy land with as much difficult conditions as possible because it is allowed and some countries have done so. Believe that we will do so by the end of the period, but before that, we will return what the party of the former regime did not want already raised vineyards on such properties. We're going to return 100,000 acres of land in a natural restitution that they didn't want to return, first of all, wanting to transfer this land to these people, they didn't want to correct the old injustices. We'll do it. Also, at the request of farmers, the government decided to sell the country not to foreigners, but to sell some of the country's small property to natural persons, domestic farmers with less than 20 hectares to supplement their property and to be more economically efficient. We're not gonna sell foreign land to strangers, but we're gonna sell it to the locals. The rest of the country's agricultural land will be put into long-term leases in order to develop high-intensity livestock, fruit growing, vegetable production, energy production. I'm obliged to tell you, since it's not true what the amendment promoter claimed, adopted the SAA, sold the country, and now to us, they sold the country for the chair, and now they're trying to honor us for something they did. I believe they had a very thin vision, but I also believe they had a fat commission to do what I described. As for that speaker who has distanced himself from economic focus, these should be happy there because he has to do with the economy, like Eskimos in the North Pole with African heat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37333	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Replica two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37334	Thank you. First, in these two minutes, I will commend the honorary act of MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a member of the NS MP, who stepped forward both formally and officially from the economic coke "which works in the interest of foreign capital of private interest". About the SAA. You know who brought in the SAA and which party was formed to have the SAA voted. The SNS was formed to have the SAA voted. Everyone who talked about it earlier, like they forgot about that fact. True, some of them were before the creation of the parliamentary group, which was neither a group of citizens nor a party at the time, so they were only MPs in the Assembly who called themselves "Forward Serbia" and wrote above "Forward Serbia", as the PREKRET Movement should now write, some of them had voted before, the truth covered by the newspaper...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37335	Mr. Veseinovic, just to remind you of the difference between the parliamentary group and the individual, an independent MP. The Messenger's group is one thing, and the Messenger is another. You can't compare those two things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37336	You certainly know that there is no term for "independent MP" in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37337	But there are MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, in translation an independent MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37338	That's right, I belong to the Renewal Movement and that should say worse. But please let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37339	You can't compare that to the MP's group, Mr. Veselinovic. The MP's group is one thing, and the individual is an independent MP or an MP who doesn't belong to any of the MPs' groups is another.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37340	As they exist in the National Assembly, some write under their names. The MPs are independent and it says under the name of which the political option...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37341	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Time's up. (Janko Veseinović, from the place: So, when is... ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Let me finish. Time's up, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: How, so you spoke for me? Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37342	Will you let me work on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37343	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37344	I'm going to ask you to account for only these 15 seconds. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS was formed on 8 September 2008. It was created on the wings of the wishes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to change politics and things in Serbia for the better. The desire of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia was demonstrated in the 2012 elections in 2014, and I believe that due to the dedicated policy and one valuable and responsible policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, it will also be shown in many of the next elections. The majority, which was made in the Republika Srpska Assembly in 2008, was enough to vote and that it was out at night and they did not need any other parliamentary group or anything to vote on the SAA or anything else. Yeah, we voted. We voted because we wanted Serbia to move on and that is the wish that leads us today. But let's also demystify those votes and those cards under the paper. On one occasion here in this hall, the congregation's majority, represented by Mr. Vesenovic, did not have a majority, they preferred cafes, making combinations, personal wealth, censure of public enterprises, censure of the state, did not have the majority to pass the law, had no quorum to pass the law. What was the MP's group supposed to do then? Let's go home, as you would now do and say - they didn't vote well. That's what they're like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37345	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37346	No, we're not. That's why we always want to move on, and you'd be better off covering your head, Mr. Veselinovic, not talking here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37347	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinovic, for mentioning the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37348	Well, here, Chairman, I will do exactly as my previous speaker would not do, I will not continue this pointless debate. It's clear to all of us, today everything has been revealed here and in that sense by giving up the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37349	Thank you. We move to Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, together with the MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Besarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have put the amendment to Article 3(1), point (d) and that amendment, as stated in point 9 of the text, is not accepted. However, it has actually been accepted, because the whole point 2) has been changed, so the subpoint (d) that has been consumed at point 2) has been changed. So, we as SDPS are pleased that our amendment has been accepted, although formally legally it has not been accepted, because Amendment 1 accepted the change of the whole point 2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37351	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37352	I thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, today's debate is very interesting, if you were guided by the criteria when you punished me, you probably wouldn't be paid for a whole year after today's stories and everything that's been said, but you don't always follow the same criteria, and that's the biggest offense to this non-democratic government and this non-democratic parliament. But it's not about the amendment. The explanation of the amendment states that it is not accepted because it does not create a clear language and legal dilemma. However, two other objections in this amendment are much more important than what we have in mind. So, the SDS-ZZS-ZS believes that foreign investor status cannot and must not have a citizen of the Republic of Serbia with a permanent place of residence outside the Republic of Serbia for more than one year, as this opens up a space for abuse of law and even for committing crimes. If I listened carefully to my distinguished colleagues across the street, that's exactly what they resent to the former governments, which was some kind of manipulation, and here you are now opening up a space for such crimes that it's embarrassing and bringing it up. On the other hand, I took part in the Committee's work when the minister said that 80% of local self-government, I'm afraid that I don't use the same words, so that you don't punish me, which he used, doesn't understand what local self-government is doing and how foreign investors are dissipating by not having any idea how to bring in a foreign investor, and then he said he wasn't going to say it in the principle debate, but everything that's being said here is being recorded, so the record remains that you said it. We believe that local self-government units can, should also be centralised by Serbia, not Belgrade, that not everything can be solved in Belgrade. As you know, Mr. Sertic, we've been finishing colleges too, and we've been finishing colleges from the interior in Belgrade. I'm not sure that only you living in Belgrade have the right to determine Serbia's fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37353	Thank you. I'm amazed, Mr. Karic, that you resent me for not punishing your envoy who left you. (Ivan Karic, from the post: Your MPs. I thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37354	I think we have made it very clear to this law that we have just given unequivocally support to all units of local self-government through the structure that we have made the law, through the obligation of their work and through clearly defined forms of how, to whom and how they will connect with other state bodies, therefore, from the Republic government, from ministers or ministries to state agencies and all participants in the process. I can't agree with you that in any way we've derogated or diminished the importance of local self-government. On the contrary, I keep talking about how important local self-government is to bring investors, so not only foreign ones, but how important local self-government is to help existing businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises operating in local self-government territory, because any company that comes from five or ten jobs to five or ten thousand jobs is again located somewhere in a local self-government unit. What you mentioned earlier on the Committee, I did not say 80%, but I commented on the work and behavior of 90% of local self-government and I stand behind what I said, that it is reluctant, that not knowledge and desire, or lack of desire to deal with the economy present in the largest number of our local self-governments. I understand the problems local self-government has. It is clear to me that there are great differences between local self-governments in their potentials, in natural resources, in human resources and in all other elements that define efficient and good work, but you have examples of local self-government that have almost nothing to do with these resources that I have said, and you have people who are very valuable and committed to this job. So I didn't measure the quantity of the number of investors brought in or the number of domestic companies working in a particular unit of local self-government. I was talking about the relationship between people who run local self-government towards our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37355	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the distinguished Minister Sertic, the honored guests and guests of the ministry, we MPs of the New Party have submitted to the proposal for a law on investment, and please, Mr. Becic, that this electronic device for mathematical operations begins to measure those five amendments minutes for this amendment, so I have seven now. Is the device on? We People's MPs of the New Party have submitted, gentlemen, 58 amendments to the proposal for a law on investment, and that is MP Zoran Zivkovic 29 amendments, and I have submitted 29 amendments. No amendment, gentlemen, submitted by the People's MPs of the New Party has been accepted. I would now like to inform the MPs of this, and in particular I declare a surprise that no amendment to any draft law has been adopted, which apparently, gentlemen, creates a stimulating atmosphere for corruption, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. Mr. Sertić, I want on this first amendment, which we have submitted to Article 3. The bill, to ask you for one thing, is that we absolutely focus our attention on the content of this bill and our amendments, because I don't think this bill should pass into the Assembly. I'm going to offer arguments for that attitude. I will here, Mr Sertic, remind you that your colleague, Minister Vujovic, was in a similar situation when we warned him of a similar argument that the bill on the sale of certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia must not pass in the Assembly, because it is anti-constitutional, because it is harmful, because it stimulates corruption. What happened, Mr. Sertice? This is where the bill passed, but the President of the Republic intervened and returned to re-determination, and then Mr. Vukic withdrew the law from the assembly procedure. Mr. Sertic, I think you're a serious man. You participated in dialogues in the National Assembly, you made certain arguments. I think this argument, which we are offering, should once again picture you about the content of this bill. As long as we have time, gentlemen, for a serious debate, for serious orientation, I will try to convince the MPs and you, Mr Sertic, to change your position on this bill. Mr Sertic, Articles 11 and 12, for example, are direct examples of the stimulating atmosphere for corruption created by this bill. So, members 11 and 12, gentlemen. We have so detailedly explained our amendments to these members, gentlemen, Mr. Babic. Mr. Sertic, there is another part of my argument here, and it concerns what our words are and what our actions are. Your words during our last meeting at the National Assembly session, Mr Sertic, were read – the economy above politics. It's a philosophy, dear gentlemen, which I also advocate. The economy above politics. It's a formula that keeps behind itself a system of ideas, beliefs, values, opinions, which I also advocate in politics. Dear gentlemen, what's the problem? The problem is that your actions, Mr. Sertice, are contrary to what your words are. So, on this bill of law, we have an absolutely opposite philosophy of what your words are. Here, in view of this bill, the second formula, Mr. Sertic, is a policy over the economy. I am deeply interested in our amendment to this article, how do you justify it, Mr Sertic, that your actions in our National Assembly are contrary to what your words are? Here's an example of the law, Mr. Sertice, very clearly, precisely. It says in the law – the government determines what investments are of special importance, stuck, without or with minimal, and that means to me insufficient, public participation, Mr Sertic. What is it, but advocating politics over the economy? Mr. Sertić, the government decides on everything without any or minimal, and for me that means insufficient mechanisms for the government's work control in this area. Mr. Sertic, the economy above politics means the rule of law. This bill is the opposite of that, meaning public participation. This bill is contrary to that, meaning control of the work of the executive authority. This bill of law, Mr. Sertic, is the opposite. Here's the evidence, Mr. Sertice. May I have your attention too, Mr. Sertic and your associates and your associate and fellow Members here, to reconsider once more what we are doing, what content of what kind of bill are we adopting here? For me, Mr. Sertich, all that stands here is a blow to a healthy economic logic. Healthy economic logic means functioning market economy, rule of law, and here we don't have that. I've brought the evidence here, Your Honor. Mr Sertic, plus, this amendment is also a blow to the language, spelling, grammar of the Serbian language, because in Article 3 we have suggested that in the appropriate places, according to the Serbian language rules, they be stuck. You said: We do not put it, for it already exists. There is no, and in Article 14, for example, the bill exists what we propose for Article 3. Same case, same thing. How come you are not at least for these linguistic reasons, Mr Sertic, even if we say – let's respect Serbian, we did not accept this amendment and all 58 of our proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37357	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: If I have a little more time to explain our amendments... Be parliamentary, Mr Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37358	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, Article 106. You had to pay attention, because the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We had just heard the explanation of the amendments that had nothing to do with the amendment. Whoever here could have heard the word of one single amendment, which was explained by the applicant, did not say. I would ask you not to abuse this assembly pay phone for your political views. We heard a bunch of general places here. Apparently, evidence was provided. We haven't heard any evidence. It's nice this way for the media to quote someone, eventually record it, and then post it, but I'd really like to ask you to take care of the high house and not allow this kind of thing anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37359	You are absolutely right, Mr Djukanovic, but unfortunately I cannot explain to the MPs that when they submit to the amendment they must have a good explanation for the amendment. In the absence of an explanation, this kind of thing happens. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37360	I thank you, Chairman. First, I thank you for following philosophy, politics or whatever you call it, you yourself said that I mentioned it here a few months ago when we were bringing amendments to the Privatisation Act and when I realized at one point that we were more important to the economy and that we would give priority to the economy over politics. You have now confirmed that this is one of the most beautiful principles of your life. However, here you have criticised why we have placed certain government in certain members of this law. You, Mr. Pavicevic, Professor, are hitting on the foundations of democracy. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia serve, what do the ministries serve, if you do not leave certain obligations to be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by all laws, by all regulations, by the Constitution and by all other positive democratic and other principles? How do you really think any law in this country can be implemented if a particular ministry or general government of Serbia is not implemented in it and does not contribute? Since you've spread the story to members 11 and 12, I'm just going to remind you, on behalf of democracy, on behalf of the public, on behalf of work and all that. For the first time in one law of this type, very clearly defined criteria are mentioned on the basis of which there will be a difference between investment at the place and investment which is important and which is of particular importance. I'll just count it very briefly. Therefore, the number of new jobs affecting employment in the local self-government unit, the type and amount of investment, the impact on the total external trade balance, the long-term investment, the creation of a high value or high value or the reference and credibility of the investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37361	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go. I apologize, the first replica of your presentation has the right of MP Zoran Babic. I'm sorry, my bad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37362	Mr. Chairman, with respect for the arguments put forward by the esteemed counterpart Djukanovic, and that, apart from the last ten seconds of Mr. Pavicevic's presentation, there was nothing other than the amendment itself, but some general places and crocodile tears, why would that percentage of the amendments adopted put them down where they belong, and that is below the censorship, I have not heard any other argument. On the other hand, the argument offered by Mr Sertic, the argument I speak of today and two days ago and I will talk about in the coming days, is this book, the photocopyed truth, which is the World Bank's instructions for making investment laws. The World Bank's instructions have been consulted from the beginning to the end. From beginning to end, and that's why we got the World Bank's support that this law is the best practice in the world. That's why we got IMF support for this bill. That's why we got the support of the American Chamber of Commerce. That's why we got the support of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. By tomorrow, I can list the support of all those institutions, international and financial institutions that have given support to this and this legislative proposal, or the Investment Law. Now, I apologize, on the other hand, which of all these institutions, in the world contexts known, will come Mr Pavicevic and say – nothing is wrong, there is no rule of law. No rule of law for the World Bank? Okay. No rule of law for the IMF? Dangerous words for someone who deals with politics anywhere, even in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37363	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37364	There's no rule of law for the American Chamber of Commerce either? There is no government in the public debate where all economic operators in the Republic of Serbia have been consulted?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37365	I thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37366	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37367	The word is Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Just tell me, is it a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I would first at the presentation of Mr. Minister, then at the presentation of Mr. Babic. But Mr. Sertic didn't mention you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. So ask him. Here, you have a two-minute line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Honored Minister Sertic, Honored Guests and Guests, firstly to tell Mr Babic what asked the question - how long has the new party arrived when no amendments have been accepted now? Thanks to the actions of this government, we are now, Mr. Becic, to hear Mr. Babic, at 7.5% support in the electoral body. It's a good result for us, Mr. Becic, for the past year and a half. So, 7.5% of the starting position for the next snap parliamentary elections when the Prime Minister resigns. I'm pleased, and we're going to the higher, honored gentlemen. The more we grow, the more advanced the most declines. I don't think that's a dilemma for anyone. Another thing, Mr. Sertić, to tell you, you are asking a question - and what is the government for, what is the ministry for, if not for, to be given to, or to you, certain responsibilities as provided for by this bill? And then I ask you, Mr. Sertice, what does parliament serve if it does not serve to control, for example. executive power? What, in a modern democratic state, Mr Sertic, is the rule of law, if you delete it as a rubber, as you do, Mr Sertic, by this bill? Then why is he talking about reforms, if there's no rule of law, if there's no market economy? Well, we have finely written – a special danger from this member of the bill that you have submitted, article 11, regarding the possibility of granting state aid without a public call, which is absolutely unacceptable for the functioning of a state based on the rule of law. Do you agree, Mr. Sertice? If you agree, withdraw this bill in time, and let us focus on the rule of law, gentlemen, towards the market economy and indeed on what reforms mean for our terms, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37369	Replica, we have Very cultural, Mr. Pavicevic. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Is the replica extended to me, Mr. Becic, to continue?]] The word is from MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Pavicevic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37370	Mr. Chairman, I will agree with the previous speaker that they have these 7.5% support, with one but. Since his party did not go to the elections alone, but in one coalition with the DS, I believe they have in that coalition 7.5% of what the entire coalition has. Since that entire coalition has, somewhere there's a fight for censorship, a cramping struggle, but let's buy it 5.01%, 7% of 5.01% is 0.35%. Now that's the value of the previous speaker. And even if they were given it, I think you'd immediately sign and I believe you'd buy me lunch for it, or whatever, because they don't have that much. So, that math 7% of this censorship that has all the coalition, I think that's what it's supposed to be. Mr. Minister, not by any chance, not that you didn't withdraw this law, but anything. We must no longer allow this dark villa in which these incentives were divided by hand and hat from vineyards to various other things. I know that this form of rule of law in which they get before the resources than vineyards, or before vineyards than land, or something like that, that's the environment they'd like to bring us back to. The environment in which you had to withdraw hundreds of contracts? How many contracts did you have to break up? How much of the funds were burned through such dark fairies the absence of such a transparent law? For this reason, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of the opportunities we have lost in the past, I ask you not to withdraw this law and continue on, in the same way – the economy above politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37371	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You no longer have the right to a replica, Mr. Pavicevic, because a very skilled speaker has avoided mentioning your name and name. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who proposes the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37372	This is the first of the 29 amendments I submitted, and Mr Pavicevic also submitted the same number of amendments in the same text. This shows our concern for the fate of this country, and that is why we want to make a full contribution to today’s debate in the congregation of this law. Regardless of the attempt of humor and the smile that follows this discussion, I think it's a very serious matter with this law. I offered the minister an honorable way out of this yesterday. I said his law was set up, so he probably didn't know what he was signing, or he was ordered, as we just heard, that he couldn't walk away from this law, not regretting that in that fight that I didn't even know what. But apparently the minister is behind this law, so from now on I consider him a legitimate representative of this bill. The first amendment to Article 3(1) of point 6 shall be technical in nature and shall aim to describe this law. Of course, without any ambition to change the law for the better, because it can't change for the better, but just to point to one mistake that may be a failure, perhaps negligent. It was rejected because they say it is already contained in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 6), that there are sub-paragraphs (a) and (b). What's the point? The text reads under b) – a legal person established or financed in general, i.e. in the principal part of the public administration or any of the authorities referred to in point (a) of this point. When you have no brackets in front of the letter "a" and behind the letter "a", then "a" becomes a letter in a sentence and then you have to put a comma in front of it. That's what the spell of the Serbian language says. If you're referring to subpoint a, as you think in subpoint b, then you need to put these...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37373	Are you using your five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37374	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37375	Thank you. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37376	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 4 of Article 2 deletes for the simple reason that I have the impression that you want to find out which path to legislation to protect yourself when it comes to your projects, i.e. those interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your strategic partners. We consider it a direct project of the "Belgrade on Water" contract, and when it comes to subsidisation by the state, it would be worth it to any of the people sitting next to you, Mr Sertic, to build a hotel, a bar and a shopping mall there, along with all the subsidies that the state or the city of Belgrade has given to their friend, Mr Albar. What this way is determined by your new bill is that they would somehow further strengthen and protect themselves when it comes to suspicious investments that have been coming in the last few years. With this directly linked to "Belgrade on Water", I think that as a minister of the economy you have planned to create a major momentum and move things from a dead spot after four years, that you have in mind that the investors you are giving everything as a state, which is the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we understand that you are taking pensioners, and students, and pregnant women, and maternity parents, and doctors, and teachers, and you are giving your strategic partners who are of several international courts, pardon the courts of some other countries, invited to give a statement on suspicious investment in those countries. One of them is India and you need to know who you're dealing with and how you spend money on Serbian citizens. The fact that you're about to pass another member of the law in this bill, in order to further protect yourself. I don't think you'll have any protection when the elections come, because citizens know how and how you spend their money, their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37377	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go. You've heard from him before, Mr. Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37378	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, this amendment cannot be accepted, and it is no wonder that we have been listening for three months when we talk about investments, not arguments on the contrary from the president of the city board of a party that has destroyed and destroyed Belgrade's economy. When you say your projects, there is nothing of ours, the projects are the Governments of the Republic of Serbia, the projects are aimed at bringing one space that 70 years, almost 70 years is a ruined state, where the drug lords flourished, where we had 50 abandoned and old ships brought into one state that would be a representative of our capital on the one hand, and on the other hand we have some of these investments in the Republic of Serbia's budget where we can then invest further. I'd just like to ask if you could keep it down a notch. Also, you say it's someone's investment, if you had invested three euros in the "Belgrade on Water" project or any project, we would have congratulated you, rather than putting those three euros in the register in Kronska. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, You say, Etihad, so what kind of JAT you left behind. We lost between 50 and 70 million every year. Today, "Er Serbia" is the leader in the region when we talk about an air carrier. These are concrete results. You're saying we're kidnapping someone, so what are we supposed to do when you haven't left anything behind? You can't take something that doesn't exist. You left only in 2012 before the six billion-euro vote to win the election and failed to win it. We are changing the system today and changing Serbia. Today, we want both domestic and foreign investors to have the same rights and that this country develops, that it no longer robs, that we no longer have Delta, that we no longer have any tycoons that have become overnight thanks to their good contacts in power. And there's one more thing I want to say, because you're nonstop talking about elections and you're calling for elections and you're saying that you're going to win, I don't doubt that you're not going to go over the censorship of that alone, but I don't understand the DS in a situation like this today, a very small party fighting for censorship, which doesn't have much to say, the leader, now we only have Bojan Pajtic, we used to have ten leaders who have all dragged on our side, I don't understand how Mr Miroslav Vasin, the chairman of the D.S. Regional Committee says – the Democratic Party is against the republican elections. You guys know each other. I just don't get it. For five days, you accuse us of being scared of the election and calling for the same, and then the president of your District Committee, who will most likely be a candidate, perhaps for the Prime Minister when the time comes, says he won't and advocates not going to the Republic elections. So you can't make a deal between yourselves. What's your policy? Guys, are you up for the election or not for the election? Mr. Bozovic is for elections, Mr. Vasin is not for elections. Mr. Pajtic is for the republican elections, but not for the province's elections. So what an amazing mix of some statements coming from the DS presidency, which means you don't know which way you're going. You're afraid, of course, of choice, but we're not afraid of choice. The Serbian Progressive Party is for elections. Don't be surprised, it might be, but you're dealing with your party. Do not frighten the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Beograda on Water project, I say responsibly, if you go to that move today where it will be built you can see that finally someone has started to work, to edit, to arrange. Well, guys, what you left us on that move. You've seen the pictures, we've shown here every MP could've gotten a single picture of himself, so 136 pictures of what a ruin you've left us. A percentage of 32 of the project's revenue goes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, after we're all together here, we can discuss how we're going to spend money, but let's make some money so we can see where we can focus it. You had good financial elements and backgrounds and 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and in 2008, but you didn't take advantage of it. Mr. Bozovic, well you're the head of a committee group like me, your party, and I, of course, am in the Belgrade City Assembly, 21% was a deficit in the capital. What are you talking about? I come from the Palilu municipality where I live, as far as I know for myself, not one single investment in that municipality has I seen, not one single one, except that there was wild construction, except that no building built has any possible paper and, of course, that nobody can drive those people out into the street. But if you'd brought in at least one investment, to hire ten people, so that a man could tell you something you did. So I thank Minister Sertic, because he wants to make local self-government and fight for it, first of all, to better control them and to have as much communication as possible with all the institutions in our country to help out. I'm not just accusing the local community, there may be people who don't have the right to reach someone, but they shouldn't even come to someone on a phone call, but we need to have institutions to deal with this problem and then the president of the municipality or mayor can exercise his right to say I have an investor and that the state is involved and to help him. We're setting up a system, but you know what, the habits change the most difficult things in life. If we all start that by ourselves, the hardest thing to do is change some habits. You've had long-standing habits, and that's anarchy, there's no system, there's no poisoning amongst yourselves because you have leaders who have taken as each and every one of their pieces in that power, and that's how you acted. Now, you've come where you are. Hold on to that little power you have in Vojvodina. You're accusing us of not calling the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37379	Mr. Jovic, all you have to do is go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37380	Of course, it's very important. Elections are always important.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37381	I know that's your way of explaining why you don't think it should be deleted in Article 4, item 2, but you need to do a little bit more about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37382	Why is it important that we do not have the elections in at least the next six months, I will turn my speech, if you agree with the chairman, because we want to end up in the reform process some other things that will surely guarantee stability in economic terms. But, Mr. Becic, President at this time of the National Assembly, I want to say something, so you say we can't discuss elections, and we have 54% citizens' support, and you're 6% in the province government and you don't have morals or any moral principle to say -- people so we don't deserve this. Let's go to the election and see who wins. Since you say we're scared, give us an example, since you're so scary, since you're so powerful, you have a minister in the shadow, the police, Mr. Sutanovac, I know you have repressive levers in your hands, call elections, clean us up, and see what happens. However, I end up with that, seeing as you turned on the microphone again to warn me, it will not happen, because Serbian citizens will never again and do not want to watch the robbery you left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37383	I thank you, Mr. Jovic. Mr Bozovicu, you are right, it is not a pure replica, you signed up earlier, but when you didn't have the basis for the replica, as if you knew your name would be mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37384	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, we can agree that after all the promises you've made, in Belgrade, just a few years ago, so you never mentioned the Metro you caught up with in 2008, you couldn't let it go, it'll be over as soon as we get to power. You never mentioned him again. For Belgrade's teachers, we're going to raise salaries by 20%, so it says here, it seems to me that they've been reduced, the 13th pension will remain and socially threatened by pensioners, I don't think these pensions are gone anymore, we're not going to cut pensions as acquired rights, I think they've been reduced, we've offered you a model of reconstruction as in the King, you didn't want to accept it, and Obrenovac is still unrenewable. When it comes to helping farmers from Obrenovac, this year it is not paid. You said you'd solve the city transport problem, the deficit's getting bigger and bigger, you paint buses, Mr. Jovicic, I'm glad that's what SNS paints, but you need to know that these buses don't work. Over 200 have broken down in the last few months, "Belgrade on Water", as the crown of your policy, not to mention the culture that has disappeared in Belgrade, you have a lot of right to be angry, but I am offering to discuss the elections in Belgrade. Since you're standing so well in Belgrade, let's discuss the election, you and Sinisha Mali call the elections in Belgrade, resign as appropriate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37385	Time. Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Jovicic, since your name and name are mentioned, you have the right to a replica, but I would ask you to address me rather than the MP who challenged you in a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37386	Of course, Mr. Chairman. It'd be a tough fight for the election. I suppose you're offering yourself, that you'll be a candidate in front of the DS and hurry up, because maybe Pajtic doesn't like it, we saw Borko Stefanovic go by. On the other hand, you say we don't mention Metro, so you held a conference in the Serbian Parliament, where you said we were going to change the urban plan at the Beograd on Water move, that it was a fraud of the century, and we said we were doing it because of Metro, because we're looking a little further from the day-to-day policy that you're conducting. We watch what happens in five, ten and fifteen years. Well, whoever rules Serbia. So you're not following the media at all, and that's what I'd advise you to do, since you're in public business, first of all. You say you offered us a restoration as in the King. Gentlemen, there wouldn't even be any Obrenovec, there wouldn't be anything left of the Obrenovac. We are aware of how you participated in the restoration of the Kings, robbed everything you could. First, you steal from children who are distracted by development, and before that, you've stolen from people who've been hit by that disaster. At least you're invited as the crown of everything to talk about GSP. You say 200 buses don't work. How it doesn't work, when you were 15 years old your director, so was Ceran, so there's no one, so there's Sofronic and everyone else who bought it, and I say again two years of fighting never to make that purchase, because of the percentages you took, which is 300 "Solaris" buses and that you're not ashamed of, you bought a foreign producer, destroying "Icarbus", so I'd rather buy a broken "Icarbus", which makes Serbian economy, but the most modern bus coming from abroad, because we stand for the Serbian economy, for our worker, and you've driven 400,000 people out into the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37387	Time. Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Unfortunately for you, Mr Bozovic, it is the said DS and it is mentioned Mr Pajtic, but unfortunately you are not an authorised representative of your parliamentary group, and your esteemed name is not mentioned and you do not have the right to reply. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37388	I have to admit, when I read this, what they stand for in the explanation of this amendment, I thought someone was joking, really, but I can see that they even explained it. Otherwise, I have to admit, an amendment from the SDS, which also applies to this member, makes sense in some ways, at least people are looking for legal protection, so legal protection is put on. The government has given some of its contrasting arguments, but here the fellows who have now explained this are asking to completely erase investor protection. It's totally amazing that there's no security for the investor and his investment. I can't believe they're used to it, because there was a system, especially in Belgrade. For example, the firm "Keminski" comes in and wants to open a hotel, and they come up and they invent that birds on the great War Island will be threatened, so that they have to raise some towers and essentially demand percentages and of course people have no legal certainty to invest and give up. One such firm leaves Belgrade, it's all done in their time or, say, people come and invest money the way the law imposed it, and then they change the law in the meantime, so people are looking for extra percentages and it worked out, there was neither legal nor any other protection. Now we have a finally naked system as you might like a party who submits such an amendment, that there is no protection for the investor. This is truly something unheard of, but let it remain for the history of the citizens, let them hear this, so that the gentlemen of the party who have submitted this amendment, they demand that there is no protection for any investor, whether foreign or domestic, does not matter, but simply that there is no protection for these people. It's really nowhere in the white world, but it was someone here in Serbia who wanted to break through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37389	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37390	I thought I didn't understand the best way, Mr. Djukanovic, and I think you just gave me the confidence that what I wanted to comment on wasn't a good idea, because I couldn't believe that someone was looking for an outing of an entire investment protection attitude. Article 4 has two short positions. The first is – domestic and foreign investors enjoy the freedom to invest in accordance with the Constitution and the law, guaranteeing the right to invest in everyone. In the second position, it is said – protection is guaranteed by investments carried out in accordance with the law. So, perfect, clean, clear legal sentence guaranteeing investment security. I thought it was a mistake, but you confirmed that I wasn't wrong about it. This government, this law works precisely to protect investment and we want all our investors, both domestic and foreign, to have all the rights guaranteed by law in Serbia, to feel at home, to do their job for the benefit of our citizens, to earn as much money as possible to leave as much money to our citizens, but also to the state through tax and taxi payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37391	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37392	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 4 speaks, as the minister reads, on the freedom of investment and guarantees - domestic and foreign investors enjoy the freedom of investment in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which is very important, especially this word "the Constitution", because the Constitution guarantees the rights of both foreign and domestic investors. And that's good, that's a good attitude in this law. Then, the next position says – protection of investments carried out in accordance with the law is guaranteed. We added, we realized it was legal protection, we think it's logical. And speaking of investor protection, this law, in my opinion, Mr. Minister, needs to endure serious corrections, because this law does not give the same rights to foreign and domestic investors. If we consider Article 3(2), below c), which says that every foreign investor that is our Serbian resident, or Serbian citizen, lives across the border for a year to understand me, has the right to be treated as a foreign investor when investing in Serbia. And then Article 14 says foreign investors are free from paying customs duties on everything they need in the process of production. So I don't see how our investors are equal to foreign investors? Then we have a Article 7 that says foreign investors have the rights guaranteed by law, unless this law says otherwise, and that's Article 14 that frees them from paying customs. And first of all, I'd like to hear from the minister that these are our investors who have the same rights under this law, equal to foreign investors who pay less customs, if we know that whoever invests is looking at the cost and expenditure side, that is. The income and expenditure side, where his investment in equipment is in the construction of the expenditure side, so his profit ends up with the difference between costs and income, is normally that whoever is the foreign investor will have a customs charge of 20% higher income because he gave less money in the basic investment. The second question is, how is it that our citizens who have stayed abroad for a year have the right to a foreign investor and whose money do we now need to bring into the country, Mr Sertic? Whose money? From where? Isn't that the possibility of corruption and abuse? Whatever you're formulating in this law, whoever controls, isn't that the possibility of corruption and don't you think those who think they're breaking the law, and it's your duty to stop it, will not ask someone across the border to import equipment as a co-investor or that we won't launder someone's money to get back into the country? I'd like to make a mistake and I'd like you to answer me. And another question -- how is this going to have an incentive to the economy of the city of Nis and where you see Nis Nisa economy, because I've asked you a parliamentary question and so far, three times, especially when the machinery and electronic industry lost those benefits and when it went bankrupt, let's tell us how we're going to reduce 40,000 unemployed in Nis because, as far as I can tell you, we can only do it from local budgets, and Belgrade is taking care of the Republic budget, whatever the Belgrades say. I don't think that's good, and I think about that money that we should have focused more wisely and encouraged the economy and the employment that we all advocate, and Belgrade should be walled up like we build our cities...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37393	Please, Mr. Braddick, just come back on the subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37394	Just a second, from the local self-sufficient, gentlemen. What does water, electricity and sewerage of the Sava plateau have to do with the republican budget? What's that got to do with anything? What does investment in apartments have to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37395	And what does this have to do with your amendment, Mr. Bradich?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37396	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman, but I have to say what's bothering me. I don't have anywhere to go. What does that have to do with the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37397	We'd all like to say what's bothering us, but we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bradic. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37399	I am sure that the honourable MP in no way meant certain discriminatory measures against any of our fellow citizens or rights that they can make their lives come true. However, we have fully equalized domestic and foreign rights with this law, so it is completely irrelevant on which side of the line there is a fellow citizen. You are absolutely right that in Article 14 the only place where there is a difference between domestic and foreign investors is the issue of customs incentives, or customs regulations. However, we could not change the customs regulations and customs laws by this law, but we will do so through tariffs and I said so in principle debate, so that through this procedure we will also fully equalise this formal part of the rights of domestic and foreign and then it is completely irrelevant which side our citizen is living abroad, whether he has any other rights. So, any corruption or any negative behaviour in that sense, neither is it possible, it was neither intention nor legislator nor anyone here in the Serbian Parliament, so, in any case, I thank the question asked, because it allowed me to answer one of these questions that could be practically the subject of some debate and controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37400	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37401	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand the esteemed colleague who put up with this and I say, that amendment makes sense to some extent, looking for legal protection, although not only can everything be reduced to legal protection. It just has to be a lot wider, but it's important that you have that kind of understanding. However, I'm glad that you, Mr. Sertic, have now explained that at least in customs there will be no such possible abuses that could come, but we here need to understand some of the things where everything is at present, and where we are currently, because we are constantly talking about how the state should encourage, I don't know, production somewhere. People, self-government socialism died, it doesn't exist anymore. I might want us to go back to that period, so as you say, the machinery industry, the electronics industry, but it's not competitive today, simply, you can't go out on a world market because you can't produce as much quality as you can, let's just say, do some German company. In a situation like this, when almost nowhere else has capital, there's no investment in Europe, it's a big problem, you have to fight in every way possible to attract some foreign investor to come to you, it's our only chance. Of course you're supposed to help a domestic producer, but we don't have them anymore, we've ruined our economy and every producer's abnormal intrusion, corruption, creepy privatisation we've ever produced here. Unfortunately, it was a period when your option ruled. Now we're where we are and we're in a position to literally fight for every factory that comes here. Today, the greatest patriotism is to provide a job. There is no greater patriotism today than to secure a job. You can only do that if you give some and reliefs somewhere or allow someone to come here otherwise there's no other way. If you want, if you're trying to get back self-government socialism so that the state encourages the production of a factory or I don't know what, okay, run it in the election, but I'm not sure that in the global and world currents that are currently going through it. Just don't push yourself into the EU, then. In the EU, such a model exists. So there's no possibility of having that kind of economy, you're even asked to almost everywhere the state comes out of the economy. So here is a creepy neoliberal capitalism that has led us to where we are and now the situation is what it is, what we do, we fight for every investor and according to it, of course, it's such a law, and it's certain that such a model is better or more acceptable to the general masses. However, it is simply something today that is unsustainable and almost impossible, and also our economy, objective to be, is not competitive with major economies in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37402	Thank you. Mr. Bradiche, by amendment? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37403	In this amendment that I filed on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I asked that an existing member of the law be deleted. Mr Sertić, my opinion, and consult legal experts, that the Institute for the Protection of Rights acquired in our legal system is known and that it is sufficiently well-founded and that one such member is not required to jump out of the existing legal system, and the legal system must be a unique non-reversible legal continent. This is what gets out of that frame. Why? Because this Article 5, which you have proposed, states that if an investor has acquired his right by means of a freight contract from a transporter whose right is established by a judicial administrative act, and subsequently that act is abolished by an emergency remedy, the right of a security investor cannot be withdrawn or restricted. What's the paper here? Here the paper is an emergency remedy, or an emergency legal remedy. The rights acquired are rights acquired. Therefore, any legal means, regularly or exceptionally, cannot affect the rights acquired. Mr. Sertic, you're creating a legal curse here. You said in an explanation, he says – this determines full legal certainty through the Institute for the Protection of Encouragement Rights of Investors. It already exists. But I'm asking you, where did the pensioners' rights come from? How did you get pensioners' rights to derrogate by law, and how did you not call for acquired rights then, Mr. Becic telephoned, so I can continue, how could you not call for those acquired rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37404	Time. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37405	There is no problem here with your interpretation of the second member of this bill, but in your amendment you have foreseen and proposed to the National Assembly to delete the complete article 5, and now, honourable MPs, I will read you the first position of Article 5. – the investor enjoys full legal certainty and legal protection in respect of the rights of investments acquired. If we need to erase it, you'll decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37406	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37407	Thank you. The investor enjoys full legal certainty and legal protection in respect of the rights acquired by investment. When a doctor proposes to delete this, I don't know if it's a title or a diagnosis. This is almost amazing. I'm a farmer man, I could never suggest something like this, and a doctor of science has dared, which would mean that if it were erased, about a doctor would define science, that would mean this - the investor does not enjoy full security, full legal certainty and does not enjoy legal protection in terms of investment rights. If we were to vote in favour of this amendment, I don't think it would be possible, not to measure it to some legal someone, it could not be measured by any medical means. I don't know how they'd treat us if they adopted this amendment. Plus, in the explanation of the amendment, the amendment promoter mentions acquired pensioners' rights. The acquired pensioner's rights have been reduced. He questioned them, he and his, he and his former regime party, the moment they cleaned up 400,000 jobs and promised 200,000 jobs immediately, and instead cleaned up 400,000 jobs immediately and shortly afterwards, when they executed the lustration of workers and cleaned up factories from workers, fields from peasants and tractors, at that point, cleaning up 400,000 jobs destroyed pensioners' rights. Imagine 400,000 contributions, that people didn't lose their jobs. Imagine 26% on 400,000 new salaries. Would the pensioner's rights have been violated then? No, pensions would have increased by 15%. This looks to me like killing a man and coming after him and moaning at his grave, killing these villains, etc. Someone on the side who's looking, says, sees how nice he calls it. That's how this looks to me like a narrator, who's calling over acquired pensioners' rights, even though cleaning 400,000 jobs cleaned up 400,000 contributions and questioned those pensions, and if they hadn't, we could have increased them by 15%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37408	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37409	Thank you. We suggest that article 5 be deleted. We believe that this article reiterates the need for a proposal, which goes as if to protect the very suspicious investment of business partners of people close to the SNS summits or individuals close to the SNS, such as "Bood on Water", such as others. However, there is an interesting sentence here, where it is said – the investor enjoys full legal certainty. Now we are honored here that we would like to introduce some uncertainty, it seems to me that on several occasions the Prime Minister has even attacked us that we have driven away some of the investors he has announced. Well, of course, like all his imaginary investors, he never showed up in Serbia. Of course it's DS's fault. However, I have to ask Mr. Minister, imagine what kind of legal certainty an investor has in a country where every other day it turns out that some official document was issued by state authorities forgeries? Imagine what an investor might think when a little or little government claims that some document issued by the competent authorities is falsified. What kind of message are we sending these investors? What do these people do if they sign tomorrow with some minister, with the mayor of Belgrade, some kind of contract is certified, seduced everywhere and Alexander Vukic comes out tomorrow and says the signature of that minister or mayor of Belgrade is falsified? What kind of legal certainty is this to investors? What exactly is this about? Does this member have any other purpose, other than to allow your business partners to do whatever they want in Serbia, and to be financed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as so far, because your investments are only paid by citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37410	The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37411	What message is being sent to citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina? What message is being sent to families and parents of children distracted by development when Bojan Pajtic closes a contract with a favorite firm in democratic frameworks, called "Gardi", to build Hetherland, to build a home for children distracted by development? Finally, in addition to millions of euros spent, look at what a home for carefree children directed by DS and Bojan Pajtic looks like. National MP Zoran Babic shows the photograph. () For them, no signature is sacred, not sacred, nor children distracted in development. Well, even from them, Bojan Pajtic and DS kidnaps and takes. Why didn't he come to the polygraph? He didn't come to the polygraph because he thought he'd ask him about the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, the Vojvodina Development Bank, where the money was directed for children distracted in development, where and in whose pockets he ended that money. That's why he couldn't show up on a polygraph. That's why he refused the polygraph. I am now calling on the competent state authorities not to investigate where this money went, but to get that money out of Bojan Pajtic's pocket and his oligarchy and his clicks in Vojvodina, to build a home for children distracted in development, but also everything Bojan Pajtic promised and kidnapped for himself and for his click.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37412	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Besarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37413	We have submitted an amendment to item 2. However, since the agreement to delete attitude 2 has been reached in the meantime, we are quite satisfied with such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37414	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37415	Thank you. Thus, Article 5 states: “The investor enjoys full legal certainty and legal protection in respect of the rights acquired by investment, which is totally fine. ” The following position states: "If the investor has acquired his right by means of a freight contract from the transferor whose right is established by a judicial administrative act, and subsequently that act is abolished by an emergency remedy, the right of a security investor cannot be withdrawn or restricted". We added that this position reads: “If the investor has acquired his right by means of a freight contract from the transporter whose right is established by a judicial decision or by a judicial administrative act, and subsequently by means of an emergency remedy, the right of a secure investor cannot be withdrawn or restricted.” We think our formulation is more complete and better protected by the investor than your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37416	Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoje Bradić. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37417	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't see a reason, but no reason to accept norms like this proposed Article 6 and for that reason we suggested that this article be deleted from your bill. So, the law where you're just protecting the investor is a bad law. You protect in such a way that tomorrow when Alabar leaves the "Belabar on Water", he will charge the Republic of Serbia everything he has imagined to earn in the capital. That's what you know. The contract itself speaks of it, and you especially protect new members of the law. So, the situation where you give someone the land of 700 million, someone says billions of euros, we'll never find out, sometimes 74 half a billion euros worth, but when you give someone that land, without a single dinar of compensation, plus equipment, bring in that land for the purpose, clean up, 130m euros take credit under an unknown interest rate, move the rail corridors, move the station "Lastin", bus, train, finish the team, and build the bridge over Vinca, because that corridor has to extend somewhere, it's a few billion euros, and even if it just happens to leave Serbia, then you have to pay him and what he came here for, and he came here to make money. So in a situation where you are in this way protecting someone who is only out of your well-known reason close to this government and this party who is in power, then you simply don't think about the interests of Serbian citizens and those who will somehow pay for it. Today, it's true, pensioners pay it. Tomorrow someone else will pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37418	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37419	I think you've mixed up the pots, because you've completely taken two different things into your consideration of this member. This is one of the basic members we guarantee that any investor who comes to Serbia can feel both protected and secure and based, but literally based, on the practice of the world's best laws, such as Singapore and Ireland. The other thing is, this law has no retroactive fact whatsoever. Well, I don't understand at all how you think that "Belgrade on Water", or anything that has been passed in the previous period, or concluded contracts, or through congregation discussions, or congregation adoption of a law, can have an impact? This is what this member is talking about – it is not the same if in the public interest you are expropriating a specific building for an apartment or someone else, which has no value, as it has an object in which production or business is located. So, I had a chance today to read again in a newspaper about how this member is being criticised and said the government is trying to take someone's business away. On the contrary, we are protecting business and we say – in the value of expropriation we open up the possibility of taking the value if business is diminished by someone, because the government has made it, or in the regular procedure of expropriation, the decision that a particular facility must be moved. Normally, it all implies that if this facility is legal, business is legal, if obligations are paid and all other things are related to normal business. So, this member is exactly the opposite of protecting the investor that in the event he builds a factory somewhere, hires 500 people and at a certain point the state declares out of public interest that this facility must be expunged, that not only is the value of the building, the window, the door and everything else that is related to it, but also the value of the business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37420	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37421	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course we can't accept the amendment of the party that filed it, for the very simple reason that we heard in the very explanation of this amendment a light of falsehood, first of all. You can't say that someone donated land for the "Belgrade on Water" project, when that's not true. We've seen that you never should have told the truth, and that says the fact that you're afraid of it is a lie detector, for example. I'll be back on the subject. We leased land when we talk about "Belgrade on Water", and that's just a piece of the land on which something is being built. The obligation of whoever obtained that land in the lease, and not given it, is defined by a 99-year contract, is that of each apartment sold any real estate, whether it is a sports centre, a commercial centre, anything sold and that some money is earned, 32% of the profits go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's a healthy investment where you didn't give anyone anything, and if someone does that project, we'll make a living. If that someone doesn't do anything, we don't have any obligation to that company, to that company, no matter where it comes from. Today from the United Arab Emirates, tomorrow we want it to come from China, the day after tomorrow from Germany, Sweden, wherever it comes from. You can't see where the capital comes from, if it'll be better for our economy. You say you took out a loan to move out the railway infrastructure. Gentlemen, the Prokop project has been mentioned for decades, but unfortunately you have slept through one and a half decades, since 1996 in Belgrade, and have done nothing to bring the project to life. So, what's your password - let's not do anything, let's not move the train station or the bus station, let's not build "Belgrade on water", and I'll remind Mr. Chairman, the minister remembers that, which is that the party that proposed this amendment offered Manhattan on water, or Manhattan in Belgrade. I showed these images on RTS, which are almost similar to "Belgrade on Water", towers, buildings, business space, sports content and everything else. However, it only benefited from the election campaign. We haven't seen anything since Manhattan, we've seen an abandoned breach, a destroyed one potential surface in our country that you didn't know how to use. So, if we re-expose the party's representative who spoke before Minister Sertic, the former regime's representative, that's -- we're not going to move the railway infrastructure, what are we going to do, why move the bus station, we're glad to have a traffic jam in downtown Belgrade, why do we do this, develop Belgrade and build Belgrade, wait for why we should do this when it's easier to take on public enterprises and set up tenders and that party officials of that party enjoy and raise their wealth. If we listen to statements from the former regime's representatives over the past three months, we have not received a single proposal on how to do and improve, but all projects that are good for Serbia, which, if nothing else, are not bad for Serbia and will do no harm to anyone. They only know how to obstruct and say: It is better not to do anything, so as much as we are in power, let us fight for our land. Since we are not acting this way and we do not accept such a policy, the "Belgrade on Water" Project, as you can see, has begun to work and to realize, although you have had a lot of mistrust in this project, and I hope that you will be invited neatly when this project is completed at the opening. So don't ever say anything wrong again, and for 70 years that move of our country's pieces is messy, you haven't even noticed it. You ignored the Sava amphitheater. You haven't noticed anything in that location that can be used for our people, and now all of a sudden you're showing some fear. We know what DS policy is, and that's -- don't do anything, why do it, because you have to work a little hard when you're doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37422	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakic, Miroslav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37423	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for accepting this amendment to Minister Sertic, because this amendment will contribute to making this law a kind of contribution to the rule of law. It is in line with the Expropriation Act, so that we can realize that and how it has been taken into account the harmonisation of legislation, that is, this law with other laws, so that the investment environment is better and better quality. Of course, as you said earlier, it contributes to the fact that in the case of strategic interest, in the case of expropriation, it is not only about the cost of real estate, but it is precisely about business, and this proves that the work on this bill has led to the fact that businessmen, that investors are in no way damaged and that their business is not reduced or undervalued in any way. Thanks for that. I believe that this amendment will complete and in some ways help to ensure that the law is implemented and implemented in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37424	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 6th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go. (Branka Karavidić, from place: You skipped the amendment to Article 6.) I read the amendment to article 6, looked at the screen, waited a few seconds and you were late. If you mean the amendment submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. (Branka Karavidić, from the place: No, you skipped our amendment. I don't have your amendment on the list. Mr. Veselinović, you asked for a word, just please repeat your request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37425	I hope this issue with the previous amendment is resolved. This amendment I submitted on behalf of the Turnover Movement is also related to the possibility of alienation of agricultural land. The turning point is to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. I've explained it in more detail before. I respect the fact that some MPs say that in the meantime, the SSP adopted, it has legal power. However, our legislation did not end with the SAA, because in the meantime some things happened that did not exist at the time of the adoption of the SAA. Namely, the current assessment was that Serbia's EU accession would be up to 2017/2018. A year. In that light, in those frames, this SSP was brought in, voted. However, as we know, without elaborated on whose merit it is that we are not yet a member of the EU, so I don't want to accuse anyone, we have new circumstances. So we have the opportunity to delay application through a change of laws and we have the opportunity to influence the ban on agricultural land sales, i.e. to leave the possibility of a permanent lease instead of selling agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37426	Time, my colleague Veselinovic. Thank you. First, let's just clear this up about the amendment to Article 6, which they submitted in the same text as two groups of MPs. A colleague of Bečić led the session at the time and read the next amendment – to Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vucković and together the MPs Marko Đurić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradić. That's how it was read. Does anyone else want a word on the amendment submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37427	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying: "Knowledge has limits, there's no ignorance," but when we consider that the promoter is an amendment doctor of legal science, then you have to listen carefully to me to read what is proposed. The text of the law states in Article 7(3), which he has proposed to change and I ask the minister to listen carefully. So, he says, a foreign investor can acquire the right of property, service, stock and other real rights in moving things and real estates located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. He proposes to place a point and say: "except for agricultural land if it is a foreign investor". Now pay attention to the sentence, he says, “in accordance with the law, and other than agricultural land if it is a foreign investor, ” which means that agricultural land can be alienated and not be in accordance with the law, in the way the law doctor suggested. Speaking of agricultural land, I must say again that the SAA, which was signed in this way in 2008, which was ratified here, has not been signed by any country, and has signed a party of the former regime to which it belonged. In 2017, thanks only to the ratification of Lithuania, it is the year in which the right of foreigners to buy land, but until then I believe that we will regulate a special law to do so in the way that it suits us, in the minimum areas or with the rights that are difficult to achieve, but it is almost amazing that someone will turn around so much, to establish an association of "he, women and swastika" and to reverse and that what was in force in 2008, which is an international contract. Non-sale land, hundreds of thousands of hectares, is sold cooperative agricultural land, which was bought by the cooperative from 62 to 68, 198,000 ha as a subject of social property privatisation. Now someone who has allowed such a wild, predatory privatisation proposes to delete what they have signed by international contract. For me, this is unacceptable to the team before it is proposed that agricultural land be obtained without having to comply with the law, because if you read the amendment carefully, this means that after the word "in accordance with the law" it is added "except when it comes to agricultural land". So you can do it without the law. I believe it's an inherited feature of a party of the former regime and association that turned and alienated from that party of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37428	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37429	Dear Vice President Arsic, of course I suggest that the amendment not be accepted for four reasons. First, because the amendment is unclear, because as you can see it is written under the amendment's proposal – an independent MP. He constantly convinces us here that he is a member of the Movement for PRECRET or what the Croats would say about the craftsmanship. Furthermore, I find the amendment pointless. Third, illogical. And fourth, superfluous. Why should I throw it away? It is precisely because the Law on Agricultural Land prescribed that the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. We said that a few times today. However, Article 7 of this Investment Law is clear in this respect and unequivocal, which says – foreign investors enjoy the same position in terms of their investments, have the same rights and obligations as domestic investors if this or other law is not different. We're amazed, Mr. Chairman, that the amendment promoter doesn't know this, yet he's a doctor of legal science, handing over law to our students. However, if the students of legal science proposed such an amendment, I doubt that they would pass the exam in legal cases, which means they did not read the basic literature. How much of the amendment's proposal will be given to us, Mr. Chairman, in the voting day, and I believe the people in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37430	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37431	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected citizens, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which says – the foreign investor has the right to, in accordance with the law, after paying all the tax and other liabilities on the basis of public income, freely transfer financial and other assets related to the investment, such as, so now, income, assets belonging to him after the company has been shut down, the amount obtained from the sale of shares or shares, the amount obtained on the basis of a reduction in the underlying capital, the amount obtained from additional payments and under 6 – the fee from the expropriation, i.e. from another measure with a similar fact. We have suggested that this second part of the sentence, i.e. other measures with a similar fact, be deleted and explained because we consider that the fee from the expropriation represents the essential price for the sale of real estate established under market conditions when the property's right to immobility is passed with the compensation in the possession of the State for the achievement of the general interest. In addition to this case, which has established basic restrictions in the use of property rights by the legal system of the Republic of Serbia does not know by us other measures with similar facts. Given the reasons we have submitted this amendment, I ask you to explain to us what other measures are similar to those that can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37432	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable guest of the Ministry, this amendment to Article 9 submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party is one of the few amendments regarding language corrections. Mr. Sertić, you have not accepted the amendment, and we believe that in four rows, the contents of this article are stored in four rows, there is no sign of any interpretation other than the point at the end. It is impossible, gentlemen, that a complex sentence can look like that. We only propose to respect the grammar and spelling of the Serbian language and to stand in the right place behind the word "in the domestic foreign exchange market", Mr Sertic, as necessary if we want to respect the rules of the Serbian language. So this is not an amendment regarding the guidance on our main objections, the rule of law, its disrespect, the stimulation of corruption, etc. - Change tab. Is there any way we can agree here, honored gentlemen, at least around the language that there is no dispute and that whatever you think about it we respect spelling and respect the grammar of the Serbian language? I can't see, Mr. Sertice, no argument in your argument. You say the amendment is not accepted because this formulation has already been determined, and it is not, Mr. Sertic. It has not been determined, and here it is necessary, as respected gentlemen are necessary, and the insertion of two commas in Article 3 which we have also responded to before. These are two commas, Mr Sertic, which concern that Article 14 already exists, and Article 3 does not exist. I think this is necessary to accept without fear, Mr Sertic, although it will mark both the growth and ratings of the New Party and the electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37434	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37435	Of course, I'm joining, and I don't think it's even unserious to write the amendment just because of the comma or the comma, how glad it is. To repeat this, it is constitutional, legally possible, which is the report of the committee in charge, it is all going towards the precision of the law. I think the law in Serbia and anywhere in the world, and in our experience, especially in Serbia, is very important for the laws to be precise. Interpence signs are very important. In Article 3 we talked about, it's not two commas but two brackets, it's absolutely different to interpret that sentence without those characters, and I expect the minister to accept it, and I think that the same thing in this article is something that is, of course, the first respect for the spelling rules, and the second one gives extra precision. So I don't think there should be any doubt about it, and, of course, in later amendments, we're going to be dealing with the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37436	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37437	There is no dispute over every part of the law or every attitude should be best written. My only question is whether you can accept this through the legal-technical order as a solution, since the government has already rejected it and the board, but I essentially agree with your remark that it should be clearly and accurately written. So I suggest we just accept it this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37438	You have another minute of work for Zivkovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37439	Of course, you can as a member of the government that defends this law in parliament to accept now, no matter what the government refuses, and that is one variant. I think that would be a pure variant, because now you've said yourself that you accept the argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37440	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37441	Then we accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37442	Dear fellow Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we inform that today they will work after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We continue to work on the amendments. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakić, Milisav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of Chapter 3, the title of the 11th and 11th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovanovic Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37443	Thank you and I'll use these five minutes that I'm entitled to. Thank you Minister for accepting, I understood the amendments both, three and seven, and that's good, and that's how we defended the Serbian language. Of course, that wasn't the intention to make that mistake, but it's good for her to fix it. I think that's quite clear. We ask that this third amendment to the law, to Article 11, be deleted. And we consider that a member of the fundamental problem of this law. What's the fundamental problem? The arbitration of a new institution, or a working body, is not even an institution that should assess which investment is of great importance, which investment is of local importance, which investment is of primary importance without any established procedure and system and standards as to how it is determined, without any explanation why an investment which would, for example, open five new jobs in Svilinc would be less important than an investment that would create 150 jobs in Novi Sad. You said in the principle debate that there is an important sustainability of investment, how long will it last, what is this capital invested in the economy? You can't possibly consider that an immutable category. Is something going to last a year, five years or a thousand years, in the economy, we both know, depends on a lot of factors. And no legal protection, no protection of investments on any side, and not even on the side of the state can prevent the failure of any company. You can make up a dead man's makeup, you can keep something that we already have, of course, like a '90s stack that sold out in 2000. Many companies, which in the last 15 years have held various authorities on the infusion, with no basis whatsoever, without any future of these same companies. It's also important for new investments. Who's investing? He's not investing in the country. It invests some company, domestic, foreign, private entrepreneur, a large company of a large name, a secret company, a company that launders someone's money, a company that seriously moves some civilization values, all of these are possible investors, but there is neither in economic science nor in economic practice, any way to keep you safe, to ensure the safety of any investment. And there's no doubt about it. There is no economic theory that claims it, there is no country in the world where there is free market, rule of law and competition where anyone can guarantee anything. That we're not just talking about our examples. There's a lot of examples. For example, we all remember 20 years ago, 30 years ago, there was no American movie where Pan American didn't fly. Where is this company? It was like something that was invariable, which is General Electric or Simmons or somewhere else, and it changed. They changed, many manufacturers of white technology, electronics, others came forward, and that's the nature of the market, and there's no way to change that. Then why pass a law that explains it's being passed to stimulate and maintain investment when it's impossible. In that law, let me say something now that I don't mean honestly. Even if I didn't doubt that they were good intentions, someone who knows the economy and practically and you are, it was clear to him that such a law, that such solutions do not maintain the security and security of investment, under b) create corruption. Every arbitrarity whoever is conducting it enables corruption and there is clear as day and it's everywhere in the world like that. Is it in Serbia, is it in the United States, is it in Russia, in the Vatican or in the Patriarchy, anyway? Therefore, such a law does not solve a big problem, which is the uncertainty of investment, but the father god has not solved it, nor a much more developed country, it simply cannot be solved, nor will we offer it as a solution, we all know it is unsustainable, and it is highly potentially corrupt, and it can attract foreign investment. So, I think it's a good idea for you to withdraw this law, not to get the fate of some other law, which one didn't want the president to sign. Others are inconclusive or poorly enforceable. We have a big story about building permits, that the new law that defines it, that it will advance us, that it will be phenomenal. We're on the world list, the Duj business from the bad 183rd place fell to 186th place by the speed of issuing building permits. There are only countries behind us where nothing is built, where houses are just like that "Three Pigs" fairy tale where there are no grounds for anyone to get permission. Therefore, don't get into such a mistake and it wouldn't be good for you or the Serbian government, which I don't care less, of course, but it's not good for Serbia. Serbia has already been compromised many times in front of investors both domestic and foreign, and of course these sides are more important, because they also bring capital, bring technology, but also bring the market for what they should produce here. So let the economy do its job right, and don't let, otherwise, a bad picture of Serbia, as a state without the rule of law and with a lot of corruption, spoil such a law. You may not be able to do corruption, but can you swear that there are no people who can't wait for one of these laws around you or in the government or in the political heavens of Serbia or anywhere?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37444	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37445	Thank you for all the warnings you've given, and I support a good part of your exposure, especially when we talk about the sustainability of investment, the sustainability of business, and that no one can guarantee that his business will succeed. It is essential for us to encourage more investors in Serbia, it is essential that we include our people, especially young people, in as many economic processes in which they will have their own companies and participate in Serbia's economic life. The creation of a favourable business environment is a broad and large process and we talked about it the last time and there is often talk about it in public and certainly that this law cannot in itself bring the only solution, because then everyone would do it and there would simply be no competition in the world, nor among the states. We are taking a serious step and we are jumping out, first of all in the region, because if someone who is measured to give a good assessment of it and whose opinion is respected in the world, first of all by investment, says that the law is closest to the world's best practice, it is something that I will be proud of as a minister, I'm sure, all the members of the government, and also certain all the MPs here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37446	National MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37447	These general places, such as serious foreign investors, such as our young people, such as the best economies in the world, are very good for one pre-election story, and perhaps for some chatping people who love this sphere of life called the economy, but they mean nothing and as such cannot be part of the law. What are the best economies in the world? Do these laws have U.S.A.? Does this law have China, which is a developing star? No, China certainly doesn't have a law like this. And stay away from the stories of the World Bank and the IMF rapper being the highest in the world, sharing evil and good, angels and devils. And with the World Bank, as you know, the International Monetary Fund is being negotiated. They're not class elders. It's not the capillaries who make sense. Anyway, they're being negotiated. And not one country should put itself in the position of a younger partner or someone who needs to learn something. I'm sure there are also here in the government, in that part of the stadium, and in the country enough people who can understand what ideas are, what's good for Serbia, what can be fixed, what can't. None of them gave you any support for this. No association of serious economists, foreign investors' advisers, not to speak and not to repeat myself, all those state institutions and independent institutions that were violated at the beginning of today's session. So he can do better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37448	Time, fellow Zivkovic. Thank you. The right to replica has Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37449	First, I think we have something to learn and that we can learn a lot from the developed world, because the countries that have made good and quality laws have managed to attract a large number of investments and directly feel their citizens. I promised you last time I'd give you this book based on whose experiences we've been doing, and I'll do it today when we've finished our debate today. Otherwise, Article 11, you have given the amendment to Article 11, and you are talking about the general views of the law itself, Article 11, defines local investments and of particular importance, so that it is one of our tools to help investors be more efficient, how to regulate it with local self-government, what obligations they give them, and certainly through the following members all this much more detailed explanation. What I certainly can't agree with you and I don't think it's correct to say, is that in this law and writing this law, our home institutions did not participate. So, from the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Foreign Investors Council, the American Chamber of Commerce, the German Association of Businessmen, the Council of Foreign Investors, NAED, there is almost no organisation that has its own word and voice influencing us in public, which brings together businessmen, local self-government and any other kind of economic activity, and that it has not participated in it and that, in the end, I said, after almost a year of discussion, the alignment and coordination of this law, I said that this text was the last, with amendments, rights and the best thing for our country. In that sense, I will repeat - I am sure that you too will be proud of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37450	Comrade Zivkovic, you really don't have a basis for replication right now. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) The minister explained before you how the law was written. What's the basis for the replica? You have no right to a replica. The word has a People's MP, an amendment holder, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice-President Mr Arsic, Honorable Minister Sertic and distinguished guest from the ministry, it is good, Minister Sertic, which is agreed here to respect the rules of the Serbian language and there is no dilemma. But I have two notes regarding our amendment to Article 11. First, I believe that an objective observer of this dialogue sees that the argument over our amendment is on the side of Mr. Zivkovic's MP. And I'm adding another argument to that and otherwise a strong argument, Mr. Sertic. The argument concerns the position of the 3rd member which introduces the possibility of granting state aid without a public call. We have also written in reason, Mr Sertić – every assignment, respected gentlemen, state aid, in any law provided for, must go through a public call, for reasons of equal availability of state aid to all economic operators. I remind the MPs here, as well as Mr Sertic, that it is a matter of state aid, a matter of rules and competition rights, one of the most important parts of the EU legal fluids we wish to join, gentlemen. And I think, when we come across a question of state aid, then with special attention, with special sensitivity, we have to edit this area. Plus, Mr. Sertic has now called the World Bank. So how, Mr. Sertić, do you explain that you are getting commendations from the World Bank, and on the "duing business list", which also concerns the World Bank's assessment, it was announced in 2015 that we moved in the general race for a year from 77th place, Minister Sertic, to 91st place? With praise, we're going back. How do you explain that, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37452	Time, fellow Pavicevic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37453	Article 11(3) reads: "In order to invest of particular importance, the proposal for State aid shall be adopted without publication of a public call". So, the proposal for an assignment. The award shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on State aid and control. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: No public call. (Laughter) Absolutely. The moment this law is passed, if you adopt it today or tomorrow, I don't know when voting day, on the eighth day, when it becomes full, from that moment on, the public call is open all the time. So, there is no need for us to specifically publish – come to Serbia and invest, or - domestic businessmen, please come in. That's the sole purpose of this. I repeat again - it says here: "proposal of a state aid" rather than "a grant of state aid" These are two different aspects. As for the place on the dumming list, we'll wait a few more days, and you'll see where we'll be compared to your ninety and someone you published.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37454	My colleague Pavicevic, on what basis? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: On the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Want to read that article? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. You are Mr. Arsic's most flexible chairman. All right. If, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended by his or her name or function, or misreads his or her presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. You, Mr. Pavicevic, through your submission of the amendment to article 11, have referred certain questions to the minister, he has answered you, and here he is... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Minister asked me. ) And the Minister is also subject to these provisions, so I don't see any reason, you've got an answer to your questions. According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37455	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the World Bank? What's the IMF? What are these world organizations you've listed, proposed by such economic gromads when they propose an amendment to such an economic experience, how can someone compare it with the World Bank, the IMF, etc., because they are known economists, well-known consultants? To the soul of some with high school, with famous results in the economy, with well-known results in investment. When they are against state aid, how can you not hear prayers from such economic grotesques? They're against state aid, but when it comes to them, they're not. In 2007, the mass was against state aid of 525 000 euros for the vineyard and another three million in 2010. As far as they're concerned, they're and they're both for state aid if she goes into their pockets. Therefore, this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37456	On what basis now, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: On the same basis. There's another circumstance. ) On the same basis, and on the other side. Here, right on the replica, MP Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President and chair of the session at this time, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertić and the Honorable guest of the Ministry, here, I would like to point out three things here in the replica, regarding our further debate on the amendment to Article 11, which was submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party. First of all, Mr. Sertic, I would imagine that in the National Assembly during the debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37458	You are right, counterpart Pavicevic, to present Mr. Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37459	I have just come to this, Mr. Arsic, that on behalf of the largest party in the National Assembly, your proposal is being defended by the MP, Mr. Ristivojevic. Mr. Sertich, if I were you, right to tell you, I wouldn't smile like you do, but I would seriously ask myself this question, imagine where we are, what is this about, gentlemen. The other thing, Mr. Sertić, when I refer to the criteria that you use, which is the World Bank's assessment, so I call on the fact that it's said in a report for 2015, that we moved from 77 to 91st place compared to 2014, you can't, Mr. Sertić, I think, if you're responsible for one man to say - let's wait for a new result. Let's first evaluate this announced result, because it's an assessment of the actions of some government in some period, and not, Mr Sertić, constantly moving into the futur -- we'll see, we'll expect, we'll expect, we'll be, etc. The third note, Mr. Arsic, in the last 20 seconds, Mr. Sertic says we will vote this law today and tomorrow. Well, and if it votes, Mr. Arsic, to be heard here, I believe the President of the Republic and this law will return to re-determination in the Assembly, so what are we going to do, gentlemen and Mr. Sertic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37460	Mr. Pavicevic, I've let you finish now and in part you've surprised me very unpleasantly in your presentation - ask yourself what kind of minister you are if you're being defended by an MP there. That's what you said. Everyone here heard that. I think that we respect all our colleagues here regardless of their interest, technical equipment and everything else, because they are legitimate representatives of Serbian citizens here. By the way, you haven't even guessed the last name of your colleagues. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37461	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when they talk about me badly, usually people say you're bad when you stop acting the way they do. If they were bad at talking about me, I'd be worried better than I am. When they talk bad about me, I'm not worried. So the replica of the gentleman who spoke before me doesn't concern me at all. Someone who hasn't sewn a story in his life about foreign investment and economics. I have the right to estimate that such a pledge is not very credible. I have the right to compare it with the World Bank, the IMF, etc. In the previous speech, I didn't talk about a speaker who took advantage of the right to reply, because I don't think he got state aid for his investment. I meant someone else. As he recognized himself, whether he decided to defend someone, whether he decided to be a spokesman, whether or not he decided to be a French pearl, so that he might foam this discussion a little bit, I can't get into it. But the fact, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that the state of Serbia is a great opportunity for everything in it that anyone can be prime minister, but just anyone to teach at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37462	The right to replicate the presentation of counterpart Pavicevic, Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37463	I want to thank Ambassador Risticevic first for supporting this law. I would like to thank each of you MPs who, two days ago, spoke positively in the plenary session about this law, to everyone present today, to everyone who will take part in today's debate. I thank all the opposition MPs who criticized the law, gave their proposals, adopted some suggestions, as you yourself have heard, and you know it. I thank all those who took part in it. I will not make any difference, to any one of the MPs, whether he has the right to speak his mind about it. So much for criticizing one MP to another. As for the World Bank, I said – wait, it will be very soon in the past year, because the reports are working, and you know, for the previous year. You'll see, you'll be very surprised by the result we're going to achieve, which is the result of all of us. I believe that you will be pleased with that, too, because this is something that will put Serbia in far more attractive countries when we talk about business and job creation and everything we did in the previous period, all the laws, including this. And the results of both this law and the laws we passed this year will only be seen in the Doing List next year. Your third remark, concerning the president of our country, I am sure that the President of the Republic will sign this law, because personally, as well as his cabinet is interested, as well as the President of our Government and all ministers, that we have a prosperous country, with a lot of work, with a lot of new jobs, where citizens will live safely and have jobs and their economic needs satisfied in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37464	The right to a replica, MP Vladimir Pavicevic, because counterpart Marijan Risticevic claimed to be better than him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, the distinguished Minister Sertic and the distinguished guest of the Ministry, are two notes now that I want to make known in this replica. First of all, I noticed one thing, so I wanted to say here, that out of the 136 MPs who have SNS here, that one MP was singled out as the party's chief ideologist and that it was Mr. Ristivojevic. I wanted to check with Mr. Sertic now, and for example. with Mr. Babic, is it true that Mr. Ristivojevic has become and has been declared the head ideologist of the SNS and that Mr. Vukic, who is Prime Minister, is now following this type of ideology. Let me point out to Mr. Arsic that Mr. Ristivojevic made one big mistake and I think here he made an insult to Mr. Vukic when he said that anyone could be Prime Minister. We can check the stenographic notes here. That's what's said here, Mr. Arsic. The other thing, to tell Mr Sertic in this replica, Mr Sertic, I did not simply call for the action of the President of the Republic in this sense, because here, Mr Sertić, we have one experience where, in similar circumstances, in relation to similar our objections, in one part of the identical ones, the President of the Republic used our argument of the New Party MPs to return to the assembly procedure to the MPs here a bill which we claimed to be unconstitutional, to cause terrible damage. That's why, next experience, I believe it can happen again here, and I suggest we stay out of that kind of risk and therefore withdraw this bill, Mr. Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37466	Comrade Rističević, you do not have the right to reply to the presentation of your godfather, Dr. Pavicevic, since Ristivojevic was one MP and is not present in the meeting. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: After the amendment I answered. ) Right to replica on behalf of the parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37467	Mr. Chairman, it is scandalous to say that every time we speak the name and last name of every MP, it is scandalous that after a year someone doesn't remember or wants to change the name of Mr. Risticevic, although he is one of the most active MPs. It is also scandalous that those who are building space for a congregation speaker on the basis of – are deleted, deleted, on the basis of a copy-paisy of amendments and defending amendments only as a mantra by repeating the rule of law. Now he's worshiping someone else who's more active, more concrete, more well-intentioned that he can't speak, and that's what he's an ideologist. SNS ideology is based on the progress of our society, on the better life of our citizens, on a more orderly society, on the construction of institutions, on our society within the European family and on this ideology and on this desire will be told by all 136 Members of the people. Mr. Marijan Rističević is one of those 136, a distinguished fellow MP. The fact that someone is trying to demean him is more about this rule of law where one MP is asked not to speak, so where is the rule of law? Look at yourself in the mirror when you're looking for things and when you expect things and when you want to put a patch over someone's mouth. Where is the rule of law? Shame on you never to use those words again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37468	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37469	It's SNS ideology, but it's also mutual respect that you'll never learn in vineyards and in chocolates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37470	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying that you can't make anyone respect you, but you can stand up to anyone who doesn't respect you. The fact that the proposings of this amendment don't respect me is commendation for me. I'd be worried if they showed original respect for me, because I think I'm worth more than my political opponents. Whatever the saying - you're worth your opponent, regardless of the saying, the one talking about, that a lion hunter shouldn't spend ammunition on rabbits, I'm still going to comment on the amendment of my esteemed colleagues and say that it's unacceptable for me to remove state aid from foreign investors when they already had the right to use this aid in 2007 and when those investments held water for three years. They took 55,000 euros from the state and three million dinars, after three years they sold the company they received from the state 525,000 euros, although they claimed at the time, and it has a newspaper cut, that they had found a job for life. This life and their work lasted for three years, after which the creditors remained unpaid, plots sold, companies sold, and now someone against state aid, I guess, because of their experience and wasted state aid. I'm not going to talk much about the amendments, I'd like to talk about what my credibility is to comment on amendments, not the law. We're commenting on the amendments today. I think that I am high enough to, as someone who, by the Rules of Procedure, has the right to propose amendments, have the right to comment on my amendments, to comment on the amendments of other promoters, and if someone is a democratically-oriented person, he should not have the right to challenge the right of another MP to comment on the amendments. Today we comment on the amendments. Try to offend me about foreign investment and the amendment is nothing. As someone who produced at least 50 tractors, alone, in IMT, when I divide the number of workers with the number of tractors, even administrative workers, in five years in IMT I made at least 50 tractors. I made as an investor in private agricultural land hundreds of thousands of tons of food. I've experienced here to try to be offended by those who haven't made a parrot's house and who teach at the Faculty of Political Sciences as a bar singer from the Ibaric Highway... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37472	We won't do that, colleague Risticevic. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37473	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, the Investment Law is a legislative framework defining the objectives of investment, defining the rights and obligations of investors, defining investment entities, types of investment and most importantly defining investment criteria. Based on these elements, in general, we can conclude that the Investment Law has satisfied the form and reference of transparency. However, the amendment's proposings, which require the removal of Article 11. The investment law considers that the introduction of a category, I quote, of particular importance is a dangerous precedent for the country's legal-economic order, which enables open favouring individual companies, domestic or foreign to others, which is essentially contrary to the principles of fair competition equal to those of law. The end of the quote. I agree he's a member of the 11th. The law on investment is dangerous for the country's legal and economic order, as are the amendments that require its erasure of the country's legal and economic order. I leave the amendments to the public to judge their danger, and it is my duty to comment on Article 11, whose erasure is required, not to mention that there are no SNS MPs who can comment on this law and that the SNS has agreed on Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic who comments on economic laws. You have offended all SNS MPs in this way, but we would like to tell you that this is because we estimate that Mr Risticevic is quite enough to prevent and defend such amendments as you are today. Article 11 defines, in fact, types of investment according to importance. Article 11 says investment by importance is an investment of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, and an investment of local importance. So, two types of investment are defined according to importance. It is further elaborated and defined that investment of particular importance is an investment whose opening would have a significant impact on the further development of Serbia's economy, improving the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia's economy, as investment sites and its even regional development. Investment of particular importance is investment realised in the territory of one or more local self-government units and promotes the realisation of joint development priorities of several local self-government units in the function of increasing their competitiveness levels, as well as investment based on adopted bilateral agreements and cross-border co-operation agreements. So this defines investment of particular importance and is said to be all those investments that raise the economic development of Serbia's state, which raise the competitiveness of Serbia's economy, which have a beneficial effect on equal, regional development and which are mainly realised in the territory of one municipality or more municipalities where the objectives of a local self-government, municipality and city or more local self-government are achieved, and may be a product and bilateral agreements of the two countries if it is estimated that, in cross-border co-operation, a particular business project has investments of particular importance. So much for the threat to the legal-economic order of the country of Article 11, whose erasure is required. It is further stated that favouring, quoting, individual companies, domestic or foreign companies, as opposed to others, is essentially contrary to the principles of fair competition equal to that of law. In the light of the fact that Article 12 contains investment criteria and under regular number three is the criterion of the impact of investment on the external trade balance, which will have a crucial impact on the acquisition of state aid, which will certainly give priority to the grant of aid to companies that are export-oriented. Therefore, this practice has already confirmed that the advantage of granting State aid will be given to export-oriented enterprises. Therefore, anything produced by the exporting country, and as such cannot be threatened by companies that are not State aid users. In the second part of the argument, as the most difficult charge, it is said that the particular danger from this article of the bill comes from Article 3 which introduces the possibility of granting state aid without a public call. If we bear in mind that state aid in investment cannot have more than 50% of the total investment, i.e. if the investor invests 20m euros in its economic capacity, the maximum state aid can be 50% of that aid, i.e. it can be 10m euros. As for any government aid dinar that the investor receives, he must lay down appropriate guarantees. Whether these guarantees will be in the form of a bank guarantee, in the form of equipment or in the form of buildings, each dinar must be provided. And if we go back to the previous provision that requires and, in some way, favours producers who will have an export character, that is, everything they produce and export from Serbia, then we come to the conclusion that the state in the perspective will have more resources to offer to the investor, but an insufficient number of investors who can and can withdraw these funds, which was the case before, and we have witnessed such cases in the last case in Vladic's Han, when we held negotiations with a single company, I would not mention that name. Thank God we successfully completed the negotiations on the company Tekles, with the support of course, the prime minister and minister who made a significant contribution to the launch of a company that should be in the devasted municipality, in the municipality of Vladicin Han, to live from the new year and employ at least 400 people. Therefore, there is no point in Article 11. The law on investment is dangerous in the legal-economic order of the Serbian state, as well as that there is no danger from the amendment promoters proposing to delete this member of the law. Therefore, the SNS and its MPs, in the voting day, will resolutely reject the amendment requiring the removal of Article 11. Investment law, and give full support to Article 11 and the Investment Act, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37474	Eight minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 11 regulates the type of investment according to the importance and suggests that by normising the types of investment according to importance, it has not normed investment of importance for the AP Vojvodina, although in certain further provisions of the Bills, this concept exists. We believe that investment of the province importance, that it should represent a special type of investment from the point of view of the importance of investment. In addition to investments of particular importance and investments of local importance, and in this respect, we intervene with the amendment on item 1 and item 4 with the addition of a new position 3. We are also predicting erasure of the existing attitude 3 and we have extremely important reasons why we propose it. So, the provision as the bill promoter has reviewed, the exception to the rule that a public call is made public to encourage investment through the granting of state aid is determined. We believe that the introduction of such an exception reduces the transparency of the granting of state aid and, as such, this exception is very dangerous and opens up the possibility of abuse and corruption. Otherwise, the Anti-Corruption Agency also noted in its opinion the corrupt risk of this norm and suggested eradicating it from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37476	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together and MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37477	I thank the chairman. We have suggested, Mr Sertic, that article 11 be deleted for a simple reason to reduce potential corruption when it comes to the bill itself. Here, now I'll explain why. So, as it stands in the law, it is completely excluded by the Constitution, under number one, guaranteed the right of availability and access to all businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Under number two, an equal right is abolished and any competition is suspended when it comes to the market and the competition. Under number three, the government has the exclusive right, discretionary right, to determine what investment is of particular importance, and in that case when the government says it is of particular importance, then no public call is made. And then tell me, because I'm sure that you, as a man who's out of business, can tell me in case of investments that have been current in the Republic of Serbia, such as "Beograda na Voda", when we've adopted a "lex specialis" here and you've told us together with the prime minister of Serbia, you've been present, that it's an investment of special importance and that's why we're breaking the Constitution, because, well, if someone else has three and a half billion, then we'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37478	Excuse me, colleague Balsha, on what grounds do you claim to violate the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37479	By what...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37480	Let me remind you, before you go any further, I'll give you your time back. Each legislative proposal shall be declared by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. And if you think you're above that board...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37481	May I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37483	And when it came to reducing pensions, you also said that it was under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but what the members of the SNS said did not necessarily mean that it was true. On the contrary. What I wanted to say was that in Article 11. The government of the Republic of Serbia gives too much authority beyond the Parliament to set criteria for what is public interest and what is of special importance or not. And that's what we told you a few days ago. In this and such situation, Mr. Sertic, you have your colleagues, your friends who open companies on the Virgin Islands. And there is no investment in Serbia. In the light of the law, you haven't even dealt with the effects of adopting such a law. How many hundred thousand jobs will it open when you adopt this law of yours? And thank you for thanking the opposition, too, because we think that the only opposition in this case has given constructive solutions. We wanted to bring this problem to the public and help you in some way not make as many mistakes as the Government has made in the last four years. There are no investments, but in the Virgin Islands, of short companies that are generators of corruption and money vacuuming citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37484	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37485	When we talk about the Virgin Islands, I think that a lecture on those of the Shore companies and wineries from the Virgin Islands in front of the Vinemont Company, and a colleague who spoke to me and all of you earlier, could talk to that present colleague. So, not only about the short companies and all that, it's a simple way of managing, and I understand more that you speak, but not in the National Assembly, but in the morning when you maintain personal hygiene, in front of a mirror, when you shave. It is strange when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sets out tones that are dissonant of the country's judicial system. It is strange when a mediocre lawyer is placed above the Constitutional Court of Serbia. When I say mediocre lawyer, I mean by years of studying, but also by average. I guess that's enough rappers to make someone mediocre, maybe even below mediocre. But to speak to a mediocre lawyer, he derrogates and humiliates the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is a scandal. On the other hand, when it comes to the lack of investment, such words when they come from a fellow who spoke earlier, are simply an earlobe, because it is a recognition of the link and the link between the former regime and Miroslav Miskovic, because they see it as their investment selling Miskovic's share of capital "Deleza". There is a bond between Miskovic and the former regime. Well, I don't have to talk about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37486	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37487	... That's what he's telling the truth about. As long as you're holding up his assets and his investments, that relationship is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37488	Thank you, colleague Granny. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37489	Thank you. Article 11 of the Bill's proposal on investments divided according to importance into investments of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia and investments of local importance should be deleted and we all know that. When we say that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, we also spoke of the law introduced by the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government. Afterwards, the Constitutional Court put a temporary suspension on a member we claimed to be unconstitutional. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: So, a little good, not a bit.) I would ask MP Zoran Babic not to throw away and not to gesture rudely as I address citizens and MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37490	Col. Comić, you can't ask your colleague Babic to stop throwing away, but the chairman. So I ask you to move on, and the chairman, if he finds it necessary, will warn the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37491	Thank you, Chairman. Whenever you do not find it necessary, then I must, because I want to give the citizens of Serbia information on the reasons why this member of the law should be deleted. I would also ask MP Vucet Toskovic not to throw it away, as the chairman did not find it appropriate. If there's a throw, then there's a throw. We're very talented here. If there isn't, then there isn't. Thank you, Chairman. It's not easy for you, I know that, but what to do. Why does this member need to be deleted? Because it implies discretionary rights to determine what investments are of particular importance, and what investments are of local importance and because here whenever people want to talk about foreign investment or domestic investment, and whenever they talk about foreign direct investment abbreviations, no one will talk about that there are no FDIs that do not participate in budgets. There's no one in any country. Money is no longer easy to earn, and it is clear to me why economic and financial power has found a way to call investment co-operation with national budgets, where all the national budgets of all our money give part of the investment. That should be the subject, and I'm, if I'm sure of what I'm sure, sure the minister knows that very well, much better than I do. What is the problem then if I want a dialogue on what investment really is and how does an investor make a deal with any budget to help it, again on the old Serbian distortion of insertism, or like this with the incentives that we have tied up with this state aid law? It's a bad solution, a very bad solution. Especially such a member of the law, who a little bit follows the economic and financial power and economic and financial regulations across Europe, I'm talking to this piece, and the United States knows how to read this law. Discretional right with reasonable doubt about the private choice of the investor. I have no doubt that a minister or any member of the government is ready to give up his integrity, his reputation and his knowledge and commits a crime, but this should not be in the Investment Act. It doesn't have to stand. If he stays, this member will be dealt with by some Constitutional Court anyway. It's not my pleasure to see the Constitutional Court's decisions that we were right, as I'm not happy about or that a suspended member of the law that forced women at 60 and six months of retirement. This is a common bad picture of Serbia, a common indicator that we do not have talks essentially on the direction of economic policy, and that we have laws that the writers are little aware of, which are not in public debate and which have counterargumentation on these members – all of this will be great. It is not the law for the minister to promise an honorable word that everything will be great, but to make it perfectly clear what the members of the law and who are given what rights and obligations. It's good for this government not to have this member in law. If someone tells you who doesn't support the Government, then we should seriously consider whether the Law on Investments from the beginning, how it entered into a public debate, the media, with disputes with the Constitution, whether it should be kept in the procedure in the Assembly and whether it is necessary to stubbornly insist on provisions that will cause obvious damage, and the damage is common. Our effort is to be mutually beneficial, not shared harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37492	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37493	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1). I think you had to interrupt Mrs. Comic and warn her at the time she told me I was being rudely gestured. What was I rudely gesticulating with? Did I say – cattle one, as Mr. Zivkovic said? Did I say, you bastard, like Mr. Sutanovac said? She didn't object to rude gestures at the time. Did I perhaps sit on the cathedral, as Mr Pavicevic did at lectures at the Faculty of Political Sciences? What did I do to be rude, except speak and represent what I think? Now, that's rude for Mrs. Comic. Here, there's a better resolution to better see who's sitting on the cathedral. National MP Zoran Babic shows the photograph. ( ) Is this the rule of law and is this the behavior that we should all sit down on congregation benches now, perhaps? What didn't Mrs. Comic like before? Is it because I said we can't act and comment on the court's decisions because the court is an independent branch of power? Now, when the Constitutional Court rules as they please, then it's great, then it's used as an argument. When it is judged as it does not correspond to them, whatever judgment it is, they are ignorant, they know nothing. Make your own arrangements once, whatever you want, whatever you want, who's independent, who's who, who can't do what, who can't do what. We just saw that Mr. Risticevic is not allowed to speak. Now I can't speak for Mrs. Comic. It's neither the first time nor the last time you'd want to or how you've kicked us out of this National Assembly room, but that time has passed. The arson, the kidnapping, the beating, the stones on the press, the beating of political insinuators, the haircut of their children, that time had passed. That's all you can hope for and just fantasize about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37494	The word is made by the People's Messenger Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37495	Thank you. I am advocating Article 27 which obliges you to apply the Rules of Procedure during the debate and Article 103 which obliges you to act when a MP asks you to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have violated both members by giving them the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is justified by the rules laid down in Article 103. Even one of the views of that member, I think attitude 4, obliges you to make a clear statement to the MP who violates such rules, except that, in accordance with Article 27, I know without any doubt that you distinguish between what a replica is and what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is and that this article has been violated, because you have allowed the MP to use his own style to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure by being a straight replica. I don't mind that anyone, discreetly yours, I will defend you whoever resents you from giving up the replica, whether it's opposition or from the ruling majority, because the chairman decides whether or not the replicas will be. So it's your right and you can always give everyone a replica to try and deny it obviously. For all types of use of words that are not gestures and gestures that are rude, it is also the chairman. When the chairman's reaction is lacking, then we MPs who guard the dignity of this Assembly, we refer to a fellow MP the most well-meaning suggestion and the words he utters.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37496	I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. Tell me, in what part of the Rules of Procedure do you have a right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37497	Then when you don't react to the chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37498	Where it says it in the Rules of Procedure, please read it to me because you're keeping everyone here as we should be. I'm asking you, can you read me that Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37499	When the chairman breaks his obligation to secure. The chairman is required to take care of the order of the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37500	Please a precise member, attitude, quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37501	Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37502	Article 27 doesn't say that. It is your interpretation of the application of the Rules of Procedure, as you also know well that the chairman decides when and at which point he will intervene. You know that, too, if you think I didn't see something or I overlooked it, as I did when I went down and discussed it, I asked the chairman to allow me to normally work as a MP. That is what the chairman does, and the MP asks the chairman, or says he doesn't have to ask, just to say – let me do the work of the MP normally. You are using the right to discuss the amendment by giving the MP an objection that he is not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, well, he is not going. Please. According to the amendment, MP Dejan Nikolic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37503	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I know Mr. Chairman that you understand us, we were MPs when waving papers turned into waving shoes, so I just know that you understand the concern but about the amendment. Minister, first of all, from the beginning of the discussion, you spoke about 20% of the amendments to 200 as many as there are in the law that has 40 members that the amendments are "expunged". So the apriors put all the amendments that read "be deleted", as amendments to the second order. So, this amendment is being denied right now. Why? Because we have submitted that the position of the 3rd member is deleted and that is how we are erasing me and not just one of the most corrupt views of this law. Therefore, we have provided for an amendment to delete Article 3 which reads – that a proposal to grant state aid is to be submitted without publication of a public call for investment of particular importance. I know you're going to make a proposal now, but if this is the agreement of Article 12 and the position that it says - that the government is closer to defining the criteria by which investment is defined as investment of special importance. What exactly does that mean? This means that the government will pass this law by some of its own criteria to determine what investments are of particular importance, then in Germany 11, they will set out proposals themselves and, of course, they will be implemented in practice. So, it makes its own decision, makes the criteria, alone, beyond this law, that is, the law gives it the legality to decide who to give it to, and that is what we have in practice. We also had this in practice with "Belgrade on Water". Was there a public call? It's not. Time will show whether we're right or you're right when we're talking about this project, but I'm talking about the corrupting element of this member. So, the government of this law, this member is actually a front for the government, to share in Germany's 11 citizens' money the way she thinks the best, without a public call, is far from the public eye. The citizens' money you've previously reduced wages and pensions leads to a struggle for existence. You have the opportunity to adopt this amendment, that this member, even if we save this member and make it better. Here, I ask you to reconsider, consult with your associate and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37504	Thank you. MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37505	Ladies and gentlemen, in the past ten minutes, a lot of things have been said that simply don't correspond to the truth and in some way demean this law and disinformation the public, if you will. So, there is a claim that there is no investment in Serbia. I found on the business chamber site of Serbia that in 2012, we had 232m euros of foreign direct investment, in 2013, it jumped to 750m euros, in 2014 billion and 220m euros, that in 2015 we are already approaching the figures of a billion euros, and the government has a desire to make it a billion and a half euro of foreign direct investment. So it is not true that the government has not worked until now to attract as much foreign direct investment as possible, and this simply shows data coming from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The data coming from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, if you think these are relevant, I think it's a very serious institution. So, this law should only continue this trend of increasing foreign direct investment and, if we are to take a realistic look at the law itself, it primarily addresses foreign direct investors, because the economic environment, the legal system of Serbia and how well known to domestic investors and all of these provisions, one good part of these provisions has been introduced to create the legal security of foreign direct investors. This law needs law. This is what needs to improve the inflow of foreign direct investment, and it is necessary not because of the SNS, not just because of this government, it is necessary for the citizens of Serbia. We are all aware that the citizens, that the economy, all of us in the previous two years, have submitted certain sacrifices to have fiscal consolidation. This fiscal consolidation, and I already said it once, is unsustainable unless we have more investment growth. So the government's intention is extremely well-intentioned. This law is necessary as well. He's talking about how the market will only decide which investor to come to Serbia, how the market is the wild west, and now it comes to whom it suits, and how it comes to mind, it's totally untrue, that we understand each other. Each market is regulated, each market has its width, it has its depth, you don't have markets if you don't have more economic operators, if these entities don't have any business activity. Please, China was mentioned at one point. China is your best example of how to combine market and planned economy. So the market isn't all-powerful. She managed to create a fantastic economic growth in the past ten, twenty years, but primarily by combining legal and market economies. Therefore, do not belittle this investor institute of special importance. There are criteria on which these investors will be classified. There's nothing wrong with that. We know what our goal is. We aim, among other things, to promote competition, but also regional development, to come up with more technologically significant investments, technologies that are more modern and needed and how we need them. All these criteria are ultimately given to the next member and each of the MPs can see what the government's real intention is. So I ask you not to misinformed the public that this law means nothing, that it will not do any good to Serbia. Each foreign investor binds to itself a number of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, and most of the businesses are from the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37506	I would ask colleagues from the ruling majority to respect that colleagues who do not support the government and submit amendments, as well as the minister have only two minutes, so I ask that you, too, have a business right and longer, but that so much you are using this right to state why you want to or do not want to vote on any amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the name of the member and member of the 12th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37507	We are looking for erasure and Article 12 because it is a logical continuation of Article 11 that is not good as we have spoken in the previous reporting, and this root of corruption continues through several of the following members, and then this increases when we get to the member who founded the Serbian Development Agency, in fact, the law should be called the law on Serbia's development agency, because twenty-five members of forty-something are committed to it. What's wrong with that? Of course, this is where the so-called. the criteria which determine the importance of investment. We've already talked about there's no investment in the economy, there's no way the state can invest itself, and that's the second part, that's infrastructure, that's budget funds or funds that are a hybrid of state budgets and some private ones can only assess what's more important than the other. The investor, not according to the rule, but always in private, whether it's an entrepreneur, whether it's the biggest company in the world has the freedom to decide what's significant for him and no one can measure that significance. Especially when it's measured by, says - the type and amount of investment, it's too wise, or long-term investment. How do you assess the long-term investment whether and how long it will give money for that investment or how long that investment will last or how long it will make a profit. That's at least three different criteria. References and investor credibility, that would be very interesting to see how you're going to determine that level of criteria. To be clear, attitude 2 says that the government is closer to setting criteria, and that means that the government is taking on itself, not the law, assessing what is significant and what criteria something can be significant. It can be a significant investment in the Bulgarian coast, for example. It may be estimated by the Serbian government that through the investment of a foreign investor, a small or large...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37508	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37509	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37510	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37511	You're the one who determines?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37512	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is opposed to accepting this amendment. You know what the whole trap of this amendment lies in? If you read the law carefully, and I'm sure it is, if you read Article 12 carefully, and I'm sure it is, then you have to read point 6) which says that – the criteria on which investment is determined are one, two, three, four, five and six – the references and credibility of the investor. What's the matter so far? Dark Fairy. It could have been a company that had problematic business in its home country, had been in a blockade, had been on some arrest warrants, could have come to Serbia and been presented as the best possible investor. The rescue, the malts like that company is going to invest in these vineyards. Now, a company that in its home country, precisely because of this point 6) of Article 12, must confirm its credibility. No more words of honor, no more acquaintances with someone, on word of honor, here's a good company, they're great. It's no longer worth it, and that kind of business is impossible. I don't want to pay for electricity, or I'm gonna block the highway, so I'm not gonna do this or what, so I'm gonna blackmail, so I don't know what. There are no longer such employers and such investors. That's what the amendment promoter wants, back to the old one, back to be trusted by word, to bring back some suspicious types, to return the investors purse, the bow, the smoke, that sort of thing is unsustainable. Unsustainable in the economy in Serbia, unsustainable nowhere else and therefore should not accept the amendment to Article 12. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37514	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister Sertic, the distinguished guest from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are three notes I would like to make here on behalf of our amendment, honored gentlemen to Article 12. First of all, here is Mr Babic to hear, we have stated precisely in the explanation that we are referring to our argument, to the amendment to Article 11, and we have written that – it is not in accordance with the rule of law, gentlemen, that precise quantitative and quality criteria for obtaining investment status of special importance, determines the Government, and that they are not defined by the very bill, because this is exactly the kind of formulation, the mechanism, I think, we are deafening ourselves from the pro-regular importance of this type of action, and what Mr Babic has been objecting to is precisely directed by some people to call on an honorable word, to someone's word, to some kind of friendship with someone, etc. The second note, gentlemen, we have finely written here, I do not know how Mr Babic does not refer to that part and Mr Sertic – leaving discretionary rights to the Government and prescribing criteria for obtaining investment status of particular importance and that such investments are freely and without a public call granted by state aid, the most direct mechanism for corruption is created, respected gentlemen. Now the question for us is the MPs here, will we, when we face what is the fact, Mr. Babic, which is evident, are we going to agree to that, or will we tell Mr. Sertic's representative to withdraw such a bill with such content? I've been fighting all day for this second approach, because it's in accordance with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37516	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Right on the line, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that I'm stuck here with a bunch of paper, and if it's the laws, if it's a parallel right, so I see that in other countries, whether it's empirical research, and often the opinions of experts from certain areas that have nothing to do with politics. I have an opinion in my hand about this bill, a top economist, a domestic, because I don't want to speak my name, because I don't have the authority, but someone who can really teach us about the economy and the economy and the state. She says – the newspaper in this part of the law is a ban on setting up an investor, if it is forbidden to carry out its work in a domicile country. This is a good solution, as it makes it impossible for companies with a suspicious business history, which is highly likely to assume that a certain illegal way of doing business would continue in Serbia as well. That's what economists say. That's what both domestic and foreign investors and businessmen are up to. Once we have to separate the grain from the weeds. Once we have to separate the honest from the dishonest. Once we have to separate the businessmen from the tycoon. Once we need to separate those who are responsible and honorably dealing with the work from those who do it dishonestly and irresponsiblely. We can't hide behind the rule of law flossules, and we're actually looking for an end to the possibility of a company that wants to participate and invest in our country has to show and prove the legality of business and the country in which it was founded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37518	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37519	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37520	Based on what, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: On the basis of Article 104, as always. ) Mr Pavicevic, a colleague of Babic read the opinion of people from the profession, did not speak to you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He spoke to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37521	I hope you'll give me my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37522	Here's a colleague of Djukanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37523	I can't understand why someone would delete the investment criteria. It's completely unclear to me. Especially if here at point 6) emphasizes the investor’s reference and credibility. I don't know what references and credibility the state has given subsidies to some vineyards. This morning, Mr. Arsic, we were talking about a certain company in New Vienna called the Guard, right? He was supposed to build a home for children distracted by development. Of course, the money's gone, and it's never been built. You know what's problematic about that? What this same firm, when you look at the APR of its balance sheet, is clear to you that this company was essentially used to pump up money for the citizens of Vojvodina. Because that firm in Novi Sad, during their power, got to build 11 kindergartens and never seemed to have built them. A great deal of money has been given. Just look at the balance. They have almost no net gain. They have money that comes from a huge business, and the net profit almost nothing, even in the end they're completely failing and they're getting to an employee. People like that, with no reference or credibility, someone was giving our money. In fact, such companies have served to pump money, in this particular case of the citizens of Vojvodina. You know what the worst part is? I read a little bit about that company. Well, among other things, the owner of that company says, right around the children's home distracted in development, so he says, "It's no problem, I have the money, but nobody asked me to bring it back." Then you can imagine what business looks like and what they've been doing to us here. So I don't understand why someone would delete an item related to the investor's reference and credibility? Well, I think it's something that's absolutely desirable. Thank God the state is introducing some kind of order. Because, really, I can't have companies with a purse-mad system coming in here and taking our money and who knows where that money ends without ever building anything. That time of granting subsidies to non-creditable vineyard companies I hope it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37524	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37525	Dear MPs, I really agree with you that Article 12 is one of the most important in this document, in this law, precisely because for the first time we are introducing clear and precise criteria for what it is that a potential investor should meet in order to qualify at all to come into the Serbian development agency that we are establishing, to talk to state officials, on this basis to be referred as a proposal to the Serbian Development Agency, that this body as a collective body with three ministers, a representative of the business community and a director of Serbia's development agency establish a proposal for possible incentives, and that this guide to the regular procedure on granting state aid, as defined by the law. So neither the Serbian Development Agency nor the Serbian Government nor any decision on it, but the State Aid Commission, in accordance with the law passed by the Assembly. Why does it matter? Why is it important for us to have criteria that will make it even closer to the quantitative norms through the regulation, and the regulation is, as you know, a public document, which will also stand on the website of the Government of Serbia and be published on the website, on the website of the Serbian Development Agency and on the website of the Ministry of Economy? You will be able to all of you on equal terms to see what the conditions are and what is necessary, in addition to these criteria that we put in Article 12, so what is needed to qualify for such a thing. There was no practice so far. So far, the practice has been exactly what we are accused of today, and we are changing this law, which is that anyone can come to the minister or any other civil servant to agree with him what, and in what way the means to provide, and then not to talk about potential other things and to go through it simply with just one signature. We're just the opposite of putting a serious order into what we said at the beginning was of 273 contracts, 89 we broke up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37526	Thank you. On what basis are you answering Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Another replica? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Mr Sertic has just explained our explanation but in the wrong way. You have no right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37527	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the amendment's proposing that the criteria be deleted to determine the importance of investment under the code of "the rule of law". I ask you ministers when you have time to give us such a detailed report that this rule of law was at the time of issue of US-style Sartids, which criteria were, which was the number of new jobs and the effect of investment, the type and amount of investment, the impact on the overall external trade balance of the Republic of Serbia, the long-term investment, the creation of a high value or high additional value and the reference and credibility of investors. You do the same thing, you don't have to deliver us if you think there are certain parts, business secret contracts and for a contract with Fiat, so let's see how it used to be compared to contracts with special purposes, of state interest, and what it's supposed to look like today under this law. You are absolutely right to introduce such a member of the law, which is why you have introduced a system of values based on which the allocation of funds will finally be made, there must be criteria and system solutions in society when it comes to investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37528	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I now call on Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Mr. Arsic, Mrs. Tomic has now asked the minister to explain to us, the MPs, what the rule of law is about the actions of some economic operators. Mr. Arsic, we cannot have legislators, a representative of the executive government explaining what the rule of law is, Mr. Arsic. I remind all of us here MPs and honored guests from the executive government of the Republic of Serbia that the rule of law is defined by Article 3 of the Constitution and that, Mr Arsic, in Article 98. The Constitution writes – The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of constitutional and legislative authority in our Republic, which means that we are competent, respected gentlemen here, to explain to other people what the rule of law is, and not to ask the representatives of the executive government to explain to us here to the MPs on some examples what the rule of law is. I think it was my turn for Mr Arsic to point out in one sentence only to Mrs Tomic that it is not appropriate for us to address the team for representatives of the executive government but to use every opportunity when one of them comes, and today it is about Mr Sertic, that we explain to them a little bit what the rule of law is, especially when we suspect that the actions of one of them are, and in this case Minister Sertic, contrary to the great principle of rule of law, respected gentlemen and respected Mr Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37530	I don't think I've broken Article 1. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly because I understood the presentation of my colleague Tomic in a way that the government should explain how he maintains the rule of law in accordance with its constitutional and legal powers. Now, if you always have a feeling that there's an anarchy here in the state, it's your feeling, but don't use it as an institution to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37531	I'm sorry, I answered the last amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37532	You weren't in the electronic system. I'm sorry. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37533	Thank you. Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have tried this amendment, which has been the subject of the debate so far, that in some ways we have completed and repaired because we have considered it unspecified, so we have suggested that criteria on which investment is determined are: under one, the number of new jobs and the effect of investment on the number of employees in the local self-government unit and we have added – autonomous provinces and the Republic of Serbia, under two, type and amount of investment, under three, the impact on the overall external trade balance of the Republic of Serbia or in individual industrial branches, i.e. according to targeted export markets, under four, long-term investment, under five, creating a high value or high value, under six, references and business reputation of investors, because we think that this is more appropriate than the credibility of investors, which you are using. Furthermore, the next view says that the government is closer to determining the criteria under which investment is defined as investment of particular importance or as investment of local importance, in accordance with this law and regulations governing the allocation and control of state aid. The regional government, the new position we add, which is closer to defining the criteria under which investment is defined as an investment of importance for the development of an autonomous province or importance in accordance with this law and regulations governing the allocation and control of state aid. On the one hand, we believe that the amendment represents a alignment with the amendment that we have made to Article 11 of the law, and on the other hand, it proposes standards according to which criteria it sets out which investments are considered to be investment of importance for the development of an autonomous province are determined by the province's government. We find this solution logical and consistent. To repeat the question you did not answer me – how do you think, Mr. Minister, that this will affect the economic rebirth of southern Serbia, especially the city of Nis, because it is evident that this government, in any form, has not been thinking since 2012, has not buried the Ashes in the city of Nis? I ask you how do you think the economy of the city of Nis will begin under this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37534	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37535	Article 13 The investment law has just been resolved by what you have proposed here, regarding an autonomous province.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37536	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37537	Mr. Minister, here, we've been discussing amendments for five and a half hours now, and in all this time, we can actually hear different concepts proposed by the MPs, in fact unaware of the fact that they advocate two concepts. In fact, this amendment to Article 12 speaks about the need for a subsidy from the State. Very often today we listen, it is a great pleasure to me as economists, which I can hear – a completely liberal concept, practically Frieden's economic theory. This is for every economist what is dreamed of, but the problem is that today we do not live in a dream but live in Serbia and not just live in Serbia because of the problems that exist, but because we live in Europe, because today there is not a purely liberal market in the area of investment and investment. There is no country today in the Balkans, nor in Europe that gives subsidies to foreign and domestic investors. All of us who deal with the economy dream of a dream, but today we have to live reality. This bill practically so far, the 12th member, was mostly about freedom. Freedoms are something indisputable, regardless of whether we're talking about liberal freedoms, economic principles or what we want to strive for, after we've come out of an economic order that never provided for freedom. I don't mean years before us, decades before us. The government, the proposal, setting the criteria for investment, is a member of the 12th, which the ministry thinks is best. Except for the variant of whether we agree with the concept of helping investors domestically and foreignly remains a technique. The government thinks she's the best at this point. We'll see soon enough. Our experiences are quite difficult when we talk about foreign and domestic investments. Mr Minister, it is not easy to be an SNS MP today, not because of the majority, which is undeniable in this House, but because of the fact that we must also defend your proposal, the Government proposal, the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia, the IMF, we must also defend the World Bank. We are today defending all of this by an argument that is clear and that says, however politically different, there is none of the key economic institutions that say Serbia is going the right way today. This law and investment criteria are certainly a continuation of this whole economic trend, and we will see the results very quickly. Whether foreign investment will come or not, whether what we must never forget, domestic, small investors will invest more and receive incentives provided by this law, is the essence of growth and development of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37538	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37539	I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37540	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37541	So, first of all, to answer to an esteemed colleague why do we have different amendments? Well, because we have different views, and in contrast, don't be offended by most MPs, I represent the interests of the citizens of Nis. Fortunately, my party's program coincides with my thinking, and all of this coincides with the demands of the Nish citizens. When you talk about investment, what this law says, it's all nice when the Republic helps, I just don't know how local self-governments that fill the budget with 60%-65% will be able to meet investors, because that's where infrastructure equipment is thought of, probably, and some relief from local giving. It will be very difficult in local self-government, even in your local self-government, the fellow you come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37542	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37543	Article 107(1), Mr. Chairman. About Mr Bradic, I really do have a high opinion, but I think and I would like, indeed, that what he said earlier, that more is a matter of lapsis and speed than I really think, which is a sentence he said – unlike many MPs here, I represent the interests of the citizens. Well, I guess we all represent the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37544	He said – the interests of the citizens of Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37545	Well, well, there's more colleagues here from Nis, Mr. Arsic. I guess they do. After all, Serbia is one electoral unit. When there are more electoral units and Nis or Vronjačka Banja, Kraljevo, Subotica are special constituencies or districts, or your Fireman, Mr Arsic, then we will talk about such partial interests, but I guess we are now representing the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is what I am saying on behalf of all the MPs and the opposition and the authorities, and I think I represent the interests of the citizens, and you represent who, leaving that space, did not say, but left that space, I think it is offensive to all citizens, that is, to all the MPs. I believe that, knowing my colleague Bradic as a very correct and active MP, I believe he does not think that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37546	My colleague Bradic, you have no right to the Republic at the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That rule wasn't made up by me, so I can't help you. All I can do is tell my colleague Babic I'll take care of it. I fully agree with you that Serbia is a single electoral unit and, as I wish well to the Fireman, from whom I come, I want the same thing to the rest of Serbia. Let's move on. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37547	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, in order to improve legal solutions in Article 12, in paragraph 1, we add point 7) which would read: "Increasing production activity in the country. If we are already considering the criteria through which we define the ways of investment, we believe that the point brought contributes to precision and helps to economic development. We believe that the priority of increasing nature, i.e. increasing the country's production activity, could thus lead to new jobs, i.e. new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37548	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37549	I think we're talking about the same direction and, in the same sense, from virtually all six criteria, namely, the first five defines exactly this position that you wrote as an increase in production activity in the country, but we wanted to write it in this way because of the precision of what we need, in order to get into quantitative forms later, and the precise explanation of the conditions for investment, we had to write it and want to write it in this way, but everything is right in this direction. I thank you, but I think we're essentially at the same job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37550	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37551	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. In fact, we propose that the government of the Republic of Serbia be deprived of the exclusive right to decide what investments are of its importance and to move what or what we propose to look different or to do with the law, for several reasons. First, you see yourself as a previous member, to whom you did not want to accept our amendment, allow yourself to share, for those investments for which you estimate that you are of particular importance, state aid without publishing a public call, and further allow yourself, for those investments that you consider to be of particular importance, to share money with a hand and a cap, whatever you think of without consulting any state authorities of this country. You give some general criteria here, however, don't be angry, but your past tells us that you're not objective in assessing who your strategic partners are, so when you're talking about the reference and credibility of investors, which you listed as the crown proof of the control of what you're declaring investors of special importance, you forget to say that you're for the biggest investment, which you've declared to be an investment of the century in this country, a guarantee for the execution of that job is a company that was founded on a deadline of one year, and all the companies doing that job have 100 dinars of a founding role, and this is seen on the APR site. On the other hand, it can cause a little confusion, let's say, when we consider real investment in our country. Let's say, in Novi Sad, our mayor is opening a traffic light site. You'd say if it wasn't a very big investment of local importance, some would even say it wasn't an investment, but if you look at it, the mayor's present, we don't have what number of employees, which kind of is the amount of investment, as long as it lasts. Without it being defined by law, you can actually declare the construction site for traffic lights a special investment, because for Novi Sad, such an investment is a major event, because larger investments do not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37552	The word is made by MP Jasmina Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37553	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. - The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The statement we heard earlier that the mayor of Novi Sad is opening a traffic light, not that it is not a construction site, I think it is unnecessary to mention the word "building site", when it comes to a traffic light, is an insult to the Parliament's dignity, but also to all citizens. To be clear, there is a traffic light in Novi Sad in place in a place where ten years of citizens have asked for a variety of petitions, but because of the legislation and the jurisdiction of the works on that section, the traffic light has not been set up. Until the mayor cut, he gave the order to set up a traffic light and only some members of the City Council visited the place to make sure the job was under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37554	I believe the Rules of Procedure have not been broken in any part. I would ask the MPs not to talk about traffic lights, at least in the National Assembly. The same goes for colleague Jerkov. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37555	By amendment, Mr. Chairman. If this amendment were to apply to a document that applies to the province administration, believe me, I would raise both my hands and vote for it. Why? To take away the right of Bojana Pajtic to no longer put his hand in the pocket and to the budget of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina is a blessing. We'd do a great and good deed. Why? Because from 2011 to 2013, when it was realised, where luck is being realized, but I will show you that this is directed by Bojan Pajtić and the amendment promoter is the realisation of the project for the purposes of housing and stay of children distracted in development, showing that nothing is sacred to them, and that neither the sick children are sacred nor the dams to draw their hand deep into their pockets, in the municipality of Novi Beča's adaptation to the Castle of Heterland, the anti-legal property benefit of the company "Gardi", see again "Gardi", next to those not built kindergartens and who knows what else, now and children distracted in development, from Novi Sad in the amount of 61,722,724 dinars, and Igor Rebi, the owner and responsible person of the company "Gardi" d.o.o. from Novi Sad, 12,877,000 dinars, where the municipality of Novi Becay... I believe it's very funny for the amendment promoters to reverse children distracted in development and drag their hand into their pocket, and then come to the National Assembly and laugh so sweetly at that thieving Bojan Pajtic. It is the addition of the reputation of both the National Assembly and this highest representative home, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Just laugh, but look in the mirror. Look in the mirror before you smile and look at this data. This is directly damaged, material damage has been done, since the project, worth 112,075,000 dinars, has not been built to date. Look at Bojan Pitiæ's relationship. Look at the Democratic Party's relationship. See what kind of home they spent on 112,000,000 dinars for children distracted by development. Look! Deposed, decomposed, kidnapped, but kidnapped. Because this amendment applies to the province administration, to Bojan Pajtic, here, not 250 MPs to vote for it, 500 hands would be raised, only to take away his right to steal more and take away from those who are sick, which is an additional sin. Also, from 2009, we will reach Užica, from 2009 to 2011, when we realized the project of building the House of Youth, for the purposes of the "Filip Višnić" Music School in the Municipality of Šid, an anti-legal property benefit was added to the company, imagine which, "Gardi" from Novi Sad in the amount of 3. 300,000, 00 dinars, Igor Rebi of 26 million dinars, with the Capital Investment Fund being a material damage of nearly 30 million dinars, and the municipality of Šid, since no facility has been built to date with the value of 98,243.000,00 dinars. But, not all, Someone, children distracted in development get this home, but that's why Mr. Momcilo Milovic, a high-ranking official of the Capital Fund, investments alongside that godfather and close associate of Mr. Elezovic, with all those 34 apartments, has got more apartment for all these marifetteluke. It's kind of like an extra one. Now, these are investments, and it's an investment and they're investors directed by Bojan Pajtic and DS. But to further isolate young people from music school, both children and parents of children distracted by development, here we now get noise, we get laughter from those who support such policies of DS and Bojan Pajtic in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37556	National MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37557	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Arsic, you violated article 107 because I think you're aware of that yourself, you've allowed a gentleman who spoke earlier to use a number of ugly expressions for DS officials and I don't think this debate should turn into how many previous speakers there have been in Belgrade for the last three or four years. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Tell me where. ) Some who are in construction, for example, not constantly speaking, have been here for the fourth year, as someone has given someone something, or provided in Vojvodina. If the gentleman who spoke earlier knew it was a crime, I ask him to go to the nearest police station and report it. But don't turn... (Zoran Babic, Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: We left. ) Here I can't even end up yelling and shit, but I ask you not to turn this into a senseless lie and slander of some people who don't have a single verdict, and many of them have been legally freed from any possible responsibility. Therefore, I ask you to respond in the future in cases like this and in the case of specimens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37558	I'm just trying to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Hold on. Hold on, I say. First, when it comes to expression and everything else, I can only ask the MPs of both the former regime and the current regime to refrain from it. As has been said here that the "Belgrade on Water" project is unconstitutional, that Mr. Sertic will favour some firms, because one of the biggest investors, as the Mayor of Novi Sad goes to a construction site where a traffic light is being released, a construction site for one traffic light, etc., is opening up, be prepared to receive a response from the other side. Maybe it hurts, like you do, when you hit. Just like when you say the law is unconstitutional, and the Constitutional Court hasn't heard from him yet, and I voted for that law, and it bothers me, but I won't. So I ask you from the level of discussion and MPs of the ruling majority and the former regime depends on how much we're going to go into such extreme cases. The People's MP Goran Ciric has the right to reply. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You'll do the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. (Goran Ciric, from the place: you have already given me your word.) ) Mr. Kiric, I later noticed that Mr. Risticevic had already called. (Goran Ciric, from the place: you have already given me your word.) No, no, no, I didn't. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Yesterday you did not give me the right to the Rules of Procedure, because you gave the other person the word, be fair. ) Mr. Kiric, I will now consider this to be one provocation that failed you, because you know very well how the National Assembly works and that while I was answering my colleagues to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he could have sought Mr. Risticevic's word. That's what you can see on the monitor here. I wanted to give you my word, because while I was answering you I was looking at you and I knew from the previous discussion that you had a real replica. Meanwhile, I was warned by counterpart Risticevic that he is seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which has a championship in relation to the right to replication. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37559	Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't mind the MPs, but it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure if I had my word after my colleague. However, the Rules of Procedure say Article 103 that the advertising of the Rules of Procedure is done immediately after the injury has been done. I signed up and raised the Rules of Procedure the moment he finished his speech, Mr. Balsa Bozovic. Since I'm advertising Article 103, I believe that Mr. Balsa Bozovic has misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that he has had a classical replica. So, the replica was defined by Article 104, you did not give him that right in the replica, but he used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate and thus violated Rule 103. Since attitude 8 did so, it says that in such cases the abuse, or time spent in abuse, is being taken away from the entire time. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Arsic, that if you do not take that time away from the DS parliamentary group this time, to do so in the future, given that the violations of the Rules of Procedure have been misused by the party of the former regime often, as a way of replicating other MPs. I personally don't mind using it that way, but we must have some measure in the future, if not now, make sure that you take that time away from the time of the parliamentary group that is getting thinner and thinner and looks like those pensions that they retired and led to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37560	You may be right, Mr. Risticevic, but I still respect the SNS president's request that we be kind to the representatives of the former regime. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37561	Here we have had the opportunity to hear again the reaction to information about what the biggest investments in some cities and municipalities in Serbia are, so the reaction to the opening of a hole in Novi Sad to set up a traffic light. From the Minister himself, we heard on the Committee on Economic Affairs that 90% of the president of the municipalities and the assembly of towns in Serbia is not doing a good job. And that was the attitude that all of us board members heard. We know in which way after the local elections the government was constructed in a number of municipalities and cities in the crossover of many cities and municipalities and those who worked successfully. If you think you will forget that opening of the hole in Novi Sad, opening of the toilets in Leskovac at the local cemetery, opening a large venture, it is a red white walking pass in Nis or in many other cities of meaningless public representation of major procedures and major investments. If you think that Vojvodina should also turn into such an investment field, I will remind you that in 2013, Prime Minister Pajtic received the award as the most successful regional in attracting investments and I will tell you some of these investments. I wish we had such a kind of investment throughout Serbia, Kalsberg in Celarev, Hemofarm Vršac, Lafaž, Marbo, Simens and many other investments. You can laugh, but the total value of these investments is about three billion and 900m euros, at the time of the province's government's mandate and Prime Minister Pajtic's. This is information that you can check and the minister himself to confirm, and if you think it is necessary to turn Vojvodina into a field in which such projects and investments will be promoted from...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37562	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37563	I was now thinking of giving the previous speaker part of the time of the SNS, so that he has enough time to list all these investments by Bojan Pajtic, etc. But aside from Bojan Pajtic's investment and Hemofarm, I have now heard for the first time, and I know that "Hemofarm" exists long before Bojan Pajtic and began to deal with politics, that it is fortunate that he has never done such a thing, here are billions we have now counted. But how did the government of Mirko Cvetkovic find 13% unemployment in these huge investments, and then those successful, so powerful, so fair, so responsible and made four years of unemployment more than 26%? Well, I guess he's investing to open up a new job and get people to get a job and make money. How did you invest, bring in investors, and lose jobs? It's just an ordinary logic that doesn't allow. Unless you invested it all, but in your pockets. It is already another kind of investment, and according to what Bojan Pajtic's investments look like, I would say that children are distracted in the development and families of children disturbed by development, with their torment and their problems, and that the pockets of Gardi, Garni, Pajtic and others have become quite full. As for these investments and those things you're looking ridiculously at, with a mockery, what about the huge investments you've been boasting about, and they've been in the sauce modelling and in the public kitchen? You bring people to the beggar stick first, leave them with nothing, and then open a soup kitchen and say, "Here, we've solved your problem, we've left you out of work, but you've got a public kitchen so you can eat there." Is that in those three billion investments by Bojan Pitiæ? Does that have anything to do with Hemofarm? Watch out for the people, “Hemopharm ”! My last name was made by this “Hemofarm, ” many people worked. This has nothing to do with Bojan Pajtic, because if it had anything to do with Bojan Pajtic, Hemofarm would look like this (the National MP Zoran Babic shows the photo). Like "Hetherland", without a roof, without anything, without a window, without a door, and 112 million dinars in the pockets of Gardi and Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37564	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 13 refers to investment incentives, where it is said which incentives can be used by investors. It then lists state aid, customs benefits, tax benefits, etc. We have suggested, by our amendment, that Article 2 be deleted, because we consider Article 13 to be excessive. It reads – users of the incentives set out in Article 1 are natural and legal persons who are taxpayers of taxes and contributions and other public revenues in the Republic of Serbia. We think this is too high, because all of this is seen from other provisions, that users of incentives can only be taxpayers. Then we suggested in point 5 of the amendment. Article 5 provides, following the proposal from the Proposer, for the ministry to conclude the grant of incentives contracts. We are of the view that contracts on the allocation of incentive funds provided by the Republic of Serbia's budget with the investor are concluded by the minister responsible for business affairs, with the government's prior consent. Of course, we have added a new position that says - the grant contracts provided by the AP budget, i.e. the local self-government unit, with the investor are concluded by the competent authority of the AP, i.e. local self-government. So, we repeat, the grant contracts cannot conclude the ministry, but only the minister, given the provisions of the regulations on ministries and regulations governing the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37566	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37567	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if we were to ensure that the minister is in the O.R., it would be better, since these are amendments concerning his proposal for a law here before the MPs, but we can talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37568	You want to wait for the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37569	It would be very desirable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37570	Break to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37571	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37572	We're going back to work. I thank my colleague Balsha for being concerned about the minister. Are you looking for a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37573	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, we were worried the truth about Mr Sertic, so we thought that because of this bad law, he ended up running away and not waiting for a vote. To Article 13, and I'm glad you're encouraged to be here, after Article 4, we're adding a new position 5. Mr. Sertic, it would be very desirable for you to respond to this proposal. Investors who exercise the right to incentives must direct some of these incentives towards whom? To those who are the most vulnerable groups in our society. So, incentives to hire women under the age of 30 and those over 45 who have lost their jobs and jobs are hard to find. We think that when over 50% of young people are unemployed today in Serbia, when 100,000 people among them are the youngest, have fled Serbia for the last four years. We think that this amendment of ours is very important and that this is how we essentially treat Serbia's biggest problem, and that's unemployment, these very categories of faces. We think it's very important that you understand, too, that there's no bad intentions here, no outwitting. This is politics, this is life. Please comment on whether you are too for the largest number of young people in Serbia today to get a job by focusing incentives on the employment of these groups of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37574	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37575	Thank you. For the sake of the amendment, just to repeat what we're going to do for years in front of us, whoever the government and the president are listening to, which is that every investor is going to ask for some part of the money from the budget, that's how it's going to be in all countries, and that's how it's going to be with us. I am not satisfied with this, but these are the consequences of the 2008 experts and crisis, or 1999 bad solutions to the economic crisis, with half of the 1980s. So the investor is going to ask for money from the budget. This budget money is all charged with 84% of the total amount of the budget, it is charged from VAT to excise, so we consumers. As we open our eyes, that's how we pay some VAT, we use cigarettes to pay our taxes and make the government happy, filling her budget with almost 180m euros. Our proposal is, if you don't want a public announcement, if you're already leaving a very reasonable doubt that this law serves private agreements with investors, then at least that money, which is money from all of us in the budget, is money that has color. We can't talk about what the incentive is going to be, it doesn't stand, because I'm not telling him what business policy should be, I'm telling him what to do with the money, the public money from the budget he gets as an incentive. If it's gonna be really hiring women, I'm sure of it, because they're below the level of employment. I am also in favour of a woman being 50% in all parliaments and governments and executive councils and everywhere where decisions are being made because she decides on our lives, but also people under 30, because that solves a huge problem that is in front of all of us and that we do not have a dialogue, which we share with the EU, unfortunately, only the EU share problems, we do not share their standard yet and we do not share their knowledge of dialogue, which we could. And, people over the age of 45, there was a dilemma here whether to be persons over 50 years old or 45 years old, because these are categories that you even know, and we have data on how many total people who live in Serbia, and for which, indirectly, this investment law should bring about a improvement. When and in order to adopt this amendment, it ceases to have the name of the applicant, it becomes the property of the government and of all of us. You have in your hands the strongest argument, that about incentives or incestivities or contribution, or whatever or whatever you want to call, state aid all one thing. Every country has a different name for it, but it's about the money from the budget that the investor is looking for, everywhere. The government that looks into the future sees that there is a law that can be addressed to all people whose name it does public affairs and says – here, we will give it, all of it, that's our common money, that's not decided by the Assembly, that the Assembly won't even be informed about it, that it is discreetly decided by the Government, but the Government is sending you a message that we are discreetly deciding that the most vulnerable groups that are most difficult to hire get a greater chance of employment. This leaves you an opportunity, and you know it, quite certainly, better than me, to make this provision contractually binding in contracts with the investor in a manner that corresponds to the signatories of the contract. But it's the least possible step we all have to take, to show that we understand all the difficulties of 21st century investment, which will only be bigger, but that we understand the obligation to collect public money and manage public money that belongs to everyone. To them, to us, to everyone who fills that budget, paying VAT, excises, property taxes, directly, in cash, out of their pocket, that's the tax that none of us like, neither of us, because in cash you have to pay it, and that's the money that the investor has. We know, I think the minister knows it better than I do, foreign direct investment doesn't turn into jobs, when you look at all the analyses, it's the subject of professional circles, international organisations, it just doesn't happen. You see, you have growth and you have foreign direct investment, all of it doesn't turn into jobs. This is a problem that many people also deal with in countries with problematic, demographic development, but high economic development, and in countries with good democratic potential and economic development. Our proposal is in your favor again. This is what you will talk about in your own name and in your own governments, because it is a law that applies to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37576	Just to let you know that there are ten seconds left for discussion for the DS parliamentary group. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37577	Your proposal makes sense, and I don't think there's anyone in this room or in our country who wouldn't agree with us in any way to encourage the employment of young people, or to help the elderly whether it's 45 or 50 or whatever years, we make a limit to make it somewhat affirmable. However, this will certainly be done by some other policies and incentives, and we in the ICJ Development Strategy in January of the month, which is available to all precisely that policy. So, hiring young people and social entrepreneurship to help us through different other norms to ensure the employment of these people. I cannot agree and we did not agree on the Government or on the Committee to adopt this amendment in this form and in this way. What we're going to do, which is certainly in a regulation that will also be publicly available and a public document, in the criteria that we're describing the level of potential incentives, and now we're talking about state aid, so not by encouraging those three categories, other ones that have nothing to do with it, we can put and we need to put that some higher level of incentive you're going to have companies that are in these categories hiring young people. But first of all, because of the unbalanced regional development and because of the specificity of our educational workforce, we cannot directly condition this in the member himself to be general for all investors. Because you have certain actions in which, for example, investor companies are exclusively looking for young people up to 30 years old, which is sometimes a problem for us how and where to provide them with that number of people. In any case, I repeat, your idea and what is done every day and what is through many other legal solutions is an important overall increase in activity in the country, will bring employment to both young and old but we will certainly support this idea in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37578	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37579	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, Mr. Sertice, I have to admit, I'm not going to fully agree with you either, probably not with most of my parliamentary group. So here we speak for ourselves, so, like Vladimir Djukanovic, not as SNS or express it as an attitude. I don't agree with this kind of demagogy that's spreading around here. We must finally define ourselves whether we are a society, and otherwise the gentlemen who propose this amendment have seduced us with such neoliberal capitalism here that they have suddenly become great friends and comrades. They've led the country to total chaos, where you're literally struggling to bring in some investor, and now we're asked to condition an investor how many people are going to work where. Well, that's nowhere to be found. Well, I guess our goal is that if this investor comes and gives him the incentive to expand his production, then of course he's going to hire additional people, not that I condition him that he has to women or a certain category of persons to hire. Well, a man employs as many people as his economic account, I guess that makes sense. And where good luck spreads its production and employs a lot more people, that would be great. But today, across Europe, you have a crisis all over the world, a big problem to bring in an investor. This is where we're asked to condition someone to do business. So come on, define yourself, let's say, let's say this is adopted, and we give the incentive to hire a certain number of people who are wanted here, from this amendment. So we're gonna give these people money out of the budget every year, pay them back? Well, if you'll excuse me, it's self-government socialism, then it's not a private company. Let's not really play with these things. I know this is nice and it's totally nice for someone to listen to in a campaign, or to run marketing like this, but I'm sorry, it has to be told the truth to the people. And it can't be those who have conducted the robbery privatisation and who have completely destroyed our economy now, all of a sudden, and who have finally passed such a labour law, that the employer could throw a man out whenever he wants on the street, now suddenly he's running a demagogue one story for us and telling people that they're pushing for, I don't know about hiring a certain category of people, etc. It's just, you know, people, it's just business. A man employs as many people as his economic account. I'm sorry it's like that, after all, you brought us here and you knocked down some system that might have been working for someone. Today, going back to something like that, I'm sorry, there's no place in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37580	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Kiriq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37581	So this must be the best amendment we've heard here today, and I think it would significantly fix the not-so-great law we're going to get. There are no conditions here for any investors, but this is one of the conditions that can be established, and anyone interested in encouraging the state of Serbia from the state budget will think about it and know that they will have a better chance of being encouraged if it counts to open up the possibility of hiring women, girls, those who are most vulnerable, who are the most likely to get jobs, and those up to 30 years without first reference, the difficult references to get the first job and those over 45 years which are the most difficult to get jobs, and we know, we also talked about examples of both ways and challenges and the ministers themselves from all governments, and these governments and previous governments, which is that those older, and especially women over 45, can hardly get jobs, but how they have great demands, especially in the textile industry or some other industries, we have whole regions that have this type of labour supply. I think this could be another additional motive, that companies appear with exactly those demands, and I think this is one of the best amendments, if not the best, and I think the minister himself would show at least 1% autonomy, but it is necessary to show at least 1% autonomy, because not one amendment of MPs from the opposition has been accepted, except for those who have coincided with the amendment of OMBUDSMAN and the Commissioner for Public Information. I think that would prove that you can adopt that 1% autonomy. I see you're thinking about it, because we don't need later decisions that will establish criteria. This criterion should be established in law, which will show future investors who expect this type of incentive, and closer will be determined later. I think it would be very important and a big step would be done if you would accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37582	I know Mr. Djukanovic, but that's not enough. No mention of your name. That principle applies to everyone and to you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37583	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, must have been a good intention. But I think the amendment in this form is completely inapplicable. So here's why. Because you have investors who simply have their investments in different types of action. How to speed up women's employment, like in a smelt, in a hardware store, when it's just impossible. In finding a certain number of young people under 30, if they simply do not have adequate professional equipment for such types of work. Today, investors are priced, above all, knowledge, means professional training, and above all, the price of market conditions of business. When you talk about foreign direct investment and downfall, this applies to Western economies. That's right. But there, investment is thought of securities of value, not real goods as in areas such as Western developed countries, when we talk about productive activities, as when we talk about the Western Balkans, Greenfield and Brownfield investments are in decline, but when we talk about Serbia, we talk about real goods. To create new jobs, to create new values. So we're not talking about securities in value. And if you want new jobs, manufacturing, you have to build objects, you have to hire some people to do it, which will create that new value, you have to bring in machines, and you have to have professional people who would do it and create a new value. Therefore, I am very sorry, but I think that the concept, in general, of hiring young people and hiring women, is completely different from that of this investment law, because they need to open their own, to force entrepreneurship, their companies that will practically appear on the market that the state will help through other types of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37584	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Mrs. Comic, on what grounds? And you have 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37585	Thank you. When you encourage common money, such an amendment, or a member of the law, it is either, or, or, and, and, women over 45 and those who enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37586	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, I thank you again for this "professor-doctor" even though I still don't have that teaching status, but I see that you appreciate my performances in the Assembly so much that you have to call me "professors". Thank you, Mr. Becic. And, dear Mr. Sertic, we have submitted an amendment to Article 14. Honored gentlemen and Mr. Sertic. This is now an opportunity to stand up, answer the word and say that you have made a mistake not accepting this amendment because, in paragraph 1, Mr Sertić writes like this – importing the equipment that represents me, the role of a foreign investor. Well, he can't represent me, gentlemen. And we then suggested, Mr Sertić, that the formulation should be like this – importing equipment that represents the role of a foreign investor, in other words. We, like many times so far, respected gentlemen, have shown our adherence to the rules of the Serbian language, shown and pointed to other MPs, and also to the government's representatives the necessity to respect the greatest principle of our constitutional system, respected gentlemen, but I must repeat it, it seems from session to session, from amendment to amendment, because it seems that in this majority this principle is not being respected, and this principle is called Mr. Becic's principle of rule of law. And, Mr Sertić, I think it is impossible to round up the debate on this amendment without you saying in a microphone like this, to accept our amendment despite the fact that the MPs of the Progressive Party certainly wouldn't want to vote for it either and that the government voted against it at its session. I am asking you here now to plead, so that everyone can hear very clearly whether you accept this language amendment as well. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37588	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37589	Shall I continue, Mr. Vienna, since I see that I have a microphone on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37590	Mr. Pavicevic, I take back what I said to "honored professors". Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37591	To the pleasure of a honourable MP, I can say I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37592	Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: I suggested. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37593	Thank you very much. These two minutes, first of all, I'm going to spend on thanking the Minister for his respect, of course this is a mistake, and that's not an intention, and that's not the essence of this law. But of course we should pay attention also to Mr Pavicevic and I reading these texts and the essence very carefully but also the form itself. Since I have another minute and a half, it would be a lot to praise you for another minute and a half, then I would say something else, that the quality of this law will certainly not contribute to the debates that take place about things that many colleagues do not know. There's a famous story about vineyards. I've already offered it several times to anyone of interest, any business plan for the production of grapes and wine, any expert advice regarding the choice of variety, any approach to how to present it to the competent fund and get a subsidy like all the winemakers got since 2001 on here, I'm ready to talk about it. If the story is about, but not of course at the session, but we can do it for a public hearing or a lecture to the interested colleagues, and if the story is about the vineyard, this 1,000-year-old fear of the hoard, if that fellow is afraid of what will be waiting for them when they are no longer Members of Parliament or when they are no longer in power, I warn them there's no reason to be afraid of it. Technology has progressed, the disruptors are very little used in agriculture even in Serbia, so don't be afraid of it. If you have any other established fear it's okay, but don't be afraid of the disruptors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37594	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice when fellow MPs deal with such an important law that regulates investment in Serbia's benefits of the republic. I, in my time as a national MP, was involved in reading the budget, so, for example, in all the budgets from 2001 to 2012 I read that the amount of three and a half billion dinars is spent under a special programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia without any criteria, without any legal constraints. That's why we came as far as we came. A lot of money was spent on the alleged foreign investment without any effect. There were stories here, lists of various factories and plants, foreign investments, purchased Hemofarm from privatisation. Foreign investment, purchased brewery from privatisation. Selling property for someone is a foreign investment. What are you guys talking about? Investments that bring money are those investments that create new jobs. That's real investment. Everything else, I already have, I already have those workers, I already have that production. They just changed their ownership relations. But now I ask the question where were these criteria when budgets were spent that weren't foreseen by law, and now they're foreseen by law? Discrimination must exist if you want to get to an investor who will open new jobs for you. It's just, unlike your discrimination, this law is regulated. You know exactly what's allowed and how much is allowed and what are the limits and I don't know what you expect. You want the National Assembly to enforce that law. He can't, so why do we have a government? You say - the discretionary right of the government. It is not discreetly correct that it is regulated by law, it is true that restrictions are given from-to unlike the budgets brought by Bozidar Djelic, for one time Mladjan Dinkic and Dijana Dragutinović and Cvetkovic. At the time, you didn't ask what program the government was spending money on, but now you knew you were remembering it. If it's a car projection, I don't know. In this government, I have confidence because it works by law and we have laid down a legal framework for this government that it can have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37596	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You don't have this right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Can I explain? ) The same applies to Mr Djukanovic, who also thought he was misread, but has no right to replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: It was directed directly to us. I'm sorry you recognized yourself, I couldn't recognize you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Article 14 speaks of customs release of the subject of roles and we are, and he says that the import of equipment representing the role of a foreign investor within the meaning of this law is free and exempt from paying customs duties and other import duties other than passenger motor vehicles and machines for fun and gambling. He then says that the government is closer to determining the procedure, altitude and deadline for making concessions and release from customs and other duties on imports of a foreign investor from the 12th article's position. We added that imported equipment from Article 1 of this Article can only be used for the purposes for which it is imported. All that would be fine if there were no Article 3rd point 5th sub v), I think, which says that under a foreign investor there is also a Serbian citizen who has stayed abroad for a minimum year and when he comes and invests money, probably from abroad, then he is free to pay customs, and there we have a little disputed Mr. Minister and I, because I asked how equal it is to have both domestic and foreign investors if foreign investors whether they have, that our citizens working for a minimum year abroad, I don't know who makes such money for a year to invest, but good. To accept as possible. He has the right to import equipment that he will use in production without customs, as well as a real foreign investor, I mean a stranger, and our investors who apply for incentive funds, have no right to be released from customs and are then in an unequal position, and we use the budget funds of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, you said that you would do it by some sublegal act or regulation of the government to solve it, but couldn't you say that all those who use the government's incentive funds to create new jobs and plants were freed from customs on equipment and then really would all be evened out. This way, we will have domestic investors who are applying for incentives even though they are entering some production and need import equipment, they will pay customs and all taxes and we will have a foreign investor who does not pay customs duties for imports and equipment to be produced in Serbia and we will have citizens of Serbia who have been staying over the border for a year and invest funds so that they can free customs and tax on imports of equipment. I ask what kind of law signifies the rights of domestic and foreign investors? If that is what you really want, then say that all those who use the incentive funds of the Republic government, i.e. The Republic of Serbia, which is covered by this law, is free from customs and tax duties on imports of equipment and will then really all be in the same competitive one, the initial status, that all have the same rights and obligations. This way, our investors will be subordinated because their investment will be more expensive for customs and tax, so that their product will also be more expensive and will be less competitive for the 20%. I think this is meaningful and you can intervene, because if you really advocate it and don't favor someone, I assume you're being honest with what you're saying, let them all have the same rights and the same obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37598	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37599	In the Republic of Serbia's budget for the economic classification of 715, 29.200,000 is based on customs duties. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is 924 billion, and the first time in 30 years, the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be without budget renewal, i.e. rebalancing. I ask you - how much is the customs duty on imports of equipment from EU countries, EFTA and other countries that are on free practical imports to the Republic of Serbia? Since imports and customs are at 0%, then domestic producers buying equipment from EU countries, EFTA does not pay any customs. That's the essence of the whole story you should have recognized when you looked at the customs chief. So, if you buy equipment from EU and EFTA countries, you are automatically freed customs as well as from countries that have special trade relations with Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37600	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37601	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I believe that the minister has so far noticed that we are opposed to the fact that the Government has broad discretion in which it decides itself, governs itself, determines itself, evaluates itself, and that there are no criteria in the law. This is also the case with this member who speaks of customs reliefs and exemptions from customs and other duties. We're doing this because the government has already shown us in the previous period as there in Orwell's farm that all animals are equal, and pigs are more equal than other animals. That's how all investors are equal to you, and some investors are more equal than other investors. We are sitting in a meeting in the Assembly in which these same MPs have passed a series of laws that have changed only because of certain investors. You have declared in this Assembly a public interest in building a pub, shopping mall and hotels, and therefore we do not believe that the Governments of the Republic of Serbia are self-organizing these criteria without them being in the law. This is the same case with investments of particular importance, where the government itself decides on what investments they are. These investments are given state aid without publication of a public call. Short and clear -- we don't believe you're going to do it so your business partners and your friends aren't favored and not because we don't love you or trust you because we're from another party. No, we don't believe it because in this assembly session, this majority, you've already changed the laws so that they favor only individual investors and we think that some investors will again be more equal than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37602	Thank you. Anyone else by amendment? No, I don't. ) At the title of Chapter 4, the name above the member and Article 15, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37603	This article defines investment support entities. So we have investment support entities, the Council of Economic Development and the Ministry of Business Affairs, the Development Agency and units per place. We are asking for an amendment not to be established and to be removed from this law by the Council for Economic Development and the Serbian Development Agency. The Council of Economic Development is a group of ministers, we'll see later, very unusually, because for one minister you don't know what it is, but when that point comes, which should evaluate which investments are of primary importance, which of the secondary ones, which local ones, which are global ones. There are potentially several ministers who could say something about it, the present economy minister, the finance minister. What could Vulin be talking about investment? It's such a big mystic. What this president of the Chamber of Commerce could do, which until he became one, did not go three times alone and buy himself breakfast, let alone that he participated in business activities, and the condition for the president's post is that he was present for 20 years in business activities as a recognised businessman. The third is the newly established head of Serbia's Development Agency. Who knows who's going to happen to us here, whether a little one, whether a "Asamakum" or a third. Anyway, one very cloudy, difficult, complicated situation. Serbia's economy can, with the support of the competent ministry, and this is the Ministry of Economy and Units per place, absolutely have every opportunity not under this law, which is bad, but under the laws that already exist, to get incentives for investment, respecting absolutely all the principles of the economy, Friedman, along with those restrictions it carries in the most liberal states.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37604	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37605	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I advertise Article 107, that is to use offensive expressions. I don't know if, Mr. Chairman, you've listened to the previous speaker, I believe it's exhausting, that such an economic size is difficult to listen to with effort, but he has used several offensive expressions at the expense of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since they are not there, they cannot defend themselves, it is more unacceptable than that the insult is directed to the MPs themselves. No matter what he has a business plan for vineyards, which I believe Rodney and Del Boy wrote, I don't think this kind of insult should be suffered. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37606	Thank you. No comment. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37607	Article 108. It's not the first time Mr. Zivkovic here honors us with offensive expressions. I guess in political blindness and lack of arguments, the only thing left to stay is insults. I don't know which burek qualified him, but I do know that without any professional training, he became a minister in the federal government. I don't know what qualified him to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and even 10, 12 years after that he doesn't know there's a GDP, so he said here -- what is GDP, it doesn't exist, and things like that. I think we can face arguments here, that we can face different concepts and different policies here, but to cross that threshold and get into personal hatred and inventions and insults, I think it's a violation of both the National Assembly and the dignity of the National Assembly, and it's carried out from home education, from home. I know this isn't going to change with Mr. Zivkovic, but I think it's up to you, Mr. Chairman, that you're suggesting things like that, you're suggesting that at least you take away the word, not that the National Assembly is turning into the scene of facing very ugly words, unsuitable for much worse places, let alone for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37608	I'm sorry, Mr. Granny, since I've felt that hate a lot here, I'm trying not to listen very carefully, so I apologize. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I see the support of Minister Sertic has arrived and this is important in this kind of dialogue. I am a little surprised by the intervention of Mr. Zivkovic's speech, which concerns the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, when Mr. Zivkovic, I think, and I see it now and by Mr. Sertic's reaction, very seriously, argued our amendment. We have written this in an explanation, Your Honor, we have finely written that we believe that the excessive establishment of two additional institutions that would deal with the issue of state aid to investors. Plus, we put it like this, Mr. Sertić, I think it's worth the attention, especially when we write laws here, if we carefully observe practices of the like countries, meaning, parallel practice in the countries, but also our own experience, it's evident that according to this model that you are now introducing, that it ends in corruption problems, distortions of competition, Mr. Sertić, and in economic stagnation. I wonder, then – is it appropriate for this kind of remark, which is serious, regarding considering the consequences of some solutions, to intervene here in the Rules of Procedure? We here point to two things that are principled. One is -- it seems to us that by establishing two additional bodies to this occasion, that, Mr. Sertic, it creates conditions for a major disease that we are facing here, and that is party employment, of course, a disease under the circumstances. Foreign employment, there's no person here who didn't say it was some kind of monster. The second thing, since parallel practice points to the growth of corruption by this model, I return you to our initial position that this bill and through this article stimulates the atmosphere of corruption, so I guess we'll fight it, gentlemen, not to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37610	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. You continue the trend of not talking about amendments. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: This is the amendment. If you say so, that's fine. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37611	You have similarly explained your proposal and your idea and it is nothing controversial, you have the right as you have submitted amendments in which you are asking to delete most of the members, somewhere completely in order for the law itself to be practically extinguished, somewhere with a certain sense. However, I have to remind you of a very important fact when you say – establishing new bodies, in order to simply have it very clearly in front of the citizens. First, the body of the Council for Economic Development is a council that forms a government in which I have already named it according to the proposal set out in the law itself. These are three ministers, a very responsible minister and covering three important areas. One is business, the other is finance, the third is employment and labour law. What more important than that in this part of the Investment Act? On the one hand, a representative of the business community, or president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the most responsible man from the Serbian Development Agency. Serbia's development agencies are created for much better operational functioning and work, on the one hand, and with investors, domestic and foreign, on the other hand, to synchronise business and work with local self-government, on the third hand, for good relations and to solve all the problems we have had in the past between different state institutions. A special thing about how you pointed out, adding new bodies and something new, which someone who wasn't sent, in the best way, could understand that now we're starting something new. No, we shut down two existing institutions, shut down SIEPA, shut down the National Agency for Regional Development, and with almost 150 jobs in the state administration, we'll make one much more modern organization, far more efficient, with a completely different business culture, with almost three times fewer jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37612	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37613	Another support for Minister Sertic's words, which is the reduction of both job rationalisation and management posts in those agencies. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Minister, SIEPA has three board members. The National Regional Development Agency has five. That's eight the way it was conjectured and what it looked like so far. Serbia's development agency will have five members of the Management Board, according to work systems and management acts. So, of the two agencies, of the eight board members, we bring in five board members, so how many times is it a month for their receipts, well times a year, times, times, times, there are those savings plus that in the Serbian Development Agency there will be zero dinars for membership on boards. It's also by the number of persons employed, but also by the means hired to pay them, far more savings than it's ever been before. That's why I think we should refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37614	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 16th amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Article regulates the duties of the authorities and the urgency of the conduct. We have amended paragraph 1, by prescribing the public authority's obligation to control the enforcement of the investor's obligations. In fact, the question arises as to how to control the exercise of investor rights by the authorities? On the other hand, we believe that the primary obligation of the authorities to control and implement the obligations of investors, as well as the rights and obligations of the Republic, the province and local self-government, and with regard to investments, and this position of Article 1, which we propose, is that "the authorities are obliged to provide conditions for smooth investment under their jurisdiction, as well as to control the enforcement of the obligations of investors, i.e. the exercise of rights and the exercise of rights and commitments of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, or units of local self-government and investment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37616	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37617	You've just re-formed a member, that is, the position of Article 1st, as already exists. To clarify, we're the ones who put in control. In the last session, I made it very clear what all the frauds were, what was going on, what legal medicines we've done to date, everything we can sanction, but also to commit companies to mandatory control, because if they get some funding from the state, they have to be bound and controlled. In any case, regardless of how formally we do not accept your amendment, the essence is the same and it is very important for all of us that you MPs also support that all companies, regardless of what kind of incentives we have received from those four that we have listed, must give access to their data, so that we as a state can determine whether they behave in accordance with the contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37618	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37619	I thank you, Chairman. Just as the Honorable Minister said, and when it comes to this amendment, I will accept the fact that it is a good motivation of the promoter and a good need to improve the quality of the law. But it's unnecessary here. It is unnecessary for the simple reason that the control of authorities, not just investors, as proposed by the amendment, is regulated by material and legal regulations that are from other legal areas. In particular, from the Law on Administrative Procedure, we also have defined issues relating to control, both in the second degree and in the higher degrees of decision-making, i.e. making appropriate decisions. We already have a defined question when it comes to the control of the authority, and when it comes to investor control, it is already in principle debate, by the motionor, or the minister, pointed out. It would be completely unnecessary, except for the transformation itself, which essentially speaks of the same solution, the same legal solution, to make any changes in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37620	National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Veselinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37621	I mean, the chairman says your concentration is dropping, but I immediately signed up for the word. I expect the minister will accept this amendment to the Turnover Movement this time, although he has so far failed to accept an amendment prohibiting the sale of agricultural land, which allows for clearer application without the corrupt elements of this law. Therefore, the essence of this amendment is to specify the deadline within which the public document required by the applicant is issued. The definition you gave in Article 16 of the proposed law states that it will be issued as soon as possible. That, Mr. Sertice, is relative. The shortest possible deadline for some countries is maybe five, ten days. For you and your government, the shortest possible deadline is in years. You're some things you promised four years or three and a half ago you haven't done yet. So the shortest time limit may mean three and a half years to you, and that is why I suggested adding the word, or saying, “and no later than 15 days. ” That would be quite precise and it would be known that, when the conditions are met, a public document should be issued within 15 days at the latest. That would mean that you accept efficiency in fact, not just in principle. These words, as they are set here, don't have to mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37622	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37623	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected, so amendment to Article 16. And this amendment, as well as several previous amendments from the same promoter, can be seen as completely unnecessary amendments. It's a very mild formulation I've just used. Why are they unnecessary? From the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can see the answer to that question. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that this article defines the urgency of the investment procedure, i.e. the obligation of all public authority holders to resolve such cases immediately, so without delay, as cases with the right of the championship. Then, even, another explanation is added, and he says, which would in any case mean even a shorter period than 15 days. So, the proposer of this amendment asks that we put something into the law that already exists. That's why I characterized him as unnecessary. It's not the first time today. So he's been proposing similar amendments all day. And the amendment relating to a part of the law that does not even treat this law at all, in fact, but rather the Law on Agricultural Land and Amendments, where it requested that the protection of investor's bankruptcy rights be abolished, which, in the best way, illustrates what its relationship to the protection of investor rights, i.e. legal protection and legal certainty of investors. This is all in favor of the fact that I was right when I said that in their time, therefore, they forced investors, or their presence in this topic, by their relationship with them, to help investors not to come to our country. So for all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37624	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37625	I thank the chairman. In view of the fact that the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are explicitly laid down by the Law on Administrative Procedure in the procedures for issuing documents to investors, it is explicitly clear that the procedure is subject to procedural law. In view of the fact that this law contains all the actions of procedural legal action that must be taken from the moment of the submission of the proposal and until the final decision is made, always bound by the deadlines, then the adoption of the proposed amendment would result in a derivation of certain provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, and the reminders of the Administrative Procedure Act relate mainly to the deadlines in eight days, not 15 days. Therefore, I think that in this way, of course, I agree not to accept the amendment, so that in this way the norms that deviate from the essence of the ZUP, or the Law on Administrative Procedure, should be introduced, at least from the point of view of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37626	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37627	Ambassador Neđo Jovanovic described in the best legal way why your amendment cannot be accepted and I will not repeat it. They repeat the essence of the members we have appointed, which is that for investors, the most urgent, the fastest procedure is to issue permits, solutions and all other things in the administrative process. It's an advantage and a big difference compared to that period before, when it could have stood somewhere in drawers, drawers of everyone else, a month, two months, a year or so. Should we mention the famous "Ikeu" we've talked about several times, how long it's been waiting for a building permit and a solution? And she got it within a few weeks, according to the latest law. Such an object that has a large number of its elements that must be aligned. So we can't influence these laws in any way on resolving the deadlines on administrative matters, which are defined by other laws, but we can force all authorities to act urgently and to meet investors in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37628	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37629	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, you have just given one detailed and exhaustive explanation. I will just say that the proposed amendment should not be accepted precisely because the proposed amendment extends the deadline for decision. In particular, Article 16 provides that the competent authority is to act on an urgent procedure, as the government, or the competent ministry, and that it considers that the procedures to be taken to meet investors, whether they are domestic or foreign, should be followed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the urgency of the procedure obliges competent public authorities to adopt certain acts within eight days, which is certainly shorter than what the amendment promoter is asking for, and it requires, a period of 15 days. So this emergency treatment of eight days can be shorter than eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37630	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37631	Only one small addition to what has already been said, which is that the Law on Administrative Procedure or the General Administrative Procedure Act contains a chapter relating to so-called ‘Governmental Procedure’. Emergency procedures. It is, therefore, those standards contained in the ZUP that indicate how and within which time limits to be decided, that is to say, to bring an appropriate remedy, a solution, a conclusion or what the procedural and legal decision implies under the provisions of that procedural law. It's just an additional explanation that by extending the deadlines, it would lead to the derivation of a norm already contained in the law, and for a reason it is fully supported by what is in this proposal of a member of the new investment law, I say a new one because we are introducing it now, introduced as a kind of benefit. Benefita invests as a proposer in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37632	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) To whose exhibition, Mr. Veselinović? (Janko Veselinović, from the town: He was incorrect. ) He did not mention you at any point in his sentence. If you listened carefully to today’s debate, this reporting as a misreader does not have sufficient opportunity for replication. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorović and Jovanovic Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendment gives local self-government units greater autonomy when it comes to measures to promote competitiveness, and besides the possibility to prescribe local reliefs and incentives based on local strategic documents, gives them the opportunity to approve them. Since Serbia is a highly centralised state, and in order to decentralisation, it is necessary to enable local self-governments to decide more independently, especially when it comes to issues that are particularly important for the development of the territory where local self-government is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37634	Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vucković and National MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović. Mr. Kiric, I apologize, since the leaves have been glued, so I haven't read the previous amendment, I'm just going to have to read the previous amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Does anyone want to say that? No, I don't. We return to the amendment I read. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37635	For Article 17(3), our amendment states that item 3 is to be changed and read – the standards of a favourable business environment are prescribed by the Council for Economic Development. So, this amendment decentralised the Council for Economic Development, where the decision on the field of political volunteerism of the minister and the bureaucratic will of staff in the ministry is dislocated in the now partially decentralised Council for Economic Development in the areas of standards, criteria and grant of subsidies. I think the spirit of this amendment is similar to that that Sabine presented just before, and that's the desire to decentralised the decision on such important issues, and that's the question of incentive. We will later in a member who defines the composition of the Council for Economic Development propose to extend the representatives of local self-government, because I think it is important to consider that there will be no payment, because we have heard that there will be a fee for working in that Council of Zero dinars. I think it's important to decentralised him and accept the proposals of a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and expand him with four representatives of local self-government, who know best what local self-government needs. I have proposed to you, Mr. Minister, and in a discussion in the tide, more effective use of existing mechanisms. I think there are also how capable people are at the bar, but I think they are limited by the decisions made by this Assembly because of the limited funds and the increasing transfers and the growing problems in the local budgets. In particular, it will be a difficult situation if they cannot in any way influence local economic development through the work and this Economic Development Council. That is why I also support this previous amendment. Unfortunately, you have not accepted it, but I hope you will accept this, because this will give you a chance to many capable people who run local self-government through their national institution, a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, to be proposed. Once again, it does not bring new costs, but it brings opportunities to get rid of that right that is not good for you either, but neither for a narrow circle of ministers or people who are employed in ministries and make that kind of decision. Give space to more people from Serbia's cities to contribute to better decision-making, with use, I will again mention the SLAP base, which was also worked by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia, together with European institutions, in support and definition of the best projects that exist in Serbia at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37636	I thank you, Mr. Kiriq. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37637	Mr. Kiric, I completely agree with your proposal and I would accept this, the only question is, can the legal council pass a normative act like the standard of business environment? If that is legally feasible, I don't mind the Minister's office transferring this to the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37638	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakić, Milisav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37639	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good proposal and it's a good thing the minister has expressed his wish and will to transfer this intelligence from the Minister to the Council. I will just remind myself that in modern business and defining a good business environment there are certification models and we have them here in Serbia. Some municipalities and towns in Serbia possess these certificates. This has been done in partnership with municipalities and cities both in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and the environment for the past few years. It is not bad that with the help of NAED and such organizations, of course the Ministry, but also local self-government, we come up with this unified aspect and model of what the municipality or city needs, or local self-government, to meet to obtain a certificate of good municipalities or a city that has a favourable business environment and that has all the conditions for it. We have very good examples in Serbia, but we also have very good examples in Croatia. I'll just mention the town of Ivanec with 16,000 inhabitants. My fellow vice president of the Croatian Parliament is the president of this municipality. They only have 12 employees, but very well and quality do their job according to the budget they have. They also have an investment so that it is possible to define good standards and certifications for a good business environment with a good job organisation. As far as our amendment is concerned, I think we're here, Mr. Minister, helping you just don't have to deal with standards and qualifications for employees of local-economic development offices. It's supposed to be on local self-government. That's where you did well, in my opinion, you opened the space for them to compete with each other, to race in it. This is who and what personnel will hire in these offices, whether they will make a partnership with chambers of commerce and reach the best possible solutions in investment, depends ultimately on them, and on us as representatives of parliament, the best possible framework, which is what you have proposed and is, so that we can create an environment for them to race and attract investment in the free market. This goes in favor of us wanting to open a competition match between local self-governments, cities, municipalities in the region, and here amongst individuals. My proposal would be to, in collaboration with the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, suggest that the selection of these personnel is in line with the best practice of human resources management, recruitment procedures, selection, motivation, management performance and, ultimately, we will see how the operation of "Delivery Unit" will be shown to bring it down potentially and locally, since I am deeply convinced that something that works in both the World Bank and Canada and in many other developed countries, and it has started to work with us, and when it goes down to a lower level, at a local level. I thank you once again, and I think this is a fair discharge for you as minister to do strategic matters and to open up space for local self-government to race whether the best staff will engage in their offices for local economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37640	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać... (Goran Ciric, from the post: I have answered for a word under this amendment. Mr. Kiric, you've been in the system this second, this second now. It's late. I've already moved on to the next amendment. You must listen carefully, please. (Goran Ciric, from the scene: I answered in time. If you'd called, you'd be in the system. The moment I moved on to the next amendment, no one was in the system. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Good can you give me your word.) I don't know why you don't give me your word. Well, I didn't expect you to answer the amendment that was adopted, so I don't understand now. And now you're asking me to go back to the old amendment. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Give me your word and you will understand. I can't do it right now. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 18 speaks of complaints about the work of the authorities, and he says – if the authority does not act in accordance with Article 16 of this law, the investor can appeal to the development agency of Serbia. Serbia's development agency is obliged to state immediately after the complaint was received the complaint in the complaint and take action from its jurisdiction in order to remove the complaint against the work of the authorities. Serbia's development agency is obliged to notify investors of the 2nd article's actions within 15 days of the day the complaint is filed. The provision of this member shall not apply to procedures under the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia concerning the establishment and operation of banks and other financial institutions. We suggested that this member be deleted. Now I'm going to give you an explanation. The work of the public authorities as a control of the work of the authorities was governed by the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Dispute. The control of public authorities shall mean the control and legality of their conduct and control of the integrity of their conduct. In the framework of administrative supervision, the control of legality and celery shall be carried out directly by a senior authority of the administration, and the control of legality may be carried out by the court in the administrative dispute, for example. Therefore, the exclusive standard given by the bill's promoter is contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Development Agency is not a state body, and in this regard it cannot exercise control, or control over the work of the authorities. The Agency shall be formed to carry out development, professional and operational activities, etc. and overseeing her work is done by the Ministry. Therefore, it cannot be given the role of the governing body. Article 18. The bill derogates with it a whole system of state administration and introduces illegal control of public authorities at a small door. If they were to be entrusted as public authority to the public administration’s affairs, otherwise under the law on public agencies and possible, such transactions could be entrusted to the law enforcement business and other general acts to the National Assembly and Government by issuing and public documents and keeping records as well as solving in the first instance in administrative matters. So, no surveillance. I ask you to accept our amendment, because what the lawyers have told me is that the institution of complaints in our legal system is still not as adequate as you suggest it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37642	Thank you, Mr. Bradic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37643	There is no way we can accept the expropriation of Article 18 because it just wanted us to initiate the right of investors to quickly, effectively carry out the procedures in which they appear in front of state authorities. So the Serbian Development Agency can't take over the work, but it can initiate supervision of certain authorities. It's essential for us to meet investors so that if a state body doesn't do its job in the time it's scheduled, it doesn't have to go to administrative dispute, so it can sue the state, because we don't have anything. It is important for us to have the company start working as soon as possible, for people to get their jobs and in this direction, we have given Serbia's Development Agency the right to immediately start talks with all participants in a process that is not completed and, if it finds reasonable reasons afterwards, you will see in other members how it has been defined to give the competent ministry a proposal to start monitoring the work of a particular body of administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37644	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I don't think you're right, and I think it's much better that the ministry is doing its job, but you're proposing this law, you're going to answer for it, so all of what we're proposing, we know you won't accept gro, but you have your political views and your political vision, but this is what we're proposing and discussing in this as a possible alternative to how you imagined this law. So just give us a chance to explain our attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37646	Thank you. Replica, Minister Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37647	I don't think anyone has made it impossible for you to explain your political views, but my political position and the position of the SNS whose member I am is to allow investors the fastest, most efficient, best processes in our country. Only for that reason is Article 18 and written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37648	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I think this will be another accepted amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party and the fourth during today's debate, although at the beginning of our session, it seemed as though no amendment would be accepted. Here is what we have proposed in Article 18, Minister Sertic refused, and I guarantee now that after this speech, Minister Sertic will accept this amendment as well. We propose that in Article 18, after the word "this law" one is inserted, gentlemen. We noticed one thing, that there are usually two empty letters in this place, which means there must have been an idea that someone would respect the rules of the Serbian language. With some form of circumstances or intent, I don't know now, the stuck is gone, there are two empty letters, one of which we are running for Mr. Sertic, as a sign of the interpuntion stuck. I'd like to say one more thing about this amendment to Article 18 here. First of all, to our fellow Members and colleagues here, dear gentlemen, we keep saying here that the National Assembly is a place of dialogue. The place of debate, that in this sense is our central political institution, and this debate today during which we persuaded Minister Sertic to accept now, I think four amendments, and at the beginning he said he would not accept any, shows one thing, that dialogue is worth, respected gentlemen, that our debate here is worth as much as possible and that we need to use the time for dialogue in our National Assembly, to focus on the general good, respected gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37650	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37651	Your Honor, I'm glad to tell you that we will accept your amendment and it will be the fourth one we accept yours. Unfortunately, more of these dots are stuck and more, but good and that is your contribution to this. What I still prefer is that by changing this attitude, you have in this way established a good idea of article 18, so you did not want to derogate the idea of article 18, thereby confirming all the good intentions of the Serbian government with a proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37652	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37653	Thank you, Minister, for understanding the need for this amendment, stuck. We did not view this article as so bad that we intervened on it in a different way than on many others. It is true that there are several members of the law here who are tolerable, mildly said good, they could pass. Generally, the whole law is unnecessary. But if it's like some government's declarative position on investment, we can figure it out. Generally, he's going to change a lot of things for the good, and I think we'll agree that there's not a lot of opportunities here and because of the general economic situation in the environment around Europe, around us. Investments have fallen everywhere, there are no special motives for investors to invest in Serbia, nor in the whole region, no matter where they are stimulated. But some better investment times have been missed and we'll agree on that for sure. First of all, I mean 2004, 2005, and 2008, 2009, when economic boom marked, above all, Europe, and the whole world, and when there was more chance of one of the big investors investing in us. Two thousand fourths and fifths were spent searching for the first three years of privatisation, which, of course, ended in total defeat because there was nothing to investigate and judge, or anything like that, and there was no justification for 2008, 2009, 2010, why the investments were less. No matter what the economic crisis began then, many promised that the crisis would be a stimulant for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37654	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37655	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr Pavicevic does not miss an opportunity to point out this way, "poisonal political arrows" at the expense of the SNS parliamentary group. Here, in the third term, I am a People's MP and believe me, Mr. Minister, for the first time I've heard someone submits an amendment to the letters. But here, it looks like it's possible. This submission of amendments to letters reminded me of an Arab philosopher named Alpha Rabbi, who was said to have been largely in love with Aristotle's philosophy and with Aristotle's work, said that Alpha Rabbi Aristotle's poetry had read 40 times, and the famous Aristotle's work "Political" 200 times, and that he felt no oversatisfaction. Then the famous 19th - century German philosopher Hegel wrote an easy sentence for this Arab philosopher who says: “He must have had a good stomach. ” Believe me, for amendments like this, where amendments are submitted to letters, I believe that my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, and you, Mr. Minister, must have a good stomach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37656	Unfortunately not, Mr. Pavicevic. I don't understand those poison arrows. I find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment, and in the day of the vote, we will come forward. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Thank you. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37657	This article concerns the conduct of local and economic development and investment support units and I will read, for the sake of my colleagues and for the sake of the public. Therefore, in the first position of this member it is said – the local economic development and investment support unit provides professional assistance and support to the investor in the realisation of investments if the investor asks for it in accordance with Article 16 of this Act. Item 2 which is, in our opinion, controversial – the grant contracts provided by the AP budget with the investor are concluded by the AP authority. We don't mind the content of attitude two, but we don't think he belongs here. I'd just like to remind you that the name is above article 19. – the conduct of units for local economic development and investment support, and we propose to delete attitude 2 since it is obviously wrongly located. In addition, we have proposed, by amendment to Article 13, a solution to the granting of incentive funds provided by the AP budget, with the investor, by the competent authority of the AP. So properly located for this norm. We've been following some of our logic, and that's why we don't think this attitude here is the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37658	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37659	There's obviously a legal interpretation here again, not a fundamental thing, and you said it yourself. And I thank you for that. The original text of the law was set up to be such that in Article 13, paragraph 13, it was defined that the AP authorities sign contracts for the funds they give, however, when we were corrected and given opinions, we were asked to insert this article, that is to say, into the existing Article 19. It is important that essentially we have defined that the province authorities can conclude their contracts, that they are defined here and simply remain in our position, given the position of the Serbian government's legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37660	Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37661	Article 20 defines the tasks of the local and economic development unit and already exists. There are regional development agencies and they do the same job, by supplementing it here with what we particularly disagree, which is separation, differentiation of investments from those that are important, less important and irrelevant. Again we have, this isn't just a language, this is a really big problem. Now I'm going to read you your first attitude. So – the business of local economic development and investment support units for investments of local importance is carried out by the local economic development unit. So, the work of the local economic development unit is done by the unit, so, of course, who else will? It's a completely pointless structure, and then there's still a part of it. Next – through your employees and appointed persons. Of course, someone should be employed or appointed to do so, provided that knowledge and experience can provide professional help to an investor. Who determines these conditions? How can we know who has knowledge and experience that can be given to an investor and not to anyone, but to one who is of particular interest. Now we already have these local or you, regional development agencies and they do, some do good, some do bad, some just spend money, and some do something serious, like Zajecarska and, I think, she does good, and this Niska, she tries something, and some exist just to spend money. This, especially with this definition, that the unit's work for it, does the unit, becomes completely pointless, so that this whole member is excess and defines something that is either logically already defined in a natural way or this definition becomes complicated. Therefore, I ask you to consider abolishing this attitude and a dramatic change in what this member should contribute to the law itself. We have made amendments – it is deleted, on all the following members, because each of them is in the same system, and I will discuss it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37662	Time. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the argument made by Mr. Zivkovic, I would like to add two more things. One thing is, be careful how we have today a debate that stems from a vision of a system of ideas of values that advocates people who perform on behalf of a party. We, for example, advocate gentlemen and this is clearly seen in this amendment by such a state that will have clear powers, small ones, but also in those areas where there are certain responsibilities, Mr Sertic, to be a very strong and strong state. Then we noticed that you also want to announce that it may be your view, but that you seem quite the opposite. Here, Mr. Sertić, to show in market processes, for example, comes from this view of the world from our system of ideas, beliefs and values in market processes, the state should be neutral, and this is not what it is. Plus, Mr Sertic, if the state distributes state aid, it must be equally available to all economic operators, not linked to their economic power. Then the content of such an amendment can be treated I think, as one consistent action of politicians in a modern understanding of politics. Well, I guess we're looking for some modernity, too, gentlemen. That's where I come to a second argument, where I don't understand, for example, Mr. Martinovic, who, as far as I understand it, says he's read Aristotle's policy more times than Al Farrabi himself, but now he can't remember that Aristotle, for example, and in politics, has claimed that a key criterion for directing to general good, exactly respect for law, respected gentlemen, and in this bill we have a problem with the rule of law, Mr. Martinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37664	Time. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37665	You have launched one very important topic in this amendment of yours to delete the entire article 20 and talk about competition, about the market, about the need for the state administration to behave in the same way, but with the amendment itself, you have denied yourself. Now I'll explain why. First of all, they don't have all the local units, so we don't have a local economic development unit everywhere. We don't have a Chamber of Commerce everywhere, we don't have a Regional Development Agency anywhere, we don't have people dressed and trained enough to do it, and it's crucial for us to have in every local self-government name and last name of a responsible person who will be responsible for realising projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia, but also projects of local importance when we talk about investments. As a result of all of this, we have made a small competition between the players at the bar, so by authorising or asking local self-government in accordance with the law under which they operate, by not imposing new rules or new employment, or any new costs, they only define who it is to their local self-government to do the job. So this job could be for a six-month term, two years, three years, as local self-government determines. All that matters to us is that within the entire institutional system, investment is attracted to us in a place in each local self-government, a responsible person or a responsible body, who will do business in a way that is foreseen by positive legal regulations. And that way, by introducing a market element, we're going to create a competition, so if there's a local office somewhere, and it doesn't do its job well, the local self-government unit is going to replace it, and not like now we've had a situation to determine someone and that someone when they get all the rights can do it indefinitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37666	Thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37667	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to our amendment, which we have submitted to Article 20 of the bill, I will just point out the support of Minister Sertic and this is one of the basic intensities of this law to develop a competition. It is true that we do not have in every municipality, every local self-government office for local economic development, unfortunately we do not have a Chamber of Commerce. Where conditions exist, the Office for Local Economic Development will work somewhere in chambers or their units, which is good, they are not state institutions, but in this way we create one additional trust and give opportunity to institutions such as chambers of commerce and business associations, why not or the Union of Employers if they have their own branch or other business association, which has the capacity, which has knowledge or people who have the expertise to work with investors and to enforce the law. So, full support, this includes all the players needed to make investments real and attract them in the full capacity. As far as Aristotle is concerned, he just said that the state can pursue the greatest good but only if all people seek this greatest good, so I expect all fellow MPs, all MPs support something that is so good and this law that will, in any case, contribute to the business environment in our country being as good as possible, which is best quality, to attract as much, but of course, the best and most qualitative investments, investment with a spilling effect. I heard a little before foreign direct investment didn't create jobs. If it's not created by Johnson Electric, General Electric, the great best companies that bring new technologies, new knowledge, new management approach, which are just creating conditions that our young people are the most qualified, most educated employees, then I don't know, then we've missed both the science and the time we live in, and maybe those who insist on it, and I'll remind you that big developed countries are just baseing their growth and developmental sides on direct investment. A great China based them on U.S. investments, Korea as well, so you mentioned a little before Singapore. If those aren't examples for us, then I don't know who they are, but I think you and I are all on the right track together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37668	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37669	I'm using the time of an authorized parliamentary group. Since I didn't get a word last time on the amendment accepted by the minister, here's another accepted amendment, but I think we should take an integrated view of that previous amendment that you announced you would accept in that attempt to decentralised the approach in terms of development. I think it's extremely important, and it's only coming to us that a member will form or talk about forming a council on economic development to expand with, we have proposed four presidents or four representatives of local self-government on a proposal for a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. I think it's extremely important to make an approach for you to invest in your ability, especially the mayor and president of the municipalities. It seems that we are adopting some solutions that follow the situation on the ground and are constantly talking about the insufficient capacities of certain local self-government, the lack of agency for local economic development or insufficient professional people in local self-government. I think that's where we're wrong, and somehow, that's where it's wrong to approach. I think it's important to insist on good practices and to force the participation of people, mayors who have made success in their environments. We need to start with these successes and give these people a chance. Such an example is the local self-government in Uzic, led by Jovan Markovic since 2008 or Indjia with Goran Jesic or Paracin, Sabac, Svilajnac and some other cities that can be praised, of course there are more, but can be praised for good practices. That's why I'm talking about all the resources and databases that need to be used and invested in local self-governments that don't have enough capacity, not by adapting institutions that will support this development, because, for God's sake, we have a bad situation in 90% of local self-government right now. I agree it's a bad condition, but I think the reverse approach is much more logical. That is why I really suggest that you adopt that previous amendment, as well as a future amendment to expanding the council with representatives of local self-government. You've accepted this amendment, but I think it's very important to have that kind of view that we don't adapt solutions, once again I say to bad local self-governments and bad governance of local self-government, because from that we'll only spread bad practices. Let's make solutions that will respect good practices, even if there are 10%. I'm confident we're in this situation right now, precisely because of the lack of competence of people who often didn't even come to what they entered, accepting the leadership of local self-government as presidents of municipalities or mayors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37670	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37671	Respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, this 20th in their first position, have tried to explain what is being said here, but just once again to give a brief review. It says – the local and economic development and investment support units for investments of local importance are carried out by local and economic development units. It is further said – through its employees or appointed persons, i.e. chambers, associations or associations. My suggestion is to put an end to it here. Your follow-up sentence goes on, and it is said – provided that knowledge and experience, once again I say knowledge and experience, this person can provide professional help to the investor. So I think this formulation is very controversial. My motive, ladies and gentlemen, to propose this amendment is precisely about your discussion and the Committee, somewhat and in principle debate, I will tell you only on the case of Užica, where we had the Office for Local and Economic Development, which had three employees, who worked from 2008 to 2012, on about 40 projects, Deep, Heat, Streets, Pool, Stadium, Free Zone, Customs and many other jobs. With the arrival of an overcompensated team of authorities in 2012, 15 people were employed in the office, and those who worked until that day were fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37672	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37673	Here is the question – who prescribes knowledge and experience?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37674	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You're out of time. You can't talk for over two minutes, you don't have time. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37675	I think we're talking about the same piece again, only you're going to politics a little bit more, since you've had your experiences at the bar, but it's very important for us to keep this attitude as it is, because it defines what you're asking to be deleted – provided that knowledge and experience can provide professional help to the investor. How else can we provide professional assistance if we do not define that those working persons have these competences and knowledge? In case it happens that some municipality from different, completely irrelevant, now at this point, the reason, can't provide that, we also predicted in another position the possibility that two or more units of local self-government could jointly form their own local office for economic development. So we've opened up a complete space, not even entering a commanding relationship with local self-government, so, based on the law that already exists and the competence that local self-government does, that from its employees or associations, associations, chambers, you've listed everything well, they can provide persons who want to work. I repeat, we have a problem with the efficiency of the administration, the administration from the republican level to the local level. So I'm equally critical of everything and the businessmen are equally complaining about everything. My job is to protect the economy and to allow such conditions for businessmen to have full service at all times and in any case. That's why we put this member in place, and that's why we insist that people who work in local self-government units, and do these very important jobs here, have certain skills and competences.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37676	Mr. Markovic, there's no reason for me to give you a replica. You didn't mention it once. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was misread. If you've been following today's debate, that's not enough. I can't give you my word. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37677	By amendment. Just to point out my satisfaction, because for a long time in Parliament and in public life, I have not heard such a statement that it is the minister's task to protect the economy. This is exactly the new approach we want to make together when it comes to the Ministry of Economy's behaviour, and when it comes to investors, whether domestic or foreign, and when it comes to inspection supervision. And it shows that we are completely changing our approach to businesses and what we have said, through this sentence, where Mr. Markovic may be in some way right, that it should be understood that these positions are being placed by the best, the best, the best people, but in any case, we are simply in a situation that we have to specify and keep in mind the representatives of local self-government, in order to bring to those places that are key to the best, best-quality people, because it is the survival of some local self-government and municipalities in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37678	Here you are, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Marinkovic has given you a replica since he mentioned your name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37679	It is not essential whether Mr Marinkovic mentioned it or not. I told you in the opening part of my presentation that I have a good intention of perhaps helping the minister think about this idea. Of course I am in favour of that principle to establish knowledge and experience as one of the key parameters why someone will start working in that place where he should work, especially on such important jobs. But here the question arises – how, Minister, do you expect in local administrations, both you and the prime minister and many other people in this country to say that they are being misrun, that you have very few projects, that you have people who have not understood their roles and who should now determine someone who is that level of knowledge or experience in order to run some jobs? So I'm opening a topic to move this out of the law because you're going to be in a position or you're going to fire hundreds or maybe a thousand people from some jobs they're working on right now, or this concept is going to fall on you. So, if we stand for this principle, then we have to open up the question of whether the presidents of the municipalities, whom we claim to be bad, will also determine the staff who will be employed in these offices? Is it possible, then, to expect it to be successful? Well, of course not. Can we expect people who have shown for three years how unprofessional and staff to carry certain jobs now to determine and manage some projects at their local level? That's the topic we need to talk about. If 90% of the president of municipalities and mayors in the last three years of their work, if they have confirmed that they do not know how to run local administrations, then it is impossible to expect them to determine who it is or who is experienced to run certain jobs and projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37680	Thank you. You have to understand that no matter what you're up to, someone else doesn't. I cannot rank MPs and rules of the Rules of Procedure for all. But I will be very happy to give you the right to a replica when the conditions are met. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable ministers, for the sake of truth, should be told that when we spoke at all about the presidents of municipalities and cities, or people who run local self-government, and when one thought was made by Mr. Minister that these representatives were not men to deal with the business in the way that they should, the main thing was that most of these presidents of the municipality had no awareness of how important it was to have investors, or investors. There was this mirror that, as I say, their inability to have awareness of it, because surely half of them feel that they should deal with the administration and say that it is not their job, that this work should be done by the Ministry, the Development Fund, the current agencies that so far existed, the SIEPA, the NAR, and that is why it was the minister's position when he spoke of incompetence. Now, one concept to be essentially introduced, and I think that in the last three years, results show what the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors were doing. The results are viewed through the budget, through the opening of new jobs, through the ability to quickly reform local self-government with employees, to be prepared to do this kind of work. As a result, perhaps Mr. Markovic's intention was also the best, I don't think it was well done in the formulation itself. If you delete this amendment, as you wish, provided that knowledge and experience can provide professional help to an investor, you are practically cut off the possibility that in some underdeveloped municipalities, and there are 40 which the state recognises as undeveloped, you do not have a man who will be able to give adequate information and do something with investors, whether they are domestic or foreign. You simply then simply point out that it must only be an association or an exclusive chamber, that simply local self-government will not have any maneuvering space to talk to those investors. Then where do investors naturally come in? They report to the Development Agency, the Ministry, the Government, as they have written so far. They report to local self-government, but they also write to the republican level. Now somewhere, that first contact is allowed to be with local self-government and that's how it should be. That's why I don't think this amendment is acceptable in that part, but I think your intentions were really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37682	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Markovic, just tell me on what basis? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I am mentioned. Did you mention Mr. Markovic? (Alexandra Tomic, from the post: I am in a positive context. It's okay. You have the right to a replica. Here you go. (Alexandra Tomic, from town: In a positive context. () Regardless, it's enough to mention it. He's entitled to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37683	Dear Chairman, I really invite you to join in first, and I think it's okay to follow this part of the discussion, the topic is very important. With this question, I wanted to essentially open this concept regarding the relationship between regional agencies, local administrations, offices, etc. Mrs. Tomic understood my intention well, but I think her approach was wrong, that is to say, an attempt to explain the minister's opinion, and she simply confirmed with her claims what I was saying in the previous period and accepted and recognised the fact, as she said, that most of the presidents of the municipalities and mayors in the previous three years were completely under the wrong assessment, that they did not know their jobs, that they were not working, except to manage their local administrations, anything at bringing investments. We've been saying that for three years. We believe that this concept regarding the transfer of power in Serbia was very bad and what was in this discussion is practically confirming the idea. My proposal was to avoid, in some ways, the possibility that people who had done nothing in the previous three years, as presidents of municipalities and mayors, would now determine the level of knowledge and experience of those who should lead projects. It's just not good and it's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37684	I don't know when it's okay. Now that I'm meeting you and it's enough for me to mention your name and name, even though it's not in a negative context, I'm giving you a replica and you're rebelling again. I don't understand what I'm supposed to do. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. You're mentioned by Mr. Markovic. You have the right to a replica, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37685	Mr. Chairman, I think it is necessary that you really always clarify some of the dilemmas that exist, and obviously there are dilemmas and abuses of words and sentences from the context. The results will show who worked and how he worked. Surely Paracinska Glasslara is not an example showing the rule that where some representatives of the opposition were, it is a model of how to work in Serbia, because you simply owe Serbia a complete budget with large debts and then you are some successful mayor or president of the municipality. So that's not the model we should be working with at all, and that's what Minister Sertic wanted to show us today. There is no way at all that you will say that Mr Sertic has stated on the board that all of them are incompetent, in that part when we talk about foreign direct investment. He simply spoke about the awareness of political actors about what it takes to develop the economy, and the final court will give Serbia's citizens. They'll have local elections, they'll say what power they've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37686	Thank you. Now you don't, unfortunately. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: Do I have the right to reply?]] On behalf of the 21st and member of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37687	We're finding out why these local units are being founded. The 21st member said that the local and economic development unit, support for investments, is obliged to keep a record of investments of local importance and to inform each new investment to the Serbian Development Agency. You really think it makes sense in the 21st century to do it that way? You probably know that there is an APR – Agency for Business Registers. I think you know that every new firm, which is due to investments, or changes in some status in the company, the owners are recorded in the APR. Since there are no 58 investments per day, but in some municipalities there have been no investments for several years, there is another normal way to do so. Second, what about those famous fast-track offices? Isn't that founded? It was one of the pre-election promises as early as 2012, so my mother, well, here's the first time in history. That's not gonna happen. Now these units are going to come down to the situation that in some unfortunate office there, a half-dark sits there, say in the King, let Jelena or Tristenik or Nis some May or some Peter in Žitište and hits the lines who will come with some investment. It's the development mission of this law. Of which you think you make a much more favourable atmosphere in Serbia for foreign investment, by making someone register investment at local community level, and possibly still classifying them into those of national importance, regional importance or local importance. An entire member of the law is committed to it. It's about the senselessness of this law. It's all there already. It's all already on record. There's no problem with the records, there's a problem with the lack of investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37688	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Honored Minister Sertic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I think Mr. Zivkovic well explained our amendment to Article 21, but I now have one supplement that we have come up with together, and regarding this amendment. Look out, at the local level, gentlemen, there is no investment that should enjoy privileged status. That's our attitude, Minister Sertice. I think today's debate, as long as it lasts, and by dawn, it's good, because I think it shows citizens and we here that we would come up with a different life together in the community when we have a chance to do it. For example, Minister Sertic, and this member of this bill, you say that the economic power of investors should affect both the treatment of investors and investments, and we believe that the economic power of investors should not affect the treatment of investors or investments. The other thing is, you think big companies should be favored against the little ones that remain unprotected, Mr. Sertic, and we don't think it should be like that. The consequence of your approach to Mr Sertić is that you will help both the bad and the worse, and you forget Mr Sertić that philosophy, the economy ahead of politics means that the economy is progressing by the bad and the worse going down, Minister Sertić, and those who are successful go ahead. I think that, after what, seven, eight hours of debate today clearly, what terrible shortcomings of your approach are obvious if we want to interpret the content of this bill. Well, let's not agree to that, Minister Sertic, there's still time. Not just for those four amendments, all of our amendments to accept Mr. Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37690	Time, thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37691	First of all, the Agency for Economic Registers does not record investments. The Agency for Business Registers records newly established companies, changes in status and everything else. I was among the first sentences two days ago here in the assembly, in front of all the MPs, saying what I was looking for the day I became a minister. From day one, I asked you to give me a list of investments in the state. It took me three months for professional services to work eight hours a day to determine where the contracts were, what was defined in the contracts, that every contract we found was being read, and then some of them we looked for in the safes, according to SIEPA's budgets, ministries, etc., to find out because it didn't exist. There was no record, there was no obligation for any state authority to do anything. You are now criticizing us for introducing order. I'm proud that we're introducing order. Another thing, what has happened so far is that the investor, now we're talking about protecting the state, comes to local self-government, local self-government gives him land or give him some other kind of incentive, and then he parallels himself to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and he's looking for some incentives, and he doesn't say he's already got land from local self-government. It's all happened in all the years backwards. And we say we want to go to the EU, and the EU very clearly and precisely defines what state aid means. State aid implies the accumulation of all the incentives you get in a particular country, so both from locals and from the province and from the republican authorities. In order for us to have it all in one place, we need to have precise and clear records. So, they're not a problem with the Serbian Development Agency records, they're the problem with the local records, and that's exactly what defines it. How would you describe it plasticly? It would mean as in one company if management would now make a decision and say – the more magician who receives the entry goods don't have to count the goods, no more screws, no more wheels, nothing at all, so what does it matter we'll somehow put together our product at the end and sell to someone. This is inadmissible and we are trying to do business and local self-government units and republican authorities in the best practices of management and world standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37692	I thank you, Mr. Sertice. Dear People's MPs, let me inform you that from this moment on, we are no longer in direct transmission. It's due to be transferred tonight. Mr. Zivkovic, do you want a replica? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Yes. I'm trying, but I can't find a basis. Here, I'm trying, but it's not worth it. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37693	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I just want to clarify what this is about the Office for Local Economic Development and what it is about. What is foreseen in the Investment Act that we are talking about today is the secondary activity of the Office for Local Economic Development. The primary activity is existing businessmen and investors who already exist in these municipalities and cities, and of course promotion of investments, promotion of potential and capacity in these local self-governments and management of potential projects. What I would like to support and why we support the strengthening of these offices for local economic development and to take over the burden of this job, because there is not enough, and it really isn't, is the people who have full capacity to work in these offices for local economic development. And that should be noted, and what's very important, we talked about certification for a good business environment, if you don't have an office and if you don't have the best people in that office for local economic development employees, you lose your certificate. And that is why the ministry too, why we also support the certification of municipalities, but in one quality, transparent way according to a model that works, not only here in Serbia, but works in the region, in EU countries, and that is why it is important. And it's absolutely important who sits in those offices and it's not people who list whether someone bought land, whether an investor from the United States or the EU invested there today or shared a salary. That's not the point. Life flows, investment has been in the past few years, so someone has to deal with, of course, with the intensity to promote in the best possible way that local self-government and its potential, but I note that this is the secondary activity of the local economic development office and we need to work together to get these people working in offices, to train and to have constant training, to be competitive with other local self-governments, especially local self-governments in the region that are also fighting for investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37694	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37695	In Article 21, we believe that this is what a member of the law should read – Serbia's Development Agency is obliged to keep records of new investment and investment of local importance. According to us, Serbia's Development Agency, rather than local self-government and in this form and obligation, is primarily committed to transfer to local self-government that has no way of providing financial resources for keeping records. I'm sure it will bring them new administrative technical costs, without the possibility of income. I think you should think about this after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37696	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37697	The moment we have such a large number of investments at the local level that it will increase the costs of local self-government, make sure that me or anyone who sits in my seat will probably come with a bill of amendments. At this point, you are asking us to have the Serbian Development Agency run all these affairs, it will also run the Central Register, but with the necessary help of local self-government. So we refuse your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37698	Thank you. The People's MP, Suzanne Spasojevic, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37699	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I am reporting as authorized in front of the SPS parliamentary group to support the amendment of my colleague, Susana Spasojevic, and I think she was quite clear in her amendment. It requires adding a new position on 2nd -- a unit for local economic development and investment support -- to submit a report on the type, height and scope of incentives to investors at the end of each calendar year to the competent ministry. The explanation given by the government for which the proposed amendment is rejected is that the amendment is not accepted, as the formulation of Article 21 of the bill has already covered the proposed amendment. If they would then return to Article 21, which reads - the local economic development and investment support unit is obliged to keep a record of investments of local importance and to inform the Serbian Development Agency about each new investment. So, I think there may have been a "kopi-paiste" there, if the service hadn't paid good attention, so I'm asking you that maybe it wouldn't be a waste to accept this, because the amendment clearly states what the agency should be doing. It means he's reporting on the type, height and volume of incentives given to investors. Maybe technically it could be improved or complemented, it would be good to predict it, if it wasn't just the point in the record, but there were others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37700	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37701	I thank you, Chairman. I will only refer to the discussion of the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, our friend Dejan Radenkovic. In view of the fact that this amendment has given a very precise formulation, and I ask you, Minister, to bear in mind the fact that it is an imperative standard, this imperative norm indicates the duty of the local and economic development unit to do what is provided for in the amendment that we affirm something that implies no doubt a higher level of quality of law, especially when it comes to the relationship between the local and economic development units to the competent ministry, because without such a formulation, we come into an abstract situation, quite flat, in which a simple unit for local and economic development behaves as it would like. So it can't be accepted, because it doesn't have that kind of autonomy or freedom to act in any other way, except to respect what the norm is looking for, and it's a duty to report precisely on investment incentives and at the end of every calendar year, and of course, to whom else, but to the rest of the ministry. So I ask you to keep this in mind and indeed accept this amendment as one truly high-quality norm that will improve the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37702	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37703	We have foreseen these activities and the jobs of local units, i.e. local and economic development units, their control through the Serbian Development Agency. So they will also be delivered through records conducted by Serbia's Development Agency. I don't mind introducing additional control unless this is contrary to one of the legal norms that define the work of local self-government. It can serve us in the extreme line and as a control of Serbia's Development Agency, which is obliged to deliver reports to the Council for Economic Development as well. So unless we have a legal problem about accepting this amendment, to add attitude 2 to the meaning and text that you have added, I, as Minister, am willing to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37704	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37705	Very short. Dear Minister, I thank you for your understanding. There is no legal problem for the simple reason that the Ministry here is something that implies the top of the pyramid. If we are talking about some roof legal structure, then the Ministry of Justice is obliged to accept what units are for local and economic development, which is to accept all information to make that information clear in all economic and other incentives when it comes to investors. Who else would need it than the Ministry, no matter what the Agency, no matter what other bodies? We're not making any parallelism here, and we don't double any controls here, we're just strengthening what the obligation or duty of the local and economic development unit implies. It's better to have a direct path like the Ministry, than to some other bodies, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37706	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37707	Don't make it look like we're shooting the ministers, we're just gonna stay out of sight. So either it's accepted, or it's not accepted. It's simple, or we could take a break and get a consultation on whether this is technically right or not, so the minister can take it, or not accept it. We don't have another way. If we move on to the second amendment, it's over and the amendment isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37708	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37709	It's hard for me to answer your question directly because I'm not a lawyer and I can't give my interpretation of it. If you guarantee that this is so and we don't have a legal problem, I told you, I'm willing to accept it, but it can be in the legal and technical order to check first and then be included in the law afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37710	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37711	Dear Minister, I respect the fact that you are not professionally verifiable for the assessment of our amendment and the legal acceptability of the amendment, but don't expect us to guarantee it. The guarantee is in the law. After all, the guarantee is in the Government Act. After all, the guarantee is in the Ministry Act. It's these standards, these very system solutions that are attached to someone's jurisdiction, and who's authority is guaranteed whether someone's going to make a mistake or not. There's no mistake here. It's just a standard of a new obligation, a standard of a new duty that binds to a local and economic development unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37712	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37713	I think that's the only problem we can possibly have -- how the legal profession is going to look at the local economic development unit, is it an integral part of local self-government? If she is and in that sense she is being watched, then we can't impose an imperative standard on them. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Just for a little while.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37714	You have time for your MPs' group, so you can spend it. Here you go. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37715	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, we do not want to turn this congregation debate into a controversy that does not lead to anything, but that we are essentially bound to something that can be a good constructive solution. It is your comment that we cannot avoid that you are right about the status of the unit for local and economic development, but we also have a whole other focus of observation. Here is the duty of notifying, the duty to provide certain information, the duty to provide certain information. It has absolutely nothing to do with the status of a local and economic development unit in relation to local self-government, so those two things can't be evened out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37716	I apologize, Mr. Markovic, but you have no basis whatsoever, because you are not mentioned in any way by either Mr. Jovanovic or Mr. Radenkovic, and especially by Mr. Minister. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37717	Since we have already provided for the keeping of records and the provision of information from the Serbian Development Agency, I guess, according to that analogy, we can also give the obligation to forward the information to the rest of the ministry, so I accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37718	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37719	Just tell me how much time we have from an authorised representative, and how much as a parliamentary group, just for a reminder.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37720	You've got enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37721	How much time do we have, Vice President?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37722	You have plenty of time, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37723	I beg you, I've asked very precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37724	Thirty minutes, so you have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37725	Please tell me exactly how much time we have for an authorised representative and how much time we have as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37726	You have 22 minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37727	As in authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37728	It's like a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37729	And as in authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37730	And as authorized, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know it couldn't be 22 minutes, because as an authorized total you have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37731	I wasn't following, Vice President. I'm just taking the opportunity to thank Minister Sertic, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37732	You're very funny. Thank you. I find that the government's representative has accepted the amendment and MPs will declare this amendment in the Election Day. On behalf of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37733	Further complications without need, which is the education of the project team. It says – local self-government units can, at the request of investors, educate a project team to be managed by a person designated by local self-government units etc. for certain investments of local importance. We're re-establishing some ad hoc teams that should already exist, and their goal is through that fast-track office, which has been promising us for a very long time, and their goal is to force local self-government authorities to do their job. Is that what it says here? It means to provide investors, investors with information, documents, permits. Well, why aren't they already doing it? There are laws that are binding on the authorities of local self-government, for the authorities of the province's autonomy and for the state authorities, there are deadlines, there are institutes of silence of the administration, there are inspections that can determine whether someone is doing their job properly or not. There's no reason to invent hot water again and make one impression that there's something going on and that a new mobilization is being created about bringing investors in. Since you've been collecting investment data for three months when you've taken over the portfolio, it would be very interesting to tell us how many investments, say, over the past year, that they've been deployed territorially, whether there are 120 municipalities where there's never been any investment, not ever, but in the last five, six years, whether it's true that they've been concentrated primarily in Belgrade and despite the corridors. Of course it is, it's the natural state of investment, it's how they conquer the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37734	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37735	Ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, as is the order we always have one detailed argument for our amendments, so I will discuss the argument offered by the MP, Mr. Zivkovic, to add another part of the argument, Mr. Sertic. First of all, it seems to me, as we have persuaded you to adopt some amendment to slowly convince SNS MPs that they might vote against this. They're not in the hall, gentlemen. As you can see, Mr. Zivkovic and I represent here a new party in full composition, 100%, this morning of 10 o'clock, nine full hours working here, and there are not a quarter of SNS MPs here, Mr. Sertic. If I were a minister to me, it would be a sign, but I'm glad I'm not a minister in that government, I have to tell you right now. Second thing, Minister Sertice, this is what you're telling us. Here, let's have a little discussion. You're telling us like this, we need to make sure someone's doing a certain job, but for that particular job, there's already someone who should be doing it, and then what do you tell us, Minister Sertic. You tell us who doesn't work, let him keep working, and we'll hire someone else to maybe start working, and that's not a philosophy, Mr. Sertic, which I can support here. Or, Minister Sertić, I must say, by acting and my own, and I am taking this bill directly to the business of some companies, including ours, who are doing a great job. I can now give you an example of the operation of such a company. For example, Mr. Sertić, Nicola Tesla Airport, I know that you now know exactly how a slight sinking of that company is done, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37736	I don't think you understood the essence of Article 22 at all. The government of the Republic of Serbia rejected it, the Committee rejected it, and I cannot accept it now, not because it was not an option, because some members who made sense and your proposed accept it, but the formation and education of the project team at the request of investors and another guarantee that the state authorities would do their job. It is up to us to create a system in which we will force both local self-government and the entire state administration and all state agencies and all the institutions of this country that are formed to do good to the citizens of Serbia, to do their job in the best possible way. We can't force someone with a whip, but we can speed up their performance with legal norms, and that's exactly what this member does.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37737	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer for a word if one of the amendments hadn't been told. Currently, more than 20 MPs are present from the SNS parliamentary group, while four MPs are present with the amendment's proposing list. So I have to inform the citizens, that those weak-sighted MPs deceive them, and that I really don't pay too much attention when my previous colleague speaks, because democracy isn't just about saying what he wants, it's about listening to who you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37739	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic brought together the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37740	Dear Serbian citizens, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, means, in Article 22, the first position already discussed, it is said, namely, that exactly what we have spoken in previous members and what we have pointed out is a problem in the application of this law and in that line of governance that you intended here to establish between the Ministry, the regional agencies and the local administration. In this first attitude, you say, dear ministers, that project teams are being formed, which, of course, we support with your good intentions, and so be it. We thought this last part of the sentence should be deleted, so this part that says, for people who meet the requirements of investment support. Again, the formulation is not precise enough and we're going back to it again, I'm going to try to tell you on the Uzice case how it has to be done around here. After the adoption of this law, it is normal for the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities, to act under this law, to call on their teams, to call on their associates. You said that if they didn't have teams, they could be individuals, and that's fine with me, but let's say in this case on the Uzica case, the mayor should invite all those people who showed in the previous period that they didn't do anything for the city. So, after a team of people who made huge steps, who first looked at each other, we ended up doing gas pipeline work, dumps, heat pipelines, around the street, around the stadium, around the pools, and a lot of other things. A huge number of people have been employed in these jobs concerning local and economic development and have done nothing for three years. Again, I'm asking a question and I'm opening that dilemma, how will the mayor...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37741	You're out of time, Mr. Markovic. On behalf of the member and member of the 23rd amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 23 relates to the investment programme, however, from the content of Article 23 of this proposal, it follows that the applicant and the unit of local self-government, i.e. the competent authority of the Autonomous Region, lays down deadlines for the submission of documents and documents for the implementation of the procedures. Therefore, Article 23 does not correspond to the name of a member only because there is not a single word here on the investment programme, and on the other hand, the investment programme, by its essence, should contain a programme of investment, rights and obligations of the parties, the level of investment, dynamics and deadlines for the implementation of the obligations, the effects of investments, the measurement of the effects of investments and so on. In Article 23, however, there is not a single provision that would indirectly refer to the elements of the investment programme. Therefore, in addition to being superfluous, this member has been deprived of any essential content and the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS – the ZZS – the ZS has proposed to delete and name above the members, and Article 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37743	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37745	It is very well known in the business world and in the legal dictionary what the investment programme means, unlike what you've said, it's absolutely understood. The only thing I think is that when I read it, there's been a misunderstanding, because here in the first, second, the third paragraph is written – the program also contains. So, we're all on what you said from the programme itself, from the business plan, from all the obligations that exist, we've put in the program that investor deadlines have to be included and planned when they're going to submit their demands, to define the deadlines when the authorities will issue permits, approvals, etc. and that all those participants in the process be listed. So we tighten the situation just to get one document that would be binding on all participants in this, and the result is favourable to the business environment, i.e. satisfied investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37746	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37747	Dear Minister, I urge you to pay good attention to this proposal that we have made here, because I think you will understand our good message to improve this bill, that is, this member. We propose to delete this start that says – on a proposal from the investor, and then further say that procedures will be established, documentation preparation, etc. I think this is a surplus, for a number of reasons. So I don't think the essence of this article is going to change if we erase this beginning and what we're talking about. In fact, you know there are a lot of ways to invest in local administrations. Is it the ministry, is it partners, is it a donation, is it what you're probably thinking about, and that's some partner. Anyway, I think it's inadmissible for an investor, who, on any basis, comes to the local administration, to edit procedures here too, as you say, to establish the procedure based on his proposal. I think it's somewhat contrary to Article 17 or some of that article. First of all, I mean the state investment, say, in infrastructure or some other area. If we set up this member in such a way, then we will come to the conclusion that very often no complete procedure will be respected, or this article will not be applied to the end. That is, it will not be possible to apply this member to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37748	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37749	The investment program is something that is being realized on both sides. Therefore, there is no possibility that the investor himself sets conditions for local self-government or state bodies. The investment programme is signed by the free will of all participants in all of this and nowhere has been defined and I couldn't find how it was given. We just gave guarantees to the investor that the moment he signed the document that all participants who had to give certain permits and do their jobs, that what was written, would be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37750	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37751	In Article 23, paragraph 6, our proposal, saying: "it can be done" is replaced by the word "comprehension". I will read that view of Article 23. If the competent authority does not submit within the time limit of the action it has been committed to the programme, after the applicant has made a timely submission of the orderly and complete documentation, the applicant may file a complaint to the Serbian development agency which may, again, take measures in accordance with this law. So, if the investor submits and can appeal to the development agency, I don't think it's enough to say that the agency can take over, but is obliged to take over. The agency takes, in any case, measures, because of course it's not logical, if someone did and prepared the entire investment, if the valid documentation was brought in, if they want to build a big wind park, and then there's no documentation, there's no answer to that and of course this definition leaves room for someone to or may not have to answer. I think it's logical that you accept this amendment and it is very important and formal and essential.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37752	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37753	I thank you for a concrete proposal, and I accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37754	I thank and realize that the government's representative has accepted the amendment and that MPs in the day for the vote will declare the amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branko Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, have submitted a joint amendment suggesting that the title and new member of 23a be added after Article 23. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic together submitted to the 24th amendment. Thank you. The citizens' protector, joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoje Bradić and joint MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, submitted the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that this amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37755	Thank you. Mr. Minister, here's what I'm going to read just for the sake of the public who's following this session. The Government has proposed Article 24, which reads on investment data, as well as information that the authorities have learned during the negotiations and conduct of the procedure, the provisions of the law governing information of public importance are applied, with the government acting on demand for investment information. We have proposed an amendment that reads that Article 24 is changed and reads: "access to information of public importance in the area of investment is achieved in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance". Our proposal has been respected, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37756	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37757	The amendment of the Citizens' Protector has been accepted, and it is good, and there has been a bit of noise about it, so it is obvious that in Serbia only pressure can be done and it is for the knowledge of all who want to change something in Serbia, pressure is being placed on the Serbian government and everyone in a way that knows and who is legitimate and legal. Anyone who needs some help, a job, a pension payment to the Serbian government, so that's what you're looking for. As regards this amendment to Article 24, which we have submitted to my colleague Pavicevic and I, it contains the text adopted through your amendment, but has an additional part, which says – all the contracts on the allocation of incentive funds provided by the Republic of Serbia's budget concluded between investors and the competent ministry, with the previous consent of the government, must be published on the website of the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia within seven days of the conclusion of the contract." For a government who boasts that with its alleged democracy and transparency, that there are no secrets, that everything by law, that there is no desire to hide anything, I think that the help from our side is to give you the opportunity to adopt one such amendment, which already covers what was already adopted before that, but also extended to one new government obligation to prevent any possibility, any stories from being published, so that they don't have to then get out that someone stole the ID card, that someone was falsified, that someone turned out to be something, so he found it, so he did, but everything that was done, every incentive to be seen in seven days, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37758	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Glava V and Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens, Article 25, is in the part where, according to the minister, this political difference, we have different views. It is specifically about the Council for Economic Development and the government and the ministry have proposed the following. The Council for Economic Development is educated, in the next text of the Council, the President and members of the Council appointed the Government in accordance with this law. The council consists of a minister, a finance minister, a labour and employment minister, a president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and a director of Serbia's Development Agency. The President of the Council is the minister responsible for business affairs. The Council may, on a proposal from the President of the Council, invite other ministers at its session if, according to the Council's assessment, the need for a specific issue and depending on the area covered by the Council's consideration, with these ministers not having the right to vote in the Council. The Council's administrative, technical and technical work is carried out by the Serbian Development Agency. We suggested that this member of the law be deleted and here I will now read you the explanation because it's professional, legal, so that I don't miss anything. We believe that the formation of the Economic Development Council is unnecessary for several reasons. In view of the powers of the Council, it is clear that these are essentially government competences, i.e. individual ministries in this area, and it is not clear why a body consisting of ministers of economy, finance and labour would be formed to carry out tasks which are otherwise required to comply with the Ministry and Other Laws Act. If the reason for the formation of this Council is a possible coordination of the work of these ministries, we are reminded of Article 12. The Government Act, which says, quotes: “The Prime Minister leads and directs the government, takes care of the unity of political action. The government is coordinating the work of government members. The Prime Minister may give the other members of the government mandatory instructions and special responsibilities, in accordance with the programme and the government's policy," finished the quote. Article 14 of the same law provides that the Minister is obliged to inform the Government of everything that is important for the conduct of the policy and decision-making of the Government and that he is responsible for the implementation of the Government's decision-making and decision-making programme and policy, which he or she has made or failed to adopt or take, as well as for the execution of mandatory instructions and special duties given to him by the Prime Minister. Given the cited provisions of the Government Act, it is not clear why this Council is being formed and it is even more unclear who would be responsible if the Council failed to carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction, especially since the Council's president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the director of the Serbian Development Agency enters the Council next to the minister? We also remind you that the Agency's work surveillance, whose director and member of the Council, is being conducted by a ministry headed by a minister who is also a member of the Council. So, the Council is a school example for a non-operational, non-functional and irresponsible body. For these reasons, I submit this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37760	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37761	Article 25, another point of fracture in this law. We've already talked about Article 11, Article 24, and here's Article 25, which is being educated by the Council for Economic Development. He says the President and members of the Council are appointed by the Government, etc. and now this famous sentence, which I ask you to fix for yourself, since we haven't fixed it with the amendment, but that's why it wasn't an amendment, says - the Council is made up of the Minister, then the Minister in charge of Finance Affairs, the Minister in charge of Labour and Employment, the President of the Chamber of Commerce and the Director of the Serbian Development Agency. Who is this first minister? What minister? For pine trees? For gender equality? We don't know who that minister is, it's some mysterious creature that's showing up. Is that the minister of corruption? What? In the next position, an answer arises to the question of who might be the minister who is not seen in attitude 2, which is the President of the Council's minister responsible for business affairs, who is not in another position. He is now like a "spiritus nones", like a man who clears all the dilemmas in ancient tragedy, falls on stage and solves, there he is, the man who does it. The joke aside, in addition to this obvious mistake, which I won't say has an evil intention, the problem with this Council is that this Council has such powers, such a concentration of power that it is the center of corruption, it will be the center of corruption in Serbia even if any of these ministers, in particular, I mean the current ones, try to defend themselves against it, I believe they will yield under the pressure of others, and I can tell you which ones. So, wipe this out, you're the Minister of Business, it's your job to do this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37762	The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37763	The previous members of this bill have been defined as saying that the minister who performs business is a minister, so in this sense it is done here, can be corrected through a legal-technical order, certainly it is not a dispute. We certainly do not accept the removal of Article 25, because it is one of the most important members that defines this law and work and the whole structure institutional. Addressing the problem of Serbia's economy is one of the key elements for it, the Council for Economic Development. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Vulina, you mean? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37764	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted the 25th amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37765	Here is the opportunity for the Minister to correct and fundamentally but also this formal error over a minister for whom we do not know what his jurisdiction is, and in this amendment we propose that the Council, in Article 25(3), reads -- the Council has a total of nine members and is made up of the minister responsible for the business of the economy; therefore, we are correcting inaccuracy, further – the finance minister, the minister in charge of work and employment, the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the director of Serbia's Development Agency and four representatives of the local self-government unit proposed by the Standing Conference of Cities and the municipalities of Serbia. So, I think it's acceptable, by your reaction and by announcing on that previous amendment, the proposed amendment, because it's essential to decentralised all those forces that can locate and use the resources of local self-government. I don't think it makes sense that the government ministers know what is needed in Subotica and Vranja, what are the best projects in every local self-government of Negotina, Užica, Bora, Nis or some other cities, because it is important that local self-governments be represented through those who have the best practices and best experience and who have managed to show in more terms and with the confidence of citizens how effective local self-governments are organised, which create a favourable investment environment. So there's not a lot of obstacles here, because there's no need for additional funds. We've heard there'll be zero dinars in the Council. The remark that could have been expected, we are now extending this Council from five to nine members, I don't think it stands or presents a problem, so I don't see any reason to reject one such proposal and I think it can contribute both responsibilities and creativity and better work of the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37766	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37767	You saw that we were in the fifth position, we didn't even predict the ministers all sitting in the Council. So it is defined that if there is a need for a specific issue and depending on the area under consideration, we can also call on ministers. In the same sense, many other actors will be invited, therefore, to the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development and other chambers and other associations operating here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But I can't agree that four members of only one of these organizations should be present, because then we would make certain discrimination against others. Therefore, we have put in place an operational body that will propose resolving different investment issues, which does not in any way limit that other stakeholders will not participate in this body. So both the Government and the Committee do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37768	Thank you. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I want to speak according to the amendment. I'm afraid you don't have any more time. You spent the whole time. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I use the time of the authorised representative. ) You have spent over a minute more, so minus 29 of the time authorized and minus 25 of the time of the parliamentary group. So you've spent a minute more than you've had time for. If you want, you can come see for yourself. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37769	An additional argument, Mr Sertic, to reject this amendment, or additional arguments to the next. As we are all MPs of a national electoral unit called Serbia and it is also our duty not to represent the views and interests of only the local self-government we come from, and there are many local self-governments that do not have their own representatives in the National Assembly and we are obliged to represent their interests, so is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so is the obligation of ministers, all ministers and those who will be on the council and those who will not be in this council, to represent the views and interests of all local self-government. The second argument is more practical. What four local self-governments will have their place on the council - by size, by population? By what criteria are we going to determine which four local self-governments are? Will 170 and some local self-government be represented equally? No, he won't. Will someone from Nis, for example, represent the views of my Vranjska Bane? No, he won't. That way and with that way of thinking, they won't. I'm someone who comes from within Serbia, someone who wants Serbia to be decentralised, but in a fundamental and true way, not formally. It means nothing to us if the four presidents of the municipalities or four mayors sit, and will not essentially work on decentralisation and that these investments are more evenly deployed. Will the amendment's proposal say that some minister will know what is needed in Vranja or Sudotica, and that Nislija, Mayor of Nisa, my friend Zoran Palisic, will know what Vranja needs and even less Subotics? But it's the Minister's obligation. Each of the ministers who are scheduled to be a member of the council is obliged to pay equal attention to each local self-government, to also refer to citizens who voted and who did not vote and those who voted for this government and those who did not vote for this government. I think it is the value of the government of Alexander Vukic, who, with equal passion and dedication, is also fighting for those people who went to the polls a year ago and those who did not and those who voted for the list he led and who led, and those who did not vote for that list, we are working in the interest and that Serbia is employed. No matter who she votes for, no matter how politically she thinks, the future is in a busy, orderly and better Serbia. That's why I don't see how Serbia will essentially do that because some four local self-governments will have their own representatives by no means, nothing but satisfying the form. I'm not interested in form. The point is what awaits both this advice and this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37770	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by the MP of the academics, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The 25th Amendment was submitted by National MP Adrian Anastasov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 25th and 31st amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. On behalf of the member and member of the 26th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37771	This advice in its responsibilities and defines what is the point of this establishment, so that, as we have already said, the finance ministers, Vulin, the one from the Chamber of Commerce, and it is not known who will be from RAS, will make decisions on the allocation of incentives for investment, in accordance with this law written as from tires, so that it can also be drawn up by law governing the control and award of state aid. To remind myself, incentives, or what it says here, can be given without a public ad, calls, can be completely ominous, without established criteria, by assessing whether it's an investment of national, regional, rural, local or rural importance. This violates many of the principles of rule of law, but also many of the economic principles we talked about, because in a healthy economy you can't set priorities by who invests, who invests, and how much invests. I was already talking about the long-term investment and how long this investment can last and what its fate will be. It is a market economy issue, which is articulized, which is not the wild west, but which must contain this high level of freedom of business that is threatened by this law, and as soon as it is done, then conditions are created for corrupt operations. Such actions have been done so far, not only in this government, of course, there is clear evidence not of 24, but of 224 privatisations done in a criminal way, but it will not be changed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37772	Thank you. Members of the 26th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37773	Thank you. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed to delete this member because he is talking about the powers of the council, which we have proposed in Article 25, to delete, because we believe that, given the responsibility of the council, it is clear that this is essentially the responsibility of the Government, or individual ministries in this area, and we do not understand why a body made up of business, finance and work ministers would be formed in order to carry out the tasks that they are doing anyway in their work. We do not understand the point of Article 26, which you say is also submitted to the Government once a year a report on its work, when ministers are permanent in the cabinet sessions and can do so daily after the problem has been reported, to anyone who reports in their work. We therefore believe that the Council for Economic Development does not need to form, because we do not see what the Council for Economic Development does not do. What is the obligation of the Minister of Economy, there is no need for divorce and other ministers to decide on it. So, your responsibility is exclusively within your ministry, and you should do so within the government, and if these other ministers need you in the work you're dealing with and the problem you're going to solve with this law, you can do so at government meetings. There is no need for the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Agency to attend, when they are bodies, firstly, one is professionally, in general, and the other is under your direct authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37774	The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MPs of the academics, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vuckovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37775	Article 26 adds new points 2), 3, 4), 5) which reads: after point 1) comes a point 2) closer regulates criteria that determine the importance of investment; 3) sets out specific subsidies for projects that open up jobs, using technology that protects the environment, green jobs, because these are good European practices, because each country encourages this type of investment and this type of investment that cares about ecology and sustainable development, and it is really very important to adopt these amendments, because we did not seek to delete this member, but supplement, this is one of the most important criteria that should not be respected; 4) sets out standards of a favourable business environment; 5) sets out a recommendation to units of local self-government, and as regards criteria and criteria for professional training and working experience that must meet persons under Article 20(1) of this law. Current points 2), 3), 4), 5), becoming points 6), 7), 8) and 9). So, all of the above and the proposed criteria remain with this supplement and I think it is particularly important this point 2), because this is certainly missing from this law. We believe that criteria and criteria regarding professional training and work experience must be met by people working in local, economic development and investment support. So local self-government units decide, and the central level should be recommended. As for understanding the role of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and local self-government, I do not think it is appropriate to compare the importance and put into the same level of the National Organisation of Local Self-Government, the Permanent Conference with NAED or any other association, without underestimating anyone. So this is the National Association of Local Self-Government that must be equal partners in this business. The second argument we've heard, and that's how we choose the representatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37776	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37777	... on the council. So he chooses an independent conference, the mayors themselves who know how to support these jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37778	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37779	All investors who come to Serbia, as well as all businesses that already operate, must monitor all parameters, the environment and respect the laws that define the area. I don't agree with the way we define certain specific subsidies that we would follow, but we can do this in the criteria in which we define the regulation, as we have given you an explanation regarding the employment of young people over 45 years, so that it can be one of the detailed criteria, which in some shade will make a difference in the height of incentives, so in that sense we will certainly implement it in such a regulation, but we cannot accept it in this way through the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37780	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of Glava 6, the name of the member and member of the 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37781	The member and title define Serbia's Development Agency, the establishment of a Development Agency, which is given pre-ambitious powers and objectives. It's hard for someone to be from this planet, and God and a group of people can do it. It says: "In order to carry out development, professional and operational business of encouraging and realising direct investment, promoting and increasing exports, development and improving the competitiveness of business entities, but also the reputation and development of the Republic of Serbia in the area also brings regional development, the agency is established. The agency is being supervised by the ministry. “ Very unusual. Why does the oversight not carry out this counsel that we set up in Article 26, or 25, and jurisdiction in 26? One more question - who oversees the work of the Council? Is it the Government or was it more natural that if a special government body were formed, the Council would then make the report available to parliament? I am sure that even today, at least once there was, there is a Committee on Economics and Economy in the Government, the Commission. Anything that goes to the government from the ministry has to go through, I don't know if it's now called a committee or a commission. It's the same body. Now you've raised him to a higher level, so let's give him control, not inspection control, but control over it as a way to better flow information towards Parliament and the public, of course. Perhaps one of the MPs can help you, perhaps one of the MPs, not the ruling majority, but perhaps one of the MPs on this side can help you find some investors for some good places.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37782	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37783	Your Honors Minister, in the principle debate, I tried to closely and closely monitor your exposure and I was particularly interested in that part of the suspension of the agencies that existed. So, in this case, the National Agency for Regional Development and the Agency for Foreign Investment. It made sense for me to keep at least one of these agencies in the new concept you offered. In this case, in my opinion, first of all, this National Agency for Regional Development. I think the reason was precisely in that relationship that you tried to explain, as regards co-operation with regional agencies and with this attempt to include local economic development offices in this concept. I think it's left unscheduled in what way this co-operation will be established. This section regarding the number of employees in the next period, related to this agency, do these people who worked in these mentioned agencies remain working or losing their jobs? I think it was good that because of all these dilemmas we have, and there are many, in the next members they are opening up, to keep that concept of work of the National Agency for Regional Development, rather than establishing a new agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37784	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37785	In Article 27, paragraph 2, we have proposed another solution which we believe is relevant together with those representatives who are proposed. It would read: “The Agency’s work has been supervised by a supervisory authority, one representative of the Chamber of Commerce, one representative of the Ministry of Business, one representative of the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities. ” I think it is necessary to expand that body which would monitor, especially the realisation of investment itself, because there are major irregularities in this segment. Also, I think this formulation will help a lot in the professional definition of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37786	On behalf of the member and member of the 28th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37787	From Article 27, and beyond, the whole law is dedicated to the agency and here it is said to be a legal person with rights and obligations that are logical, to operate in accordance with the law governing public agencies and to have an account. It's a technical member who must exist everywhere, but that's reason no longer to form this agency. If two agencies have to shut down already, you've given it in an explanation, it says in one place that by analysing the work of the agencies you conclude that improving their work can be achieved by shutting down and setting up a new one. That's a really interesting thing. It's like one passionate smoker shutting down one cigarette and lighting the other right away. Not to remind you of fairy tales, bass, and other examples of beautiful children's literature about the fact that the new government, which is of course for the first time in history, this government that I call "the government on a nervous base", is going to end the mass of agencies, that it's going to clear up all things. What's been lifted? What did you cancel? These two to make one that's going to be expensive for these two. So, two of those, to say "tweegi", will become one "bucca", the agency, and it is called RAS. We'll see later that the Belgrade headquarters, so much about decentralisation, about care for even development, about anything, but, let's do it, let's do it, let's have that account, of course there's no doubt about it, let's say it operates in accordance with the law. Of course he's doing business in accordance with the law, because that defines some other law. So here's Article 28. You have 20 more opportunities to appeal to the interests of Serbia and withdraw this law and do your job as Minister of Economy. Your job is investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37788	The word comes from MP Zoran Babic, head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37789	We're entering a phase of the amendment on a nervous base, and these amendments are being deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37790	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37791	Since I noticed that the amendment's promoter has been dismembered, and here it has been abandoned by the ideologist of the amendment "expected", and now support for the amendment's proposings has fallen to 50% of those 0.35%, so we're already entering that support sphere, but I have to notice, that the man who just called out the majority of parliament that we're not there, he's been eager to shut down the microphone, pick up his stuff and leave the National Assembly. It is likely that he had obstacles to Belgrade cafes, restaurants, or who knows where, yet spare time, and Belgrade nights, such as this on Thursday nights are very interesting. Why the amendment should not be accepted, I will use the words of the amendment promoter. This is a technical member who must exist everywhere. So there's got to be everywhere, except he's proposing to wipe it out. I don't understand the promoter, it's a technical member who has to exist everywhere, and he's proposing to delete. Here, please, explain the point to me and what did the poet mean? On the other hand, whether "buca" or "tweegi", two agencies are being shut down, one new one is being formed with the powers that exist, with eight board members in one and another agency who were paid during these amendments on a nervous basis, and are now going to be five members of the board of directors who will have no compensation. I think it's "tweegie" in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I can see the anxiety of whether or not these people will stay in the workplace. Why is that nervous? Because these are people who are both employed by a party key at the SIEPA Agency and at the National Agency for Regional Development. That's why this discreet concern is going, how are we, what are we going to do with these people, these aunts, aunts, and snorkels and godmothers that we've hired in our time of government. It is the thinking of the amendment promoters and those who sit, or stealth, sitting in cults that are ahead. In a jargon of amendment promoters, who is in total dispersion because 50% of the membership left him because Mr. Pavicevic left an hour ago. Since I've never seen a man who smokes two cigarettes, so let's say he threw one away, but someone who smokes two packs of cigarettes, now he's down to one, and that's a light, that's some thinr cigarettes that are for smokers, to cost, but much less than at the time of this party's breakdown of amendments on a nervous base.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37792	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. To explain to him what the poet wanted to say. Mr. Zivkovic, I thought you wanted to get the right to a replica to apologize for throwing it away. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Not saying apologized but apologized. You're right, you're right. So you don't want to talk about it. Only Mr. Pavicevic would have the right to reply because he was mentioned. We move to the amendment to Article 28, which was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37793	Dear Minister, I think it's a good idea for you to get involved and answer some of the questions that we asked in the previous discussion regarding employee status in the agencies that are being abolished. So your aunt works there. ) This trivial attempt by Mr Babic to bring it down to a personal level and to talk about some aunts who are left without a job, talk about him and talk about the approach he has to this law and what we are talking about. So the essential question isn't... . Is this okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37794	Please, Mr. Babic, allow Mr. Markovic to explain the amendment in peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37795	Mr. Babic may be nervous and perhaps he has plans for tonight, as he talks about interesting Belgrade nights Thursday, but it is very important that we concentrate on what we are opening as a topic, because it is about the status of people who are employed there. There were about 120 employees out there. According to this proposal we have here, there will be about 150 employees somewhere, but I still insist on it, and I don't know what it will be like... (Zoran Babic, from the place: Where does it say? ) The minister himself said that, I don't know why it's funny that he'll be 150 employees. That doesn't really matter. I insist on this link, because I think it's deviating from one concept that was a good solution to me, which is the national development agency that existed, which is why it is abolished and what is the further status of regional development agencies and their relationship to this concept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37796	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37797	In this law in Article 47, if you stay until the end, you will read the fate of the employees, and we are only on the 28th. This law does not affect the status of regional development agencies, and we will solve them under the laws they have defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37798	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted the 28th amendment together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37799	Therefore, Article 28 speaks of the fact that the Agency has the capacity of a legal person with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down in this law and statute. The next position says – the agency operates in accordance with the law governing public agencies. We totally agree with that. At the place of the sentence – the agency has an account. We think it is unnecessary that it contains a norm prescribed by law that the agency formed should have an account. We should write that there is a stamp, there is a logo, and I think you should respect our amendment to the sentence – the agency has an account downloaded as unnecessary, because there is no need for other acts to regulate what the agency should have when it forms.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37800	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37801	The agency has its headquarters in Belgrade, and a more creative solution could be found. The agency may also have its units out of its seat, but the question is why they serve and of course these units will not have legal personality. Because of the interest shown to employees of the current agencies, I really can't show concern for the employees of those agencies in the way that he was presented here, since no one who was with me in the government has ever asked for any benefits. They left the government when I got out in March 2004. You can check that out. Those who are now with you, and then they've been hanging out in other parties, these irreplaceable ones, it has nothing to do with me, and, of course, anyone who knows at least all the big letters can conclude themselves. Your interest in Mr. Pavicevic, he is on a stand since it was scheduled 15 days ago, because of course, there is no need to work in the middle of the night or late in parliament, and it is without transmission, unless some unholy intent, to get through something...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37802	Get back to the amendment, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37803	I'm on the amendment, of course all the time. So just now, it was also a surprise that we're looking to delete the amendments, including the one that's technically, that exists everywhere. Yes, there are everywhere in every law that makes sense. Since this law doesn't make sense, then even these members of this law technically can't make sense. Therefore, it is logical that me and my colleague perform in parliament, we point to obvious mistakes and bad intentions, with a human attempt to save you from sin and that further being in this world does not turn you into the devil of Serbian dirty politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37804	You've finally become pious. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37805	It is interesting when all of this is brought with it, and someone who was first brought into the Republic Secretariat of the Government's legislation is forgotten, and then settled in the RIK, and then magically transferred to the Republic War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I think the amendment promoter will understand who it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37806	Thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37807	Dear Minister, of course I know that Article 47 provides for all the people who worked in the agencies to be out of work. I expected that you would have the opportunity to perhaps, with one serious approach to all of us, and also to the citizens of Serbia and these people who are concerned, to appreciate that in these agencies in the previous period, some people who have done some of the results have worked, that these people who have done well, who are professional, in which the state has invested great money, who are educated and who have some results behind them, will stay. It's impossible that all 120 people didn't do anything, that they didn't know anything and that they should lose their jobs. I don't think that's right. As far as this amendment is concerned, we also think it is wrong for the Agency's headquarters to be in Belgrade. This does not essentially talk about the intention to decentralisation the system in Serbia, i.e. it confirms exactly the intention to continue with deep centralisation in Serbia. As for your position that the issue of regional development agencies will be defined by a special law, we are going back to this concept. I really expected that somehow in this proposal that you did appreciate and that people in regional development agencies were working, because I hold that you stayed on the concept of the national agency that existed, so that they could find their own space to operate in that concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37808	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37809	You're right about a certain number of employees, and really when we get to Article 49, I'm going to give you accurate and accurate information about what our plan is with existing employees. But all I have to do is walk you out, the National Regional Development Agency is not directly related, nor are they employed by regional development agencies directly related to the National Agency. This is defined by the Regional Development Act. Once we change that law, then we will define the status of regional agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37810	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 30th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37811	Another technical member to be deleted, in particular the publication of the Statute of the Agency in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Well, of course, it says in the Agency Act, there's no need to write again. So there's nothing new here, it's a series of members that should be deleted. As for the interest of an earlier speaker for some people who work in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and before that were in the Legislative Secretariat, this is obviously about my wife, who was not brought into the Republic Secretariat for Law, but was there in the government of Zoran Djindjic. After a few years, in 2007 or 2008, she started working at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and ask where she should, if you dare, why. You can ask that now, as well as what it recommends someone to do there. And finally, to that previous speaker, I don't think it would be possible for the discussion in this House to turn, he would at least be able to have the discussion in this parliament turned into a discussion about the wives of politicians. I think it's a good tip, so we're not going in. This member is, of course, like I said, technically... People's MPs speak out loud. Goodbye if you're going, have a good trip!
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37812	Please, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37813	So warn a fellow who throws away, don't warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37814	I didn't notice, Mr. Zivkovic, that anyone is throwing you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37815	You have to make a little effort to notice, because you need to be a lot more sensitive.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37816	I only saw two colleagues talking to each other, but no one threw it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37817	It is a distraction, and a conversation with one another, read.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37818	I accept it's a distraction to have someone talking to each other in the O.R., but no one's throwing you, Mr. Zivkovic. Thank you. Time's up. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37819	This has confirmed the truthfulness of my words and false representation. When I left, I brought everything with me. Everything but the closest environment, which I didn't want to talk about directly, but that's why Mr. Amendment Proposer mentioned family members, and it's not a matter of being mentioned by members of the family of other MPs. My wife is a graduate pedagogue, with a working relationship in elementary school, with a diary that will hold her hand for the rest of her working relationship. The working relationship that she gained after her college, no politics, no influence, no ambition to become president of the teacher's council or I don't know what, just because she's the wife of someone who's involved in politics. That's the difference between you and me. That's the difference because I don't forget my closest relatives in such important institutions, with very high salaries, plus that the same people are, as forgotten, in front of the Anti-Corruption Agency and certain cadastrian plots with several acres of falsely formed some rural households or I don't know what. So, as much as we should talk about private matters and family members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37820	The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37821	The Honorable Chairman, you did not chair the session when the Rules of Procedure was injured, but you are now in that position and I am advertising the violation of Rule 107. The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. By who knows which way we hear from Mr Babic exactly that kind of disqualification or way to get into other people's personal lives the moment he doesn't like the argument, especially in relation to politics, but also with laws. We're talking about the law here, we're talking about amendments, and then when we get into conflict and different opinions, of course it reaches out on that side and enters personal lives. So, I ask you to put this under consideration, I want the Assembly to declare an unequivocally clear violation of Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37822	Comrade Kiric, I understand that you have advertised Article 107, this part regarding private life. My colleague Babic, as I understand it, has been talking about his private life since I led the session. (Goran Ciric, from the post: He talked about the private life of another MP and addressed himself. You have already asked for the Assembly’s statement. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37823	Article 108, Mr. Chairman. I know we've been in this room for more than 10 hours. I am present at the National Assembly this morning from eight o'clock, shortly before eight, and I know that my colleague Ciric has dropped his concentration and that he may not be able in the tenth hour, with full attention, except as most colleagues from his MP group, who are not there, not only after ten hours of debate, but also all day long were not present, likely to have a shortcut to work, but before advertising the Rules of Procedure would have to be informed of who is what and at any point mentioned anything. I never mentioned a single member of the family to anyone in this room. But it didn't bother Mr. Zivkovic to mention the members of my family and it didn't bother anyone. That didn't bother Mr. Ciric then. He probably applauded. He said so, master, even stronger, even harder, than he should. Those double arches cost us. We close our eyes and ears the way we like it when it suits us. It's impossible for you to put other people's words in my mouth. It's impossible for you to burden me with what I didn't do, what I would never do. About the family, family members were talking about you too, and if someone needed to, and once Mr. Ciric was supposed to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he had to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure after Mr. Zivkovic's speech, and not now because I respect everyone's family, but I also expect my family to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37824	My colleague Babic, as I understood the 108th non-explanation of the warning. I know that... (Zoran Babić, from Place: Item 1.) Article 1 All right. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37825	Double arches were present here a long time ago. It's very strong to be a hero who dares to tell the truth just because he has several times more time for discussion than anyone else does. Of course, this proverbial attempt to make someone stupid and not realize what he said himself, even when someone does it very successfully is not something worthy of this home. Of course, there was a story about my wife. Of course, I have nothing to be ashamed of. Of course, proud, of course, has nothing to do with it, so for three or four years she hasn't worked in any state body. Of course, she began her legal career by catching some con men in election thefts. Of course, the party in which you were then, or the chairman, also helped. Of course, it qualified that legal knowledge for many of the jobs that she had successfully done without any criticism or any bad relationship with her, regardless of my husband. So even that burden that I was a husband wasn't enough. Therefore, I have no reason to be ashamed of this part of my life and my wife, but of course that is not the way to discuss it in parliament. Of course, there's even a member of the Rules of Procedure who defines it and you can't insult me here, but I think it's good to stay away from such things, because then it happens that I answer, and then that answer can be a little less sophisticated than it normally does, and that's not good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37826	Time, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37827	I'm gonna start with what I just finished, I respect everyone's family, and I don't think anyone here in the O.R. should be ashamed, of course not of their family. But what I said, and why I said that in the after-work statement, it was a true sentence that he said -- I'm all those who came with me, I took them with me in 2003, and he forgot someone he left behind in the Republic Secretariat for Law and then in the Republic War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I'm not talking about a lawyer, I'm not talking about a spouse, with all due respect, that she didn't have good taste, it's not a woman's fault, but I'm talking about what's been said here, which is that he took everything with him, so he didn't bring everything with him. And this isn't about a wife, who, again, had no good taste, what to do, I'm talking about what was said here, and it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37828	Since I see that this discussion is going in that direction where, despite my requests, you should not go back to the subject of the agenda, and despite what the replicas were, I'm going to have to use the right in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and to set a five - minute break, or ten minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members and members of the 31st Amendment were submitted in the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37830	Since he doesn't have a minister or his associates, I have two options. Either we wait for them, or I say something I have nothing to do with this member. It's all one thing for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37831	If you insist, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37832	I insist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37833	I'm asking the service to inform the minister that we've begun the session. (Minister Željko Sertić enters the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37834	As for Article 31, this is about the Agency's authorities being considered by the Agency as managing board and director. So it's said that there's a board of directors and directors, that the board has five members, that you and you are members, and that's here as one great achievement, there were eight, now there are five. It can be good if we look at a small intestine, so it says, maybe the diaries will be a little bit less, or compensation, whatever they were, but generally there's a decrease in the level of people who are familiar with what's going on, and that, as we know, leads to what we've learned, to corruption. So that's another reason to delete this member as well as all the members behind it. Here we will surely repeat that formulation once again, or I will repeat that this is a technical member that needs to be deleted. And that the general board of directors, neither the director nor the Serbian Development Agency itself will change anything. Investment in one country, as the minister knows very well, requires an entire spectrum of good opportunities, which will of course be legal, which will be neither immoral nor against any positive law, domestic or foreign. We heard earlier that once it was possible for foreign investors to be some against whom a procedure is being conducted abroad, it's incorrect. International legal aid prevents it, and there is a commission, at least there was, to say in my time to prevent money laundering that was first formed because of it. And finally, in the end, because of the public, and not because of some who are successfully pretending to be stupid, so when I became Prime Minister, my wife resigned at the same time as the republican secretary of legislation, it was in 2003, and started working again in the judiciary in 2008. So it's a small period of five years, because of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37835	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37836	Dear Ministers, as well as other members and in the proposal for this law, and we believe that this member should be deleted because many of the proposals submitted by the DS during the amendment have not been accepted. Many proposals concerning public debates have not been respected, the proposals in this debate are not respected. So we believe that this intention of yours, which is obvious, is that, in some ways, the work of the council through the work of this board of directors, will not do any good in the application of this law. So we think the concept is wrong, we think it's bad that another agency is being founded. In the explanation that we have given regarding this amendment, we have said that the essential establishment of another agency is not in line with the pre-election promises that existed in front of this election that are behind us, is neither in line with the exposé of Prime Minister Vukic, nor is it in line with, I think, the austerity measures that have been discussed. So this is a small doorway introduction of another agency that is essentially not going to produce any results in its work. When we further analyse the work of the board of directors and councils and at all the work of the agency, we will have the opportunity to see a series of shortcomings, because I think that here is the fundamental opportunity for this concept that you have offered to include local administrations to be better done and that there will be the most problems in application of this law. I thought that at least in this section relating to the board of directors would be respected the DS proposal to essentially decentralise the involvement of people from local administrations in the work of the board of directors. We believe that this is also very important for the development of local administrations, but it is also very important for the decentralisation process that we talked about, but it is not respected, and that is another reason why we think this member should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37837	Time, colleague Markovic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37838	Your Honor, you have the right to your opinion and you have participated in today's debate, made proposals, some even adopted, etc., but I really cannot accept you telling the truth. What you're talking about is a classic public deception when you say -- this is another agency; and Prime Minister Vukice said in his exposé that we're going to cut agencies, etc. This is exactly how we function, and we are in a tone of what the prime minister was saying, but also what I as minister in the previous period publicly declare that we will work to make a more efficient administration, to reduce the number of agencies, and that the result of all of this is more concrete and much better work. So I'm asking you to just stick to what it is, and that's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37839	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Adrian Anastasov submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Stosic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37840	It is our proposal to amend Article 31, paragraph 3, and to propose that – members of the board of directors, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for business affairs, be appointed and resolved by the Government, as is proposed in the member himself, of which one member from the ranks of civil servants is proposed instead of three proposed or from the order of civil servants in office in the ministry. Then, two members of the business community and two members from the ranks of local self-government units who are proposing a permanent conference of municipalities and cities as a national association of municipalities and cities. Article 3 is amended as follows: The President and members of the Management Board must have high professional training and seven years of experience in the field of economy. So the reasons for putting up with this amendment are the desire to insist again on decentralisation, especially in the location and relocation of these resources, because I think it's important to involve people from the local community. It is a constant question, in which to develop the economy and encourage this development and investment, whether it is a view just from above and from the level of ministries and views from the level of central government or we will have a view from above and below with representatives from local self-government and of course from representatives of the business community, because I think it is important to get out of this vicious circle, because this bill just shows that we are in this vicious circle of exclusive administration from the level of central government. With this change and this adoption of this amendment, we have made a step in this regard. And as far as the criteria are concerned, I suppose it is clear that it is necessary to establish criteria for the possibility of participation in this board of directors so important, a high-level expert prepares but with the right degree and experience of seven years so as not to have trainees come to us and run such important resources in the development of the entire country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37841	Time. My colleague Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I am waiting for the next member. You're waiting for the next member. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37842	Of course I don't mind the high-level professional training, because I have it myself and I won it at the University of Belgrade Engineering. Of course I don't mind the experience in the economy why seven, why not five or nine, or 15, or I don't know how many years. But I cannot accept this amendment for pure inconsistency. If we have in the parliamentary benches of the former ministers who studied, not these seven years as the amendment promoter predicted, but they studied 12 years of the same Faculty of Engineering and their first job was the secretary of state, and then the minister and the very important minister of defense, what was it then? Why didn't the amendment promoter then ask for a profession, an expert prepares, how many years, how many experiences, what average in college, how many years of study? There was no such thing and then there was no such type of rapper for one minister, and now for the board of directors it has to be seven years and Malta not only to put the icons of those who are responsible for the board of directors of the agency itself. Inconsistencies. If such a principle had been respected when some governments were formed in 2007 and 2008, so I could understand, so to speak, people are consistent, looking for certain qualities, every honor; but then it didn't matter what a man studied for 12 years, which he passed after five October changes in 15 days. I don't know if he's made it so many times to go to the Faculty of Engineering and back and immediately the first job in the state administration and immediately the secretary of state and immediately the minister and I don't know what kind of expert and professional you are right now. Please don't make up things now that you weren't ready to use yourself. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: I answer the word. ) (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37843	First, let me see, Mr. Jovan Markovic, on what grounds? (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Goran Ćirić, from place: Replica on display... Wait, it's okay. A colleague behind you has requested a violation of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I have to give him my word. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37844	Dear Chairman, I call on article 108. The Rules of Procedure, which states in the first position that order at the National Assembly session is being taken care of by the chairman, and we have just come out of a five-minute break, 10-minute session, and 15-minute discussions by fellow Babic, have led to the interruption of the work of the Assembly and on such an important topic to make a break, and after that break, some things are again banalized. (Zoran Babic, from the place: What? We're back here listening to cheerleading, Mr. Granny, while you're talking cheerleading that might be your support...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37845	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37846	... But it's a direct insult to people who aren't here... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: "Vultation"? And that story of yours about exams and 12 years of studying about ministers is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37847	My friend Markovic, I have to tell you... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: What does this mean? I talk all the time, and he throws. ) Please, first of all, I have to tell you, I asked you not to speak personally to your fellow MP. That's what I asked you to do first. About article 108, which you advertised, defines the statement of the warning of who takes care of the order at the session. Now, insults, I can understand that someone is considered offended if something harsh is said about his political party, some thing that was brought out of the private lives of the MPs, and Mr Babic was talking about the minister, the former, without mentioning the name, the defence minister. We've had five, six in the last 15 years. That's why you think it's someone in the DS. I can't qualify that I had to stop Mr. Babic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Then I have to repeat again what I said.) Here you go. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37848	The Honorable Chairman, precisely because of the general noise coming from the other side, you probably didn't hear my argument. I've just drawn your attention to that part about cheering up SNS MPs while their head of Parliament insults some MPs and people who aren't here. That insult, cheer and noise that lasts all the time is the subject of my complaint. In the follow-up, the moment I speak, the fellow in question throws me, interrupts me, and I again point out that what happened in the previous period seemed to be repeated, and you're not responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37849	Are you done? I was trying to explain. Mr. Babic, as far as I understand his exposure, disagrees with the fact that someone without a day's work experience as state secretary or defence minister is concerned. What's offensive about that? Explain to me what's offensive. I'd like to hear that. Here, I'll give you my word just to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37850	Mr. Chairman, I've advertised a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which states in Section 1 that an old chair is in order at the session. I was just saying that you didn't react when on the other hand a certain group of MPs yelled, threw away, interrupted me in the presentation, etc. If that's okay with you, if you don't see that your actions or inaction create a very bad atmosphere here in the Assembly, then that's your problem, that is, the problem of all of us, that is, the problem of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37851	Again, Mr. Markovic, you know what, I don't consider myself a stupid man. Someone might think so, but I don't consider myself. So you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then you're telling me that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was caused by your application for a word for breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's exactly what you told me. So you asked me to calm down my colleague Babic and appeal to article 108. The Rules of Procedure before he throws anything at you. Don't, it's not going. I can say that in this Assembly I have seen everything, for example, and the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who became a minister, he entered the university when I was walking, in the meantime I became an MP, he has not finished college yet. What's offensive about that now? Do you find it offensive? It qualified him to be a minister or not, nothing more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37852	Mr. Chairman, I don't know whether you're just avoiding facing what's wrong with your actions or not. I don't think you're stupid, but I don't think I'm stupid either. I think it's enough, regardless of the fatigue that's obvious for both you and the others, if I tell you twice that the problem has arisen the moment Mr. Babic used offensive expressions and when the salva of cheerleading started on what he's saying. That's the problem, that atmosphere that's being created because you're smiling, that you're giving him and others the opportunity to insult other people, and you're not reacting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37853	I would like to finally, colleague Babic, before I give you my word, to bring that code of conduct to the National Assembly. I don't see what's offensive when someone said someone had studied for 12 years and his first job was the secretary of state and the minister. Let me out of here. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. I called before that. I must tell you that first of all, the Rules of Procedure always go wrong, no matter when you answer the line. Here you go, buddy Babic. I've taken 20 seconds from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37854	Thank you. I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, paragraph 1 of the National Assembly's dignity has been injured because one or a group of MPs persistently insults, advertising the Rules of Procedure and various other mechanisms are trying to place a patch on their mouths and silence SNS MPs. I don't know where in Serbia, where in the world is the truth insult? As for those predictions when there will be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Tarabics are from a golden village called the Kremna. The flints are close to Užica, so I see this link of predicting what will happen, how it will happen, but what none of the Rules of Procedure, which no noise here in the National Assembly can conceal, is that, I will be explicit now, that Dragan Sutanovac studied 12 years of engineering college, that he finished it after the five-octobaric changes in a Volcheban and a very fast way and that so long study is not an insult, but the truth. It is an insult that you have proposed and voted for the most important state functions without any other reference. What's that insult? Was he the secretary of state? Yes, it is. Was he the Secretary of Defense? Yes, it is. Did he study for 12 years? Yes, it is. Did he finish after October 5th? Yes, it is. Well, what's the insult?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37855	Time. I see we're gonna need another break to determine. I'm setting a break until 9:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37856	We're going back to work. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. (Goran Ćirić and Jovan Markovic, from the post: By Business. ) At the name of the member and member of the 32nd amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37857	You cannot ignore MPs who want to tell you something and are calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37858	Mr. Zivkovic, would you like to take your word for it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37859	I answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37860	Here, 20 seconds have passed, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37861	That to you, not to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37862	Mr. Markovic, when Mr. Zivkovic is finished, then I'm going to ask why you're reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we haven't even begun the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37863	Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37864	Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37865	Article 32 is, of course, deleted, as everything that is bad in one country needs to be deleted and done anything that never happens again. Of course, it's the board of directors who decide many important things, so important that there is no minister to hear what I'm about to say, but I won't insist, it's also such a waste... Here's the minister, so I don't worry about his health. The Governing Board, as another part of this bad law, adopts the annual work programme, the financial plan, the financial report, oversees the Agency's operations, directs the work of the directors, brings a Rules of Procedure, etc. So another technical member who should improve the investment climate in our country and get better. I ask how it was possible for, say, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 investments to be several times, five or six times larger than it has been in the last two or three years, and there has been no such law and there has been no incentive for a job or for anything, but for serious global companies to invest in Serbia. It's probably this general environment that was then favourable to investment, and not only in the privatisation process, but the biggest greenfield investments were agreed and started at that time. Therefore, you will not change anything with such a law, but try to create a Serbia worthy of its ancestors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37866	The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37867	Your Honors Chairman, I'm advocating Article 103(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the MP must specify which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured when the Rules of Procedure is advertised. This refers to Mr. Babic's discussion, which was before this break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37868	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm the chairman now, and I don't know what happened before the break. I don't think I've violated the Rules of Procedure in giving a word to Mr. Zivkovic, so we move on to Article 32. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It really doesn't make sense. I answered my word. ) Mr. Markovic, I ask you to follow the session, to report, because at 9:00 p.m., I will not allow you to injure the dignity of the National Assembly in this way. Mr. Zivkovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37869	I'll tell you what I have on article 33 with my disagreement with the way you treat your colleagues, but they'll have a chance to deal with you, that's more than safe. This is another interesting member. Article 4 deals with how the Director is elected, what he does, etc. Public competition, that's good, something like that's good, but only if the law generally makes sense. Unfortunately, then there is always but what luck is corrupting – the minister can set criteria and criteria for professional training and work experience that candidates for directors must meet. The Minister can. It's usually a formula that doesn't belong in the law, in any law. "It can", either it works or it doesn't work. This "can" is total arbitration. Let's say the minister decides he won't, then what do we have, then who can apply for the position of director of the agency? Everyone. So they can be citizens of other countries, they can be people who are incapacitated, they can be people who are retired, they can be people who don't talk about professional preparation and experience. I can't believe this formulation is a result of recklessness in text writing and reading and analysis. Anyway, I'm afraid that's where the possibility of anything can be left, and that tourism in Bulgaria over 24 apartments develops through stimulation, or that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37870	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by MP Zoran Babic, head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37871	I don't think there's anything we can agree on, but I think behind this 4th-member item of the 33rd is actually predicting that the minister sets out a sublegal act, i.e. the ministry determines a sublegal act that defines all the conditions and criteria. I agree that this formulation could possibly be that the minister determines the criteria and the rest. True, it cannot be derived from this amendment, because this is an amendment – it is deleted, but by some legal order or whatever, what is the possibility of such a thing being determined. Is tourism in Bulgaria, I don't know, but I heard today that there are some apartments, 35 apartments in Novi Sad, and I don't know what's going on, except for the development of the property map of some former regime officials. But as for this item 4, I think you can get a happier formulation, which is that the minister determines the criteria and criteria and that everything else remains right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37872	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Jovan Markovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37873	Your Honors Minister, since I haven't had a chance to address the previous two members, and they were very important, I'm going to try to be concise now and get back on the subject. My concept was for all of these amendments that the agency, or the formation of a new institution, actually solves at the level of a national agency that used to exist for development and I believe that all of these measures that you have taken are still wrong and will not be in line with the objectives that you have set. What's particularly important in this address of mine is that you said I wasn't telling the truth in a previous address when I was talking about agencies. I don't know why you said that, and what isn't true if I said you were setting up a new agency? Isn't it true that you're setting up another agency with this decision and this law? Isn't it true that the government's decision was and that the pre-election promise of the SNS was either that the agencies would be abolished? And isn't it true that you will receive about 150 new people with this agency? And isn't it true that you're gonna fire some people who worked for years in these other two agencies? (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: It is not true. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37874	Please, Mr. Minister, you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37875	You said in the previous statement that about 150 people would be employed. And I'm just calling on what you said three hours ago. And I don't know what's not true about what I said about you starting another agency, and the SNS promise was that it would end all of the, uh, retailed 142 agencies, and only three? What's wrong with my address? It's true that you're removing two, but it's true that you're setting up another one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37876	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37877	We of the two agencies that we're shutting down and who haven't fulfilled their tasks that they've been given legal solutions so far, we're making a new, modern one. I was very precise – out of almost 150 employees, with those additional contracts, so 110 or 115 regularly employees plus others on contracts, we will have one agency with almost three times fewer employees. So, I never said we'd have 150 employees, but I limited it to about 50 jobs that would be systematicized. You can review the entire record, all transcripts of our conversations and my address to the Assembly and MPs, both Monday and today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37878	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vuckovic submitted to the amendment. Please, the word has been made by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37879	Article 33(4) is amended and reads: “The Director of the Agency must meet the following conditions: 1) a person who fulfils the general conditions for working in the public authorities may be elected to the Director, that he has completed a college and at least nine years of working experience and that he is not convicted of a criminal offence that makes him unworthy of acting as director; 2) the Director cannot be a member of a political party or political entity. “ It is therefore necessary to determine the conditions for selecting the director, as well as for the former member. If the key answer and the key argument we heard from Mr. Babic is that Sutanovac has studied for 12 years and that you are not ready to accept at least the minimum criteria for someone to lead such an important body and to have a college and high professional training and to have in the previous seven years, now a nine-year proposal because it is a more responsible function, then I don't understand what we're talking about? We're talking about 12 years for the Shutanovec, so I recognized. He graduated from the state college. I wasn't at the beginning clearly if you were thinking of the current minister of the military? When did Gasic finish? In 2012. It's his success. But that doesn't make any arguments about not adopting any criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37880	Mr. Kiriq, I appreciate everything, but I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37881	I got two minutes. You asked the question. You didn't give me your word. You didn't ask a question... . (Goran Ciric, from the post: how much the president studied. [[off microphone]] It's the right of all people. We're only talking about terms here. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37882	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37883	Replica, Mr. Chairman. And I'm going to ask you to remind the applicant of Article 33 to which this amendment applies, but in paragraph 4, which reads, I hope after the revision, "The Minister sets out the criteria and criteria for professional training and working experience that candidates for the Director of the Agency must meet." Where and in what law are the criteria set out, those laid down in sublaws? Where? The amendments to the amendment have been proposed by the law and not by sublegal acts, if Article 33(4) clearly determines who determines the criteria and criteria. It's not that there are no criteria and criteria, it's that they're a matter of sublaw. But when we talk about inconsistencies, we can't put nine years now, because I expected the amendment's proposal to say – for the Agency's director's post to be 12 years of study. Because if in 12 years of study someone could have been a minister, why can't they also be a director of the Agency? There are criteria, there are criteria, the minister determines by sublaw these criteria and those criteria and of course they will be chosen best, not most obedient.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37884	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the member and member of the 34th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37885	Of course, another member who needs to be deleted, because the law is generally not good, so it won't help us find out what the director's responsibilities are. They are common, except at point 7, where it says "the director of the Agency decides on the rights and obligations of employees". Isn't that defined by some laws? Isn't that defined by the statute? How can the Director decide on labour rights, or human rights, or rights to protection, or rights to not know everything, information and employee obligations? Well, he can't prescribe, Mr. Minister, the obligations above what's been defined by the Labour Act and what's been defined by the Statute of the Agency. So, is this the consequence of non-shaling again in the writing of the law, according to the system – we can write whatever we want, these will vote for ours and for the greasy cloth, let alone for a few members, or is that the intention to create the conditions for mobing there again? I can doubt that if there's such a formula. Why do you need such a formula in the law, no matter what the law doesn't have? But this further increases the suspicion that this agency will be the same as many other agencies, as many as there are 100-120. I agree, more than seven-eight, and it doesn't need to be, and there are so many, and there have been some serious government in this country, but it doesn't give you the right to continue to create problems in the area where you decided to solve them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37886	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37887	The Honorable Minister, and this 44th member of the Board of Directors, sort of fits our concept where we want to point out that it was a mistake to set up another agency and make a misstep through the establishment of that agency. One proverb says: When a man gets on the wrong train, all his stations are wrong. This is proof that you are on the wrong path and I am absolutely certain that even these powers that you have predicted here will not contribute well to solving people's employment problems above all. What I want to underline again is the fact that you agree with, which is that a huge number of people representing local administrations today in Serbia in front of the SNS in the past three years have shown how badly they are doing. Also, it will not improve economic activities by doing some of its work in the coming period, and therefore we believe that this member should also be deleted and there will be no results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37888	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 35th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37889	Article 35. – the rights and obligations of directors and employees. That's what we had in Article 34, point 7, where it says the director decides on the rights and obligations of the employees. Then we now have a member of the 35th which is a special chapter, which is also unusual for one member to be a chapter, which says – rights, obligations and responsibilities from the employment relationship of employees in the agency and directors to apply general rules on work, if this law is not otherwise laid down. How can this law affect a general law that defines the rights and obligations of government employees? Can this law give some privileges to the people who work in this agency? Perhaps they can be protected from prosecution by the Director's decision, which would, of course, be against the law and against the Constitution. Maybe they can be protected from logical thinking. Maybe they can be protected from anything that should be their primary job. So we can smile, smile or do something like that to what I'm saying, but that's the point. You can't come with such a messy bill. We can fix you a little spelling, grammar, printing mistakes, but the essence of the law must be changed by you. So, Minister, listen to yourself older than you, more experienced than yourself, don't let yourself, you're relatively young in politics, that in the first, second year, the way you have in politics, make mistakes that will follow you all your life. Pull this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37890	Thank you. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 36th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37891	Article 36. - the agency's affairs, which should, of course, be before the director's election, because it would be logical to define first what the affairs of a legal entity, a state body, are, and then you're making an organization, selecting a staff. It's like buying hardware first, so you make software. No, software is first made, and then compared to what you need, you set a goal, so you continue the software to achieve that goal, and then you buy the hardware that you need for it. In this case are both directors and employees and board members of hardware, one human hardware, but still hardware. So he's working with the state authorities. First of all, it's the hardest thing to do right now. So, the agency, if it's a state body, has to co-operate with state authorities, organisations, public authorities, etc. Very unusual. Next, follow the application of this law and propose appropriate measures. In what way is he following? Does it affect whether he's law enforcement or following him for his own personal information, for his education, for what? It's unclear why. It participates in the preparation of programmes and projects for economic and regional development. Economic development? Isn't that your ministry's job, Mr. Minister? How are you going to turn this into this poor agency, where someone in the director's office who lost his ID card or found his ID card will have some problem with their identity anyway? You have to take responsibility. The state administration cannot transfer, especially ministers, members of the government to transfer their responsibility to others. It's running away from responsibility. It's unworthy of serious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37892	Time, thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37893	Incredibly, in many previous members, you are criticizing and asking where the coordination is, who will link local self-government, the Republic government, the state authorities, etc., and then when we get to the agency's jobs where the first point of reference is – co-operates with state authorities and organisations and public authorities, authorities of territorial autonomy, local self-government, in order to ensure conditions for the application of this law and other regulations governing issues of importance for improving economic development and investment... So the first and most important job is exactly what he's doing all this for. Normally, now I could describe every member here, and we have 22 members detailing the agency's affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37894	The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37895	Despite the fact that this transmission is not being broadcast directly, Serbian citizens should know that the ruling coalition has prepared the establishment of another agency, and that is true. The question is then raised in this Article 36. What are the jobs of the agency, and yet again, it is said that the agency will co-operate with local administrations, with the province institutions, etc. Then we're going back to the dilemma or the question of how do you think you're doing this co-operation, if you've admitted yourself that since three years ago you have very incompetent community presidents, that you have a very bad situation on the ground, that you don't have projects, that they simply don't understand the jobs they're responsible for, and that you know in the beginning that you won't have support? And through these discussions, we wanted to hear from you to admit that these mistakes you've made will no longer be made, and we don't think it's hard to admit that it was a mistake that you decided three years ago to introduce people who didn't deserve to be in power in some 120 cities and municipalities, through a famous transfer. To admit and make a mistake that you asked the agencies to be abolished and promised it to the citizens of Serbia three years ago. Serbian citizens expected that with 142 agencies that existed at the time, these agencies would be abolished. You've only lifted a few, I think three or four. Does this speak of your poor judgment or ignorance during that period when you made promises? Could the establishment of this agency be a confirmation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37896	Time. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37897	Article 107(1) Many times a repeated lie will not become true. Many times a repeated lie from Mr Markovic that the formation of more agencies will not become true. Many times a repeated lie to add some jobs will not become true because of the formation of one of the two agencies with 40% fewer people to the boards of directors and one agency is formed that will have one third of the employees compared to these two in which Mr Markovic and his like are filled with so many people that they can no longer go to the bathroom, because if they go to the bathroom, they will lose the chair where they sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37898	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Replica) Mr Markovic, I ask you to take the weekend and read the Rules of Procedure, because then you would know that there is no replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I ask you to watch this transmission and to see that I hold the Rules of Procedure in my hand. So I'm holding the Rules of Procedure, and you've turned your head. ) Mr Markovic, at no point did you call on the Rules of Procedure, nor did you say which member was injured, but you asked if I was entitled to the replica, here I was quoting you. I said you don't have a right to a replica because the Rules of Procedure have no right to a replica. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I am holding this Rules of Procedure, and you are turning your head. And now you're saying, I'm going to answer now, I'm going to look for a replica, so if I don't get a replica, then I'm going to check in with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic can't do that. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Please, I am looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm holding the Rules of Procedure and I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But you can't do that to Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Please, I am seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Four times I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Markovicu, the Serbian Parliament is a serious assembly and we cannot play with it that way. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: So, what is inconclusive that I am looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? It would be very serious if Mr. Babic had been asked to hurt his Rules of Procedure at the same time as the end of the exposure. That would be serious, but you asked and asked if you had the right to reply, and when I said you had no right, because you had no right to reply to the Rules of Procedure, then you remembered to call on the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic can't do that. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 36th amendment in the same text, the MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vuković and MP Ninoslav Stojadinović together. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37899	In Article 36(1) of point 5, the proposal, as amended and amended, therefore the existing point - is accredited and co-ordinated by regional development agencies and local development agencies. Just a little extra. This amendment can be a kind of test as far as possible to get out of this atmosphere of self-satisfaction and the sense of power that you can be so superior to the democratic minority in this parliament and the opportunity to step out and say, yes, we can accept an amendment that is completely logical and completes the structure of the central, regional and local authorities that have been released in the text and in the proposal of this law and this article. So nothing spectacular. It's not defined, and it's not as bad as our request to define criteria for people who run important institutions from education, experience, not being convicted, it's only required here to verify that people at the level of local self-government are included in this article. I think the minister will succeed and contribute to getting out of this and this kind of atmosphere in which every proposal of the opposition, which excludes microphones, is an introduction to the failed implementation of any law not only of this but of any law, because the democratic, creative capacities of this entire society or part of this society are being restricted. I think we should also preserve the dignity of this congregation, which you are very often invited to. I think we are in a position to get the consent of the minister who can accept this amendment before the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37900	Thank you. The dignity of this assembly is safeguarded if all MPs respect the Rules of Procedure, then the chairman has no need for anything to do. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37901	If it wasn't for the Law on Local Self-Government, we might be able to accept this amendment like this, but local development agencies are solely in the jurisdiction of local self-government, they are founded, controlled, virtually certified if they are given jobs. So we can't make an imperative standard where he's going to do it and do the Serbian Development Agency. So, exclusively legal interpretation of the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37902	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 36th amendment. The government and the Economic Committee, for regional development, trade, tourism and energy, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of the member and member of the 37th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37903	Funding for the establishment and operation of the agency, once again a whole chapter that has one member of the 37th and says – money is provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources of funding in accordance with the law, and I would like to hear what other sources of funding are. The means of work, this was for establishment, and for the Agency's work, are provided from the revenues made by performing business under its jurisdiction and from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources of funding in accordance with the law. My question for the minister, what are the other sources of funding in accordance with the law and for the establishment and operation of the agency, and the other ones that are incomes that are made by performing the tasks of the Agency? I've carefully read these 22 points that define the agency's jobs and I don't see anything that could bring income, hardly even this publishing activity can, believe there's no money, people know that, ask publishers. Now, this, he's doing other jobs, and maybe there's a little bit of money in there, and it looks something like that, but it's still written in accordance with the law, so it can't be there. Let's divorce that mystery. You will hardly be able to make some events, make trips for investors, convince them that we are beautiful, smart, that we are leading them to fly in Serbia or in these Bulgarian apartments. So we must generally give a clear answer to what this agency is financed from. It's perfectly legitimate for it to be just a budget, if the law were good, but generally I'd like to get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37904	Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37905	The respected citizens of Serbia, member of 37th, begin with the words – funds for the establishment of the agency are provided from, and so begin both previous members and similar members who are behind. You, Mr. Chairman, are silent when Mr. Babic wakes up after my discussion and says I lie and repeats the same word several times, and I won't let myself tell myself that he's lying... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37906	Mr. Markovic, you didn't get the right to a replica, you got the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37907	... If I read the law where the Agency's funds are said to be provided anyway. So this is about starting a new agency, and it's about three years ago saying we're going to cancel 142 agencies, you're doing it there, you're hiring that and that, etc., this is all we hear today and tonight. Then how is it possible that only three agencies have been abolished in the last three years? How is it possible, then, that even today when we talk about this law, you will not accept a mistake that you have sinned or when you made those promises or when you start another agency. When were you wrong, Mr. Granny? (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: That's what you said a hundred times, come on something new. Next thing you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37908	Mr. Markovic, please do not address the MP, you have no right to do so under the Rules of Procedure, you will speak to me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37909	How is it possible that he has the right to directly address me to say that I lie, repeatedly, to mention that I am psychic and such things, you do not react, and you react if I mention him. That's already, Mr. Granny the fifth time, isn't it? If you didn't get a good look at this the fifth time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37910	Mr. Markovic, I'll wait until your time is up and then I'll say what I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37911	You're interrupting me all the time. How can you expect me to finish my sentence properly?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37912	I asked you to read the Rules of Procedure, then you would see what the duties of MPs are, what are the duties of the chairman and then you would know why I interrupt you and everything else. So, Mr. Markovic, I didn't say that in your presentation, explaining why you submitted this amendment, you had no opportunity, the right to speak to Mr. Babic and what was said by the MPs to comment, but you have no right to address him directly, you can only address me as chairman, I just said that. And why didn't you tell him? ) Mr Babić did not address you, but Mr Babic said, he paid attention, in fact he commented on your presentation and felt that you did not tell the truth in your presentation. And you're okay with him saying I'm lying? It's not worth it, Mr. Markovic. I have to move on. It's not worth explaining to you and plowing because you don't understand what I'm saying. It's like talking two different languages. I thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: you're okay with him saying I'm lying? ) Mr Markovic, I said that in his presentation everyone can comment on the presentation in the National Assembly, and if someone does not think that someone has told the truth, there are arguments for that, each MP has the right to discuss it, Mr Markovic. I cannot prevent MPs, if they have arguments, and apparently Mr Babic has arguments about it, because we understand very well that there are no new agencies in place, and that no new agency is set up, but two existing agencies are creating one new agency. And it's okay for him to say I'm lying? ) So, not the old agencies, not the creation of a new agency, the nemo three agencies, but we have two agencies, one that will have far fewer employees than there were two. That's what I've been explaining to you all along, you don't understand, you're pushing yours, and then it bothers you when someone makes arguments about what you're saying isn't true. Don't make me expose the MPs to the censorship and simply make them say what you like. I can't do this as president. Unfortunately, Mr. Markovic. No, Mr. Markovic, before I give my word to Mr. Babic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and chairman of today's session in the most important part, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, is now, you have done this to Mr. Becic, you have violated Article 108. The Rules of Procedure, because Article 37 of this Bill writes – funds for the establishment of the Agency, writes funds for the establishment of the Agency, respected gentlemen, so there is no foundation of anything that already does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37914	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 38th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37915	A chapter with one member says conflict of interest and a ban on competition. I read the wrong corruption, and unfortunately, it's only competition. In principle, it is the same as a member per metre, which is otherwise put into these laws. It would make sense that the law makes sense to write here, but it's not about conflict of interest. It says here that the director of the agency and the employees can't start a work relationship when they stop working at the agency. But, Mr. Minister, the question is whether they can work, director and employees at the agency, if they can work for someone else while they're working at the agency, doesn't say that they can't after leaving, after the term of office or those working relationships. I have, say, fresh examples of abuse. For example, the head of the Belgrade mayor's cabinet works in ER Serbia. It's a flyin' chef. The Belgrade mayor works for some of the company's shorts, in APR Bulgaria, there writes beautifully and is not counterfeited. Mr. Zivkovic, I'm saying right now if someone who performs a public function can do something else at the same time? He can't, he can't even... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37916	You say he can't, and it's okay... but do not deviate from the agenda and from the topic and amendments you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37917	... Please teach someone else. The question is very simple, can someone work elsewhere in the course of abuse or use or public function? MPs have to transfer their ownership rights, property rights to someone else, and here we have daily examples of who doesn't know who does everything. So my question is whether and where... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37918	You'll need a question in the day for questions, Tuesdays and Thursdays. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Sertic, distinguished guests, of course we use the opportunity to ask questions to ministers, and we would also ask the Prime Minister if one last Thursday would come in the month. Next week we're expecting the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37920	Mr. Pavicevic, do you want to talk about the name of member and member 38?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37921	Yes, I do. And, behold, I remind Minister Sertic to answer the question of MP Zorn Zivkovic, who is in a direct relationship, Mr Becic, with our amendment to Article 38, to hear and Mr Babic, who is now throwing – and the amendment? It's an amendment, gentlemen. Questions related to the amendment have been asked... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37922	Because we don't understand each other, Mr. Pavicevic. I keep asking you to talk about the amendment you submitted. If you don't know what amendment you've submitted, I can read it. On behalf of the member and member of the 38th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. It reads - the name of the member and the Article 38 are deleted. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: A in relation to Article 15) It doesn't say Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He writes in the explanation – there is a coordination. We as chairman have no explanation, for that would be too much. We don't, unfortunately. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37923	The honourable Members of the 38th define a very important area for which I personally do not know that there exists in any of these 142 agencies that have been established so far, which is that we have limited the possibility that anyone, who is employed or director, for some reason, should leave the agency or any employee who wants to leave, that he may go away and give all the business secrets, all the knowledge, all the information he has, can cash out afterwards in some private organization or any international organization, which is happening today. I think we should be commended for this strict relationship, because we're again guarding the state's interest. So, by no means would your proposal for an amendment that reads Article 38 is deleted, it's completely contrary to this and in this way, you would actually return that bang so that the next day whoever leaves the agency can get a job anywhere else and work again for his interests, not in the interest of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37924	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37925	Article 27, I could quote some other members, but I won't, since I might use them later. Article 27(2) - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. So, the chairman, you harshly violate the Rules of Procedure, because you do not allow MPs to explain their amendments in two minutes, as far as they have the right to do so. You are measuringly deciding whether you consider it to be to explain this amendment or whether it is not in favor of the Government and the Minister who sits here and you take away the word for half the time or not. It's never happened in this congregation, it never happened. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Ask Chomićka. ) It is possible that someone may later point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you are obliged to give the MP the opportunity, now Mr. Babic is shouting, talking, etc. I can't concentrate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37926	Since the Rules of Procedure say up to two minutes, here's what you wanted to tell me, which you wanted to point out, which member of the Rules of Procedure, you explained it to. If you tell me that according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right, as in this case, Mr Pavicevic, who reported to explain his amendment and talked about the need for the minister to answer Mr Zivkovic's question, although you say that he was then talking about it, here, then I will ask the MPs who here at this very moment do not understand how the National Assembly should function. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Did he have an offensive attitude... But he wasn't talking about Mr. Veselinovic, he wasn't talking about the amendment he submitted to article 38 if you think everyone should talk in the National Assembly about what came to his mind... (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: This is what MPs of the post say. ) I believe you do not understand that the word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Zivkovic, there is no replica on Mr. Veselinović's exposure, because there is no replica to indicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure So, how now at this point? [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: How can the replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]] Whose exhibit are you looking for a replica? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: At the Minister's office. When did Mr. Minister mention you? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: When the minister spoke. ) Not to mention Mr. Zivkovic's name. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You didn't mention the name, sure? (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: I did not... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: And who were you talking about? ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 109 of Position 1 which says, among other things, the reminder is given to a MP who, in addition to warning the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. I also advertise Article 105, paragraph 2. The MP speaks from the MP's seat in the National Assembly session room after receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly. For a long time, Mr. Chairman, you have tolerated Mr. Markovic, Mr. Pavicevic, Mr. Veseinovic, who take his own word without your approval and who speak, that is, obstructing other MPs by throwing their arguments with you. They have no right to do that, whether the microphone is on or if the microphone isn't on. I don't know if you've left yellow or red cardboard somewhere at home, but I think it's time you gave one note, since you've repeatedly warned MP Pavicevic not to talk about the issue that's on the agenda, and I think they've matured the conditions to apply this provision, to take out that yellow card and show one warning, that's better than breaking into a fight, because it can lead to ignorance when you're arguing with the ignorant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37928	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I'm trying to understand that some MPs can't learn the Rules of Procedure despite requests, despite all their duties and obligations, they can't learn the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm trying to have that understanding, they may not have time, they may have some other obligations, but I hope that I will eventually succeed, that one weekend they will sit down, learn, know what their rights and obligations are, and all of what you have objected to is no longer happening in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, as the distinguished Dr Pavicevic says. So here I am trying not to impose penalties on today, but it looks like I'm going to have to go through 22 hours, and we're going to have to resort to those measures. Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37929	Dear Ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, member of the 38th start, says – The agency's director has a status as officials in terms of the law which determines the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions in the follow-up of the agency, etc.; which confirms my claim that the ruling coalition, that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministry have decided to establish another agency. It confirms that I was right and all the time I'm talking about that the SNS didn't honor its promises to the citizens of Serbia, when she said three years ago that she was going to abolish 142 agencies, they not only did not lift those agencies, they only suspended three, they started new ones, and instead of saying Mr. in Babić that I'm right when I say that, you tolerate his very ugly expressions and offensive ones, you laugh at it as you do now, you look at the words "unknowledge, lies", etc. And you're making a circus out of this assembly, just like now that I'm talking and of course you're talking about some other issues with your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37930	Thank you. I heard everything and understood Mr. Markovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37931	Replicant chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37932	Here you can see I've heard you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37933	Of course. Whether the time has expired and how he has exercised power and what he has done and how citizens are satisfied or dissatisfied with showing citizens in the elections. As the radio promoter, one of the promoters, in fact, both amendment promoters said in the elections that they said they didn't want them anymore. Many times a lie, Mr. Chairman, will not become true and as long as the amendment's proposings have no arguments to defend any of the amendments, talk about everything and everything, mentioning me and my family and anything else, I will mention what's true. One agency is formed, two are shut down. Of the eight board members, there will now be five board members. Of the 150 employees on a different basis, it will now be 50 employees and I think that the one with the IQ below 50, I think he would have understood and accepted it by now as a fact and as a truth, but those who have either a smaller IQ than the number of shoes that they wear or don't want to understand or want with the amount of lies and falses being told here think it's going to become true, and I think that's more talking about them than the bill promoter, than the SNS that meets what we promised Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37934	Thank you, Mr. Granny. To Article 38... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, I am looking for a replica. Are you answering the Rules of Procedure? You can't do that, Mr. Markovic. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: I am saddening the replica, and if I can't replica, then according to the Rules of Procedure.]] First, because Mr. Babic is very skillful, he spoke about the amendments and now I can't know if he was thinking about you or Mr. Sutanovac, that's first. He didn't mention your name as well as his, and as far as that goes, you can't say it like that, now a little bit - whether I can get a replica, and if I don't get a replica, then I'll answer the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Since you are not looking at me, then I must say both. No, no, I'm looking at you, I see you've raised the Rules of Procedure. That's why I asked you, since you're looking for a replica and you're raising the Rules of Procedure, it has nothing to do with each other. But since you said that if you don't get a line, then you're reporting to the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. You will point to a member I have broken, but I will not allow you, Mr. Markovic, to use the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37935	Mr. Chairman, I call on the 107th member to speak of the dignity of the National Assembly, in a second position, of using offensive terms to his fellow Members. I know that I will find it difficult to convince you that it is offensive that my colleague Babic, the amendment promoters, is insulting in the context of intelligence, 50% of the average or lower than the number of shoes he wears. Whether you hear it or not, that's another question. Whether you understand it or not, that's another question again, and I know it's very difficult for me to convince you that it's offensive, because it suits you. The whole time Mr. Babic talks like that, you're like, or with your smile, you're giving support to people who talk like that about their colleagues, and it probably suits you at this very moment... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37936	Enough, Mr. Markovic. Here, you see, I am completely looking at you and I am listening very carefully to what you're saying, but that you, Mr. Markovic, speak honestly, you would say today that a lot of offensive expressions are being addressed to lawmakers, as you say offensive expressions are being addressed to individual amendment promoters. So, you have insults both on the one hand and on the other and then you expect the chairman to be a judge and say, these insults are fine, and these insults are wrong. Mr. Markovic, to prove this to you, you will take after this debate of the steno note and you will be able to see in them every statement and every word of yours, an offensive expression and all that you have said during today's debate. You will be amazed at how bad it is and how much you will realize that it is not like a national MP and does not seem to be listening to it. I cannot explain differently to you that we, as chairman, see on one side and on the other how the MPs treat each other, except to take the steno-bels and determine it yourself. I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 38th amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 39th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37937	Same question. This member deals with business secrets and information. What kind of business secret can be in an authority of government that doesn't have any inspection or research function or anything that would be at the level of official secrecy, business secrets or information that's confidential? What's this agency doing? Are you building an agency for Serbia's development or are you building an agency that has secrets? That's the same question. Secondly, before I ask you, did I offend you somehow, Mr. Minister? You are defending the legislator of this law, the government of Serbia. Did I offend you today in any way? I didn't. Therefore, the chairman, don't transfer it to any of the general places. If you think someone is insulting someone, you punish them, and don't throw that one curse or one bad expression at everyone. That's not good. This does not create those high standards that are necessary for the respect of the secret under Article 39 of the Law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37938	Mr. Zivkovic, were you looking for a replica or did you answer to explain the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37939	I am using my two minutes on the amendment in a way that is appropriate to the behaviour of the MP in the Serbian Parliament and since you said that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37940	But it is also true for you, Mr. Zivkovic, to take the steno notes and see all the words and all the offensive expressions you've said in today's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37941	You can't go into my word in any way. There is not a single member of the Rules of Procedure who gives you the right to enter a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37942	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37943	You can't get in my word when I'm talking about the subject. Finally, the Rules of Procedure can teach anyone if you've taught him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37944	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, I'm not going down to that level, except I'm going to read article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. It's no use, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I think this time my fellow farmer is right, so his pruning chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37946	Please, Mr. Risticevic, let's get serious. You really respect this high house. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, have submitted an amendment to Article 39 to hear both Mr. Becic and Mr. Babic and the other gentlemen, concerning the ban on the abuse of information. We, Mr. Becic, have explained this amendment to Article 39, which is now a subject, under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. Our argument reads this way - the amendment submitted is in line with the amendment to Article 15. The bill, and in Article 15, we have proposed that two bodies remain, not that we now have other bodies, to remain the ministry responsible for business and local economic development units. Here, Mr. Sertic confirms it now, and indeed the man has been following this debate all day. It's supposed to be recorded here. But what did we hear as an argument against our amendment to Article 39? We heard Mr. Babic's argument, Mr. Becic, supported by Mr. Sertic, and Mr. Babic called on an economist whose name we didn't hear, but now it's some anonymous authority, which we now need to trust the team with regard to, gentlemen. When I refer to authority, such as President of our Council, Professor Vesna Rakić or as the author of our Bill on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, Mr Marin Krešić. I make very clear the names of those authorities, that every man here can know who it is, and I don't use an argument like Mr. Babic in this case, calling the person we can't know about, Mr. Becic, or what it's called. Well, is that appropriate in our work in our National Assembly? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37948	You see, Mr. Pavicevic, I was just in the first minute hoping that you would be talking about the agenda and you were talking about the agenda for the first minute and then you strayed who knows where and mentioned two members of the New Party. I'd like you to mention the third one next time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37949	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I am today, and in this thirteenth hour of debate I learned something, and I learned that there are two more members of the New Party. It's progress, a civilization step and of course someone can call and mention a member of their party. But what I want to tell you and what I'm doing and what I'm going to do in the future is to consult with people who are not members of the SNS, who are independent intellectuals, top experts, and until I get their authority to mention them, I won't do that, because that's part of a culture, a culture we haven't heard before. I think it's much more dangerous, Mr. Chairman, because the previous speaker has spoken, I guess in a desire to challenge a series of replicas, and said—gentlemen from the SNS. Here sits a dozen MPs, respected colleagues of the SNS, and it is bad when someone does not support the presence of ladies in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's bad when someone talks only to "ma'am" and doesn't want to see my distinguished colleagues who I am very grateful for because they've brought a lot of wisdom into both the Serbian Parliament and Serbian politics, a lot of quality, a lot of energy, and it's bad when someone doesn't want to see the presence of ladies in the SNS parliamentary group. Dear colleagues, I know there won't be an apology on the other hand, and here I apologize to you on behalf of the previous speaker because he doesn't want to see your presence, but also what you're doing at SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37950	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Two minutes' worth of replica expired. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37951	Lawmakers are generally against this law, and we understand that from the numerous statements you have made, and then in some amendments, in some members, usually where a point, point or some grammatical correction is done, you've given your purpose to make that member look more written, different, and better. I thank you for that, and we've accepted everything. However, on this logic, given that the proposed member of the 39th proposed erasing the whole member, I can only conclude that the promoters actually want to continue practice that our employees in state agencies amount to and sell secrets. This has been happening all the time, to provide important information from the state authorities, earning extra income, and we want to make our employees be honest citizens, be good employees, be responsible for the state they work in. The whole article, which I am about to read now, is at least the first part, completely turned to it, so – persons in the agency who have information that represents a business secret, in terms of rules on keeping business secrets or confidential information, in terms of the rules on the capital market, must not use the same to acquire property benefits or other benefits for themselves and third parties, or in such a way to harm the institutions or companies to which they apply and have an obligation to protect them. This is the policy of the SNS and the Government of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37952	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Why do you think you're right, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Because he talks about the amendments. He didn't mention your name or your last name, nor your offensive expression. I would tolerate the act if you had the right to a replica if it had been offensively spoken of by the amendment's promoters, although no name and last name was mentioned, but it wasn't. The minister explained, as a representative of the government, which is why he believes this amendment should be rejected, nothing more. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37953	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and Guests, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I'm reporting for the amendment, and of course I won't accept such an amendment, which says that the ban on misuse of information is deleted. In voting day, I will not support such an amendment, and I will mention the struggle of gender equality. Once, the Honorable Chairman, I told my fellow applicant of the amendment that we should not lose the most beautiful qualities of a woman, that a woman remains a gentler sex, and that a man remains a gentleman and a gentleman, and my colleague has lost that quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37954	Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic. I'd be happy to give you the right to a replica, but I don't know which of the amendment's proposings did this to the lady. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the member and member of the 40th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37955	This member deals with a record run by the agency. I've already talked about that record being found from the APR, statistics, from the National Bank. They're all places where there's all the investment data, whether they're connected to the Greenfield, the Brownfield, the purchase of capital, the purchase of shares, any of it. But in order for that agency to do something, you have to invent something and run that analysis, and I said someone should already sit down and hit the lines when and what they did. It's a very bad thing. It's a good thing we had this article in 39, and the minister said it would cut off the practice of someone misusing knowledge acquired from the agency. Let's just say, I know one example. One person worked as the head of the tender at the Privatisation Agency, so after six months she went to work at the firm, whose privatisation was made right before that, and is now the mayor of Belgrade. I hear he's still doing some work in a similar way. Check it out in your biography.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37956	Please, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37957	Privatisation of "Lukoila" and employment in "Lukoil" Mali Sinishi. So it's a good thing there's a member like this. Generally, of course, it won't fix this whole law. So, according to article 40, the agency deals with imaginary jobs that you can find in, I repeat, statistics, the National Bank, the APR, the Institute of Social, Pensions, wherever you want. So, the project investment support team records. It's one important piece of information to create a project team that will be recorded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37958	The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, my part of the argument for this amendment, which MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to Article 40, Mr Bečić, I dedicate to the MP Sonja Vlahovic and support her struggle for gender equality in this National Assembly and otherwise. We have submitted an amendment to Article 40...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37960	Mr Pavicevic, you know the Rules of Procedure and you know that you cannot address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37961	No, I dedicated my part of the argument to the MP. I think that's appropriate, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37962	You'll have to go through me, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37963	Our amendment to Article 40 reads, Minister Sertic knows it very well, because here he understands best what our proposal for amending this bill was to delete it. I'll remind Minister Sertic of one part of the argument we used this morning. I will remind him of his words repeated several times here in the National Assembly, and on this part of this bill – that the economy of a reform government should be above and ahead of politics. Our entire debate, which lasts 13 hours already, but thanks primarily to the opposition's actions, gentlemen, because we have submitted amendments, because we have analysed this bill in detail, because we have been participating here since 10 o'clock this morning, our idea was not to work politics over the economy, Mr Sertic, but to follow the words. It is a behavior that is in line with the principle of ethics of responsibility which is for us, Mr. Becic, in politics one of the most important, respected gentlemen and ladies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37964	Mr. Pavicevic, I was sincerely hoping that when you returned to the National Assembly, at 10:00 p.m., you would finally start talking about the agenda and the amendments you submitted, and you again were talking about ethics, norms, general behaviors. There's nothing you can say about the explanation of the amendments you've submitted. I understand why you're doing this. You give arguments to others or those arguments that you consider to be arguments, and then nothing remains for you, but you will have to change that tactics, Mr. Pavicevic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37965	Dear MPs, right now I really can't help feeling surprised or offended at least minimally. If you say so, I'll try to quote you -- find something for the Agency to do. If we spent a year, we, I say, so almost a hundred people from Serbia, abroad, using the best practice in the world. If we've gone through all the bodies of this country, if we've done a huge part of the work to form a system and an institutional framework that will be much more quality, much better than today, and we've defined the very clear and precise obligations of each participant in this process and defined in Article 40 what the Agency is doing, which are extremely important to us, to have good analysis, and based on the good analysis that we don't have in the country for the past 15 years, we can also create some future things, and you're saying that it's just written that something is found to do. I will remind you of three key things that are written here – the Agency keeps track of project teams to support investment; under two – investment programme records; and under three – records of the implementation of the investment. You have all spent many years in power, and you have personally been a very high official of this state. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You're talking to me? That's right, I'm talking to you, so you're free to replicate. You, as former prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, should know what the business of the Agency for Business Registers is and that none of these things that are written here are part of the obligations, of the tasks of the Agency for Economic Registers. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37966	You have the right to a replica, since the minister assured me that he was talking about you. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37967	Dear Minister, what's new about this agency's work, and if it hadn't already been for these two agencies that you're shutting down to make this new one. It's all the same, you just made a hybrid. So, you and I both know that there's nothing essential about it and that's complete, records, so Nusic has an administrative secretary doing it. In the 21st century, you have a problem with getting investment information in Serbia, establishing new businesses in the 21st century, so someone's hiding it from you. I hope you're capable enough that if there's such dark silk, you'll fight it and get the information you need. Here I can give you all the information you need from that area. You can read the reports of the National Bank, the Privatisation Agency, I repeat the Department of Statistics of the State, there are a lot of sources you just need to try a little bit. There's no sign of that in the army either. And there are machines there that deal with it. So this is one, as I say, we wouldn't be against the law if we thought he was helping Serbia. Why would anyone in Serbia be against something that is for Serbia's sake. They don't even exist in your ranks. Therefore, of course we all want Serbia to be better, but then something serious must be done. You have to do something that makes sense, you have to do something that has a foothold in a healthy logic, if not in something more important than that. So, Mr. Minister, don't be afraid of what I tell you, that's all for your own good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37968	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: You were against Serbia. Was and stayed. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37969	Who threw it? You? What's your name? You want to stop him from throwing? I hear he throws it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37970	Mr. Zivkovic, I hear you're throwing MPs on the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37971	How can I throw?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37972	The MPs on the right are earning, returning to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37973	I'm not throwing, but we're not... (The National MP points to a microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37974	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37975	Dear Members of the United States... People's MPs are getting used to it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37976	I ask the MPs to allow the minister to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37977	Dear MPs, after almost a decade and a half, we were left with broken-down companies, false promises, billions made to restructure companies, false hopes were given to people who worked in these businesses that they would have a wonderful future with the support they received at that moment, and almost all the institutions of the state were destroyed. That's why we're leaking data from state institutions, which is why we couldn't get the SIEPU or the National Regional Development Agency in line, because the laws are so written that everyone has more rights than those who operate this country. I can't accept in any way, and I just don't know how to describe Mr. Babic now, the people who participated in the government and who should know what those agencies that opened and founded over 140, I don't think there's a country in Europe with so many agencies, and they don't know what their powers are and that none of these elements that we put into the law could be found. Elemental stuff. Then we're told here -- here, to find something, to do something, some agency, you put in some records. It's the humiliation of all the people who participated, it's the humiliation of both the economy and domestic businessmen and foreign businessmen and people from the World Bank and the IMF...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37978	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away and behave yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37979	... And all those who have confirmed that this is one of the best laws in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37980	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37981	Mr. Chairman, the recent presentation of one of the amendments is for the annals not only of the Serbian political scene, for the annals of the world political scene. Accusing the second, in this case, mayor of Belgrade, he accuses himself and admits to himself that he was doing some unholy things. Accusing others of unholy things in the privatisation of Beopetrol, he actually admitted to himself because he was Prime Minister when he privatised "Beoptrol", he admitted that he worked dishonestly. I ask and appeal to the state's investigative authorities to take that recording, to take that confession and to comply with the laws of this country and respond. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, why do you wonder why you're asking to delete this member? It is said in point 3 of Article 1(3) that the Agency is obliged to keep records of the implementation of the investment implementation controls carried out. They're slow, Mr. Ministers of Investment Management, because it's nice to get 500,000 euros, 525,000 euros in subsidies, and even better if no one comes to count the chocolates. That's what the amendment promoter actually wants. That funds are given without any control of the investment made. Where does the APR Act say he keeps a record of project investment support teams? Where does the National Bank Act say, I am sure that Mr Arsic can lecture us all here, to keep records of investment programmes, or, most controversially for the amendment promoter, and most needed for the SNS and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a record of the implementation of the investment implementation controls? It's enough to give money wherever and whoever it is without seeing any effect from these subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37982	Did you recognize yourself in these criminal acts? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37983	Of course I recognized myself, because I have nothing to be ashamed of. I've already said about the vineyard a little before – whenever it takes, as long as it takes, don't be afraid of the hoard, there are now more modern means. Do not be afraid of what you will do when you lose this function you have – they will find you a job, because everyone in this country needs to be employed. And of course I'm proud of the time when I had the privilege and the obligation to perform some important functions. These are the times that will be remembered by the return of the rule of law, because in those two or three years Serbia's public debt has been reduced by five billion to nine billion, which is three times less than it is now; that it has been condemned insufficiently, of course, it is obvious and we will repeat that. It is true that the "Sabbe" action did not cut everything it needed but to fix it. The fight against crime is eternal. It can never stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37984	These are threats, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37985	I answer questions. Fighting crime is a threat to you? I don't think you should be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37986	Mr. Zivkovic, that "Sablja" did not cut everything he needed and that he should cut.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37987	Of course, it's called a metaphor and you'll learn that eventually. I'm asking you to let me answer the line. You didn't get the line, I did. So I'm proud of that time. Then foreign direct investments are measured by conservative methods, not now, as measured over the last two years, where everything, and a paid lunch, foreign investment, but by old conservative methods, investments were four times larger than this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37988	Time. I thought I'd never live to hear that "Sabbe" was the rule of law. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a very timid man and I am advertising Article 107 of Section 2 that it is forbidden to use offensive expressions. The threat is an offensive expression to me. Especially when it's directed by the person for whom I've read the reports of the highest state authorities here, for the person who participated in the division of weapons of the Zemun and the Surcin clan. If we add that this is a threat to the person who smuggled weapons in 1999, international arms smuggling according to SSNO reports, Mr. Chairman, you are obliged to protect us because these wartime lifers may have left some supplies, and the only of them, from wartime profiteers, are worse ones. And I think it's about the same person. That's why you're obliged to protect us from such threats, especially us who are a little more timid, so we're afraid, especially armed people, who, behold, are not going on a polygraph, here, they're not going on a TV duel, here, they're not going into the military, but guns and guns will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37990	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I don't know how to protect you, when I'm a little afraid something's missing, something's not buried. But I guess we'll deal with it, Mr. Risticevic, and we'll stop being afraid. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37991	Mr. Chairman, there's one saying in my neighborhood, I'm not going to tell it all, I'm going to say only the first half, and I'm going to leave it to all of you, and I'm going to leave it to those who are watching us now, to finish it off – what's the smart one... On the other hand, the fact that someone wants us to be afraid, metaphorically or otherwise, whether of the hoard or of something else, the disruptor, Mr. Chairman, has fed and preserved our Serbia in very difficult times. No need to be ashamed of motives. No honorable business should be ashamed of. We should not be ashamed of ours and the people who live in the country and the ones who don't now, but tomorrow morning, maybe even before we wake up, they'll catch the same hoard and go to the greenhouse, to the field or work that same hoax. And to those who try to threaten with a pest, I can only say that I fear only the Lord God and nothing else. The rule of law. And what about the rights of 11.970 people who were arrested in "Sablja", who were detained for several months, who were not convicted, who were not charged? Most of them were political inexperiences and were used for political accounts, but what's worse, which is because of the lack of basic human rights of these people, our country and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have paid the damages measured by millions of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37992	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You forgot to tell me who got a lot of money from the damages from this country. And on that note of yours, Mr. Granny, I don't think anyone here is afraid of the disruptors, but of the weapons that were divided by the Surchin and the Zemun clan, we must be afraid. Thank you. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37993	The respected citizens of Serbia, in article 40, are talking about a record of an agency that is not based on claims that we heard from Mr Babic and SNS MPs tonight. I, unlike many other MPs, believe that the records should be kept. Mr. Minister, let's say you have an example of "Lives." It was a city that made major infrastructure shifts between 2008 and 2012. We worked on 40 very important and important projects and ended up the best dump in the Balkans, a thermal pipeline, streets, stadium, swimming pool, customs, a free zone, we did a dairy market, archives, etc., a lot of things. So, when we list 40 projects and that, Mr. Babici, the citizens of Užica remember well, they recorded it. You've made many mistakes with that claim of yours...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37994	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37995	I apologize for speaking to him directly, but I just wanted to say that the man has been wrong more than once, talking about the results of the election in Uzic with very incorrect data and claims that the citizens have assessed, the ones who went to the polls...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37996	But, Mr. Markovic, what are you saying has something to do with article 40 and your amendment where you're looking to delete that member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37997	I think it's very important that people who talk about other people have that in mind, and if they looked at that record, they would know that the elections were in Uzica four years ago, in such a way that I got 30% of the support, unlike those people that you later set, who are all that we're together... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37998	Mr. Markovic, I believe that you think it is very important to be heard now by the citizens of Užica, but the citizens of Užica know very well who is who, so I ask you to get back on the subject anyway. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I ask you to give me back my time.) I can't, Mr. Markovic, you spent it talking about Uzic, not explaining your amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I am talking about the fact that it is very important that there are records of people who decide, that the citizens of Serbia know how... ) On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u37999	Of course, that the citizens of Užica know that Joca Markovic was a good mayor but in Article 41, the agency can propose to the ministry that in the process of overseeing the work of the authorities in accordance with the regulations governing the state administration should the failure of the work by the authorities cause adverse consequences in the economy. I don't mind barking at all. So my question is, who's in charge here, does the agency exercise surveillance or does the ministry exercise surveillance, Mr. Minister? It's supposed to be the Ministry, but from a formula like this, it's very difficult to understand, so I'm asking you. The Agency shall publish a proposal for a measure referred to in Article 1 on its website. So, the agency is proposing measures to the ministry to take over trusted businesses or she's doing it herself. I'd like to get an answer to that question. Of course, it's logical that surveillance is performed, I repeat, by the Ministry, but on the other hand it's not clearly seen from this Article 41. So you have five, six, seven, eight more and continue to enjoy that throw... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: If your Legion were there, you would never be stronger. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38000	Please allow Mr. Zivkovic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38001	This Legion played chess with your boss whose member you were up until recently and don't scare me to the Legion, I drove it to jail, but you're afraid of telling a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38002	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38003	Mr. Chairman, I know that we are in the thirteenth hour of the session and I know that attention and concentration are falling, but just before, Mr. Zivkovic has called all the MPs here present, and even fellow Members of the People's Parliament to be called dogs. If that's not enough reason not for punishment but for one permanent hospitalization, then I don't know what more than reason to count. As long as there's going to be more of that insult. As long as that humiliation goes from one political debauchery, hatred, one disgusting feeling he's brought in here from the moment he took an oath for a MP. Did such an insult ever take place on our part, or did they take pictures when he and the Legion danced in the Tower at various concerts? What now should be such things as fact, here I thank you and now for what he said – cattle. Whether it's one insufficient reason or not we've heard it. All those who speak in Serbia are true for Zivkovic cattle and dogs, is that for the National Assembly? Is such a Snoopy for the National Assembly who knows nothing but to insult? Humiliate? As he did, he also went to a party that took place in both the government and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What do we expect here? To smuggle some kind of gun and shoot us here? Was a few victims filed in Serbia? Some victims have also fallen in this National Assembly. Here, I accept, I will be the target instead of the others, but these are truly catastrophic things that are going on and not sanctioned by you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38004	I accept, Mr. Granny, but I was shocked by the sentence... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: shock yourself and punish yourself. I was shocked by the sentence when one who should pray to God every day for the Legion not to speak says that he would like the Legion to speak. So I didn't react, I apologize. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38005	Dear Chairman, thank you. Dear Ministers, thank you for your patience for this debate. I'll speak for the amendment. So this amendment doesn't have to be accepted. You can see clearly from the last sentence of the law, and the citizens of Užica know best if you do not control what the consequences can be of the economy and the population, so they did not have drinking water at this time last year because someone did not control what is being done at the source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38006	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. What a replica, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the city. Let's just say what Mrs. Raconjac is talking to me about. When did Mrs. Rakonjac speak to you? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Just 20 seconds ago. ) If you have recognized that someone has allowed bad water to be in Uzica, if you have recognized yourself there, I will give you the right to a replica. I don't want to recognize you that way, so you have no right. At the 41st Amendment in the same text, the MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted together. He's got a word? Who? I don't have anyone in the system. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Do I have to stand like this because you can't see me? The fact that you're standing doesn't mean anything if you don't log into the system. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I think I'm registered in the system. What you think you've been reported in the system, I can't do anything, I don't see you in the system. I can see you now, but before that, there is a word for Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic's injury to the Rules of Procedure. It's an advantage, if you understand that's how it works in the Rules of Procedure. You need to find someone from your MP group to explain to you every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38007	Dear People's MPs, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Sertic, the distinguished guest, was injured by a member of the 108st Mr. Becic because of the previous amendment that I applied for as a proposal to take advantage of my two minutes, I was not given the right to speak, and I was in the system because my system shows that I was registered. Please, let's just go back to that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38008	Mr. Pavicevic, you know how much I respect you, and if you were in the system, you'd get the word. So I'm so sorry. The word is Mr Jovan Markovic, according to the amendment 41, which he submitted with a group of MPs. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I want you to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38009	A member of Serbia's 41st respected citizens says the agency can propose to the ministry at a certain point in time to take over trusted businesses if failure to do business by authorities could cause adverse economic consequences. I want to support this member of the law in the sense that it was really necessary and necessary to predict something like this in other ministries. And about Užice, as an example of what I mean, and in the context of this member, it is precisely that that fact that earlier legal solutions would not have come into the situation if, a month ago, Minister Mihajlovic, through a letter, had been notified to the citizens of Užica, that they had lost a large donation of 15.5m euros in waste water treatment. So, due to the inability of the local administration to solve that donation for three years, the ministry had to inform them to give up the project, that there was a member like this, Mr. Chairman. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38010	Well, the problem is that MPs rightly resent that you don't talk about the subject, so here's the problem. Here, I don't appreciate it, I didn't tell you anything until a lot of MPs pointed out that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure now because I allow you to speak out of the question. If the MPs hadn't rebelled and pointed out that I was breaking the Rules of Procedure, I wouldn't have told you anything. I would tolerate you from reporting in nonstop violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would interpret it simply as a simple man cannot teach the Rules of Procedure, understand anything, and I would let you speak. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: your insult tonight, all the time.) You insult me because you do not allow me to lead this congregation as chairman, for you keep reporting from the scene. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I am reporting by amendment. You want me to punish you now, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why? Because you're speaking from the scene, and you didn't get the word. You're talking, and you didn't get the word, that's why. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You took my word. ) Do you have the microphone on, do you have the word. You don't, according to the Rules of Procedure, not to read a member to you right now, that's punishable. You're out of time, Mr. Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Pavicevic. You've reached Sir, and Markovic can read Article 105 in the meantime. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic, it's almost 23 hours, we're working over 12 hours, you have to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the distinguished Minister Sertic and the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, were injured by members of 161 and 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I have not missed this violation of the Rules of Procedure. Despite the fact that we are entering the finals of 13 hours of debate under amendments to the proposal for a law on investment, gentlemen. Mr. Becicu, you have just violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have argued that Mr. Jovan Markovic is in breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have announced that there are large numbers of MPs coming forward to indicate that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure and not the MPs, but only Mr. Martinovic. So, Mr. Martinovic threw and said, "Breaking the Rules of Procedure" and something like that, and then you're Mr.... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38012	Very close, Mr Pavicevic, you have an ocular office, if you do not see well at 23 hours that a large number of MPs, among other things Mr Martinovic, pointed out... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Take a break. I'm taking a break. Here, in this case Mr. Veselinovic does not allow us to continue the debate. Break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic submitted to the 41st amendment. Government and Committee on Economic and Regional Development... (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I didn't have you in the system. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development and Energy accepted the amendment. I'm warning Mr. Veselinović. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is it in the record that a warning was given to Mr. Veselinovic? The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vuckovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo and joint MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38014	Minister Vujovic, here is the amendment that shows...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38015	Minister Zeljko Sertic is present in the large National Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38016	Mr. Sertić, your name is really hard to remember. Serbian citizens will unfortunately remember it. Mr Sertic here is why the World Economic Forum considers you to be one of the world's ten most inefficient governments, and which is why you are probably one of the most inefficient economy ministers in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38017	I'm gonna need a second warning, and then there's a session exclusion, Mr. Veselinovic, you know what the next measure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38018	In article 45, you said you needed 120 days...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38019	Do you want to be excluded from the session, Mr. Veselinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38020	... to bring in sublaws, 120 days on the motion of the Turnover Movement, or mine to cut that deadline to 30 days, you said you needed to move the documentation. Mr. Sertic, Bundestag has moved within 120 days. However, they are preparing for it. You don't do anything, Mr. Sertice, you pass the law in the Assembly that writes you some couscous there and on the basis of that you should...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38021	Mr. Veselinovic, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38022	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38023	Don't talk about the agenda. I'm begging you, if you don't want me to give another warning, get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38024	What did I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38025	I'm asking you to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38026	So, I said that Bundestag was moved for a shorter period of 120 days, as long as Mr Sertic asked to transfer the documentation from one agency to another. So, he's asking for 120 days to pass sublegal acts, in line with my amendment, says he'll be moving 120 days of paperwork. Mr. Sertice, do you know what you're doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38027	I know very well that you are constantly trying to make a circus out of the National Assembly. I won't let you do it as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38028	So if you think you can do it in a short time [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38029	You've been talking for three minutes, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38030	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, at 14 o'clock, continuing with, I would say, unnecessary amendments. I believe that it affected the fatigue of the amendment's proponent, so he began to mustache and ministers, Mr Sertic called Vujovic, and it was probably the result of the turnaround. However, when it comes to the amendment, we see that Article 45 proposes replacement number 120 with number 30. Of course, I propose not to accept such a thing for all those reasons that the government has also provided in an explanation, and I will read a part of the explanation where it is said that the amendment is not accepted because it takes 120 days, not only because of sublegal acts, but also because of the takeover of projects of archival construction and equipment from the National Agency for Regional Development and the Agency for Foreign Investments and Promotion of Exports to Serbia's Development Agency. Obviously, the proposer of this amendment is not well understood in this procedure and that is his right, it is not disputed. But then I have to ask the question, how could he run important state institutions, organizations, businesses, and be on boards of public, municipal enterprises in Novi Sad? It's just illogical. On the other hand, ask him why exactly 30? Why does he suggest a reduction from 120 to 30? He probably wouldn't know if he told you. Why didn't he write 60, or 45, or 90, but just so lightly, ominously, just to write the amendment? For all these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38031	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Members of the 47th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38032	I first checked in with the Rules of Procedure, and now we've agreed to speak first, Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38033	You won't mind me protecting you from punishment, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Becic and the Honorable Minister Sertic, of course, left one guest, a respected guest from the Ministry, distinguished guests, we have submitted the amendment to Article 47. It's a bill of law. I, of course, participated in the debate throughout the day, and I heard from Minister Sertic that a year has been prepared this law, or a proposal, and this article is defined as it is now. I wonder, then, Minister Sertić, how in a year did you manage to prepare a bill that went through article 47, for example? create stimulating conditions for corruption and not only in this article, but also in other members? So for a year something was done, Minister Sertic called for a year's work, for example. I think Minister Sertic, to make certain solutions, to stimulate corruption. And then now we have to say here-- well, that's it. The second thing, Mr. Sertić, is just across Article 47, which is a little bit and much bigger here, we think that you, with this proposal, are, for example, And in this article, make concessions to investors without clear indicators to measure our profits. Is this, dear gentlemen, supposed to be the result of a year's work on the preparation of a bill, which should then be supported by some anonymous economists, members or not members, who will be able to know at all? Is this the finale of the legislative process related to a bill, respected gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38035	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, you see how it can now move within the framework of the amendment and I don't have to react. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I was at least talking about the amendment. But I'm counting on your heart to be in place because all the members of the government are here. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Drag the reminder to Mr Veselinović, spoke of the amendment... I thank you. Members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I answered. I'm sorry, you're right. Sorry, my bad, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Zivkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38036	A man must fight for his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38037	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38038	The termination of public agencies is a member of 47, in which we clearly see that this newly established agency has actually taken over the jobs of these two that will be shut down. That's what it says in Section 2. You said it doesn't matter that it's brand-new, that it's a whole new space, new vision, new energy, tra, la, la. It's not. Simply, it writes - The Development Agency takes over legal affairs, except for work contracts, objects, equipment, funds, archives. That means there's something going on in these agencies, and it says clearly here. It is said that 120 days is about to begin work for the new agency, then it is said that the budget for the year 2015 set for these two agencies is being transferred to the new agency, if I read well. I have to inform you that by the end of the year there are little less than 70 days left, and it is difficult for the budget for this year to be transferred to the work of these two agencies, except to speed up and make those 120 days 60 days. But then accept the amendments given to you by my fellow MPs. We, with 47 or 58 amendments in total, have tried to convince you that this is a bad law. Of course, we failed at that, which is obvious, but I think our attempt was humane, that it was of the best intentions, primarily because of you and your associates. In the end, I said a little before I didn't mind barking, but I didn't say anyone was barking. Whoever recognized him recognized himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38039	He has submitted to Article 48 of the amendment... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Have you shocked yourself, Mr. Chairman?) Shock yourself, please, and respond. You mean I didn't react? You know how, it's not someone, you know that old saying -- the one that got out, later... Not to say it now, not to quote it. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38040	Of course you won't shut me up, neither me nor the Movement for Pre-Crete. The time will come for the citizens to see that we were right and that in time we pointed to everything you do and the dictatorship you introduced. In Article 48, I suggested on behalf of the PRECRET Movement that the government submit this report within a year, or that Mr Sertic should come if he is a minister. It's hard to remember your last name because you're changing who you are on tape. So, to file a year's report on what you've done. Why are you afraid of that, Mr. Sertice, so you've traveled around the world? You know there are so-called. "evolutional clauses" in the laws the minister comes to, he says - we did it, that and that. The effects are that, that and that. Last time, Mr Vujovic just said his ministry does not have the capacity to produce such a report. The man confessed honestly. He said -- the finance ministry doesn't have the capacity to do an evolutionary report, it's a very serious job. You, Mr. Sertic, don't know what that report means. You do not know what the evolutionary report means to come in a year to say – Yes, the Investment Act, there were so many and so many investments. So much and so much investment has increased, the effects have increased due to the adoption of laws. There have been such and such causative relationships. Local self-government did it, too. The county self-government didn't do it, etc. Of course you won't do it because you're proposing laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38041	Time. Thank you. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Don't warn me before the time is up. It's been two minutes, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: You warned me before. If you don't want me to warn you for five seconds to two minutes, I'll only interrupt you in two minutes. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38042	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 229, I am not advertising, Article 229. The Rules of Procedure say – The Minister informs the National Assembly's competent committee on the work of the ministry once every three months. So, my colleague, otherwise, Dr. Legal Science, should at least be confirmed to read this provision of the Rules of Procedure and read the video, would be required not to report once a year when the ministry already has an obligation to submit the information to the National Assembly's competent committee every three months. I understand him, he's got it all turned around tonight, he's got it all wrong, he's got the ministers confused. It reminds me of that Holy Talale, that reverse saint.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38043	Thank you. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: He will not get a warning, right? ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Did you say something, Mr. Veselinovic? (Janko Vesenovic, from the place: He will not get a reminder as he called me? I don't understand. He pointed out, Mr. Veselinovic, that I broke the Rules of Procedure. He could've just called me, and I don't know why you guys recognize each other, so I don't understand. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Agency for the LICENCE OF VALENTIFICATE GOVERNMENTS You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Sheip Kamberi. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38044	Because of the citizens of Serbia, of course, I am saying this, regardless of what this transmission will go in some early morning hours, apparently, but there will be a voice and a movement for a turn and me personally. So I proposed, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, which has, of course, 47 committees in Serbia, yes, it is wonderful to supplement the Agency's competence to license bankruptcy managers, to add point 5 and to say that it adopts a report on the results and effects and length of the duration of certain bankruptcy proceedings. The bankruptcy process, for example, takes 13 years for the Beko stock company. Several bankruptcy managers have changed, 4.5 thousand small shareholders starved, and over 50 died, although Beka's assets are now over 20m euros, stands unallocated and is being kidnapped by vultures, financial vultures trying to enrich property belonging to small shareholders. I therefore suggested that the agency, in addition to dealing with some peripheral matters, adopt a report on the results and effects and the length of the duration of certain bankruptcy proceedings. He's not the only Beko. So, bankruptcy proceedings go on, bankruptcy managers get paid, everybody's fine, the company disappears, small shareholders... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38045	Time. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 10th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38046	In Article 10, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I asked that a position be added – the Government submits to the National Assembly through the committee responsible an annual report on the effects of the application of this law. I clearly wrote in my explanation that the Turnover Movement advocates that every law has such an evolutionary provision. It's not the same thing as a three-month board report. The three-month report shall report on all activities and the application of all laws, not individually on each law, with concrete law and with the effects of that law. So, they're not Swiss, they're Germans and others, let's just say, crazy because they put that provision into law, because they oblige the minister to file a report. Our ministers don't file any reports. Our ministers have passed a law in the Assembly, which is written by a cocus. We saw today how things were going with the coconut. (Zoran Babic, from the place: "What about Zelena?" ) The Green Parliament Group is not a cocus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38047	Go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38048	Mr. Babic is asking me. So, the cocus is just one and the cocus is the only one that proposes amendments here and laws that pass. No amendment, no law, no other informal group in the assembly has submitted, which means it is an interesting group of people across Serbia's borders. You work for them. We made that very clear today. Some of the honorable men left the coconut today, probably the rest of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38049	You don't understand. Mr. Veselinovicu, amendments cannot stand any associations, no Greens, no coconuts. Only a group of MPs who are gathered around the Economic Cocus. Understand that once. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you have helped me. I don't understand the explanation of the proposal, where the role of some Turnover Movement is repeatedly underlined, or to use some other expressions, because the twist means upside down, upside down in the Serbian Language Dictionary. Not someone who is an association of citizens, who registers the association of citizens -- enough for you women, swastikas and you, three members, to register the association and then call yourself the amendment promoter, which is impossible. I have to say, this goes against the political organization as well. Political parties, unlike the association, are subject to proper control. When it comes to control, then someone who needs control to register a political party, and since the doctor is entitled to know, then subject to the control of the Anti-Corruption Agency, there are a number of provisions that the parties must respect, but citizens' associations do not have and thus can monitor money and avoid controlling political entities. It is unacceptable for me to refer to the Association of Citizens as the Proposer of the Amendment. I'm grateful that you helped us define once that they can neither propose amendments nor laws. It can be done by MPs together, especially, by the government. No associations have the right to propose. I guess one doctor's right is finally clear. I'm grateful to you for explaining that to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38051	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day in the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONTRACTING FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURE You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38052	In Article 1, we have certain changes, in the following text, that I do not read everything, should again stand – agreed financial restructuring. The very concept of this financial restructuring is essentially a set of certain short-, long-term and economic-financial measures to establish liquidity, insolvency and profitability. In the following text, we get nothing if we leave out that part of "agreed", because it can be impressioned, because certain people don't read the whole text, that it's a simple restructuring. It is possible that interpretations of the law can be brought under question, as well as legal decisions to be interpreted differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38053	The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Do you want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38054	Thank you. Article 3 The proposal for this law is a typical example of the wrongly done bill, because the text of Article 3 introduces concepts of indeterminateness and logical confusion, which should be eliminated with this member, in our opinion, as the promoter himself has named, as the meaning of the term. We believe that only strict terms, demarcation and simple, but clear definitions of this bill can contribute to being justified. Such a formulation in Article 3 respectively, paragraph 1 shall also withdraw and delete Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38055	Since the measure was given had its preventive effect and purpose, I withdraw the warning I gave to Mr. Veselinović. Thank you. On the 3rd amendment, submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoje Bradic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38056	In Article 15, which, if adopted, withdraws the deletion of Article 16, we believe that two very important parameters should be added for the assessment of the institutional mediator. I'll read them now. Under point 3, it is not condemned and no court proceedings shall be conducted in the period of appointment by an institutional mediator against it. Under point 4, until the end, the intervention period shall comply with the profession code and the legal norms to define this substance. I think this is very important and that this should be considered more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-22-0.u38057	Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradić and MP Milan Petrovic. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted the 20th amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the MPs. I thank Mr. Sertic. I thank the members of the government who have been and explained the bill at this 14 hour time. I ask the MPs tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. to be in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, where we continue our work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Branko Ružić, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović, Mladen Grujic, Dubravka Filipovski and Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the Fifth Point of the Agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS ON THE COURSES. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Mladen Mladenovic, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Saša Stamatović, Director of the Management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Ljiljana Sovilj, Ružica Tripić, Head of the Department for the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as an incomplete amendment to add a new member of the 36th article with a correction submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojana Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. The rejected amendment cannot be discussed and is not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
