ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. Please, to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., to insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Cortic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38591	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, and it concerns the launch of competitions on co-financing of projects that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of ties between the mother country and the diaspora and the mother state and Serbs in the region. Since the establishment of the Ministry of Diaspora in 2004, each year, the ministry has allocated funds based on the contest for the organisations of our diaspora and Serbs in the region to finance their cultural and educational, educational and other activities. But here we are practically in mid-November, and for this year 2015 there is still no mention of the competition. According to the budget, about 100 million dinars have been allocated for these purposes, and there is still no competition. Given that there is very little time left until the calendar end of this year, there is a danger that these funds will not be used for a basic purpose. I don't need to tell you how important it is for our diaspora organisations to compete on this project, to get the funds they need to organize Serbian-language complementary schools, to organise traditional, cultural events, to publish magazines and books and other activities that contribute to the preservation, identity of languages, traditions and culture of our citizens living outside Serbia. Secondly, my question is addressed to the Serbian government and it says -- when will the president of our joint, intergovernmental Commission for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities between Serbia and Hungary be appointed? We've heard several times lately that relations between Serbia and Hungary are best for the last few decades and that's really true. The prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and his Hungarian counterpart, Viktor Orban, also noted. We have recently heard this from Hungarian Foreign Minister Mr. Peter Sejart, and indeed for the last year and a half two joint sessions of the government of Serbia and Hungary were held. Several documents have been signed concerning cultural, educational co-operation, as well as documents in the field of traffic, environmental protection, and then on co-operation in the area of internal affairs. Energy, traffic, the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, has been discussed, but what remains unscheduled in these relations, and since the minorities of the bridge of convergence that the Hungarian national community, in Hungary, of Serbia, has inherited rights and obligations under an agreement with Hungary on the protection of the rights of the Hungarian national minority living in our country and the protection of the Serb national minority living in the Republic of Hungary. Under the deal, a mixed intergovernmental commission has been formed that has met several times so far. For four years, however, there has been no session of this commission, and at the head of our commission is the head of the province's government, Mr. Bojan Pajtic. So, when a joint session of the Serbian-Hungarian government was held in Budapest on July 1st, it was said that a new president of the commission's work would be appointed within 10 days. It has been several months since, this has not been done and my question has been taken into account the very important work of the commission's competence that helps and overall improvement of relations between the two countries but resolving issues, when will the president of the commission's Serbian work be appointed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38592	The word is Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38593	Thank you, Madam President. My question for the police minister is about the passiveisation of citizens in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac. For some time now in Bujanovac and Presevo, police have been carrying out an action to delete the citizens of these municipalities reportedly not living at the home address or not to report a change of residence. This phenomenon has now taken hold in Medvedja, especially after the nearly local elections. This municipality, according to the available data, is conducting a wider action to delete from the records of all citizens for whom in some hasty police verification procedure it is determined that someone does not allegedly live at the registered address. There are cases of rejection of a request for the issue of an identity card and a person already having a biometric ID card. Domestic legislation sees the residence as a place where rights can be enjoyed. The residence under the law may be registered on the basis of property rights on immovable property, lease or other legal basis. If it cannot be registered in this way, it may be registered at the home address of a parent, spouse, or out - of - wedlock partner, at a permanent residence in a friend’s home, for example, or institution in which the person is permanently housed. A large number of citizens, the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja left their hearths right after the Kumanovo Agreement and the withdrawal of the Yugoslav army from Kosovo and their transfer within the land security zone fivekm from the border with Kosovo. In that period, it is estimated that around 1500 people from Presevo, three thousand from Bujanovac and about three thousand from Medvedje then requested temporary accommodation in Kosovo. A large number of them have been temporarily placed there today. With the plan and programme to resolve the armed conflict in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja of 2001, the then government of the Republic of Serbia and the federal government, one of the commitments undertaken is also creating conditions for the safe and peaceful return of the displaced population. However, nothing has been achieved in this area. There are no minimum conditions for people to return to them because there is virtually no electricity. So, it is a large number of citizens of these municipalities who have already been imposed or threatened with the sanctions to delete from the records, although they are people with citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, they have property in these municipalities and pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia. By refusing to issue IDs or other personal documents or by deleting them from the records, police are making it impossible for these citizens to exercise their basic rights. In addition to preventing citizens from accessing the rights that, by law, citizenship, usually belong to, the difficulties facing those categories of the population when they apply for residence registration can also make it difficult for them to exercise their right to citizenship and to report children in their birth certificates. In order for parents to report the birth of a child, it is necessary to apply their birth certificates and identity cards. If parents cannot report their residence and can therefore not get their ID card, they will be prevented from reporting the birth of this child and thus they lose all rights for their children who are subject to applicable laws and belong to them. The refusal to issue IDs to these persons directly violates Article 2(1). The ID law, which says every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to a ID card. There is a concern that, on the basis of these actions, the removal from the records of existing citizens can directly affect the artificial change in the ethnic structure of these municipalities. In addition to all this, I point out one example that happened in Slovenia. Nationals of Slovenia who were deprived of their civic status during the country's independence were sent to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg 645 lawsuits against Slovenia. In June 2012, the Strasbourg court ruled that Slovenia was in breach of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights relating to respect for private and family life. In the case of Kuric and others against Slovenia, six of the group who sued Slovenia for deleting from the permanent register of citizens in the case of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg admitted the right to immaterial damage, and Slovenia was ordered to make a proposal for compensation for the others deleted within a year, in order to prevent situations for citizens to have to exercise their rights through the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. My question for the interior minister is – what is the exact number of citizens who have been deleted from the records, i.e. who have been refused to issue ID cards in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, and what will the Ministry do to take such actions that directly affect the artificial change of the ethnic structure of these municipalities and stop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38594	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38595	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I refer my first question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. It says -- what is the plan for the economic and economic development of the town of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia? I just want to remind the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, that three and a half years ago in the republican election campaign, as well as a year and a half ago in the re-election of citizens of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia, a promise of a better life and more jobs. After three years of governmental authority of this assembly majority and this government, Nis still has over 36% of the unemployed, which is about 40,000 working people on the bureau. For the past three years, only a 50 to 300% property tax has been increased, communal services have accumulated, electricity has accumulated. The price of remote heating is such that people began to gather spontaneously and protest in the streets of the city of Nis, as a result of enormous accounts that have no place to pay. Nis citizens are also responsible and safe people who settle their obligations, but are in a situation where they have nothing to pay for municipal costs, they have nothing to support their families from because, as anywhere in Serbia, with great, enormous unemployment, I repeat, which exceeds 36%, and in the town of Nis, salaries and pensions are reduced by 10%. The justified dissatisfaction of the citizens of Nis must be resolved. That is why I insist that the Prime Minister says what is the plan for economic development of Nis, South and Southeast Serbia, because only the creation of new jobs, the employment of people, will be able to reconcile their obligations towards the state and local self-government, and will have enough resources for a decent and quality life. I ask a question once again – what is the economic and economic development plan for the city of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia? When will this government begin to fulfill the promises made to the citizens of Nis that by coming to power, they will live better and better? I would like to refer the second question to the Prime Minister and to Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, Minister of Government. We are witnessing, respected colleagues, that Serbia has been making great efforts in modernising railway lines, modernising rail traffic, and that's fine. Serbia deserves to have 21st-century railways, to go faster than the average currently on the lines of the Republic of Serbia, which is slightly below 40km per hour. It's a good track modernisation. What I want to ask you about is – when will the railway line that passes through the city centre and divides the city into two halfs of the city be moved from the town of Nis? I note that in the town of Nis, there are over 30 spring crossings at the level, that besides the great risk for citizens daily who are in danger of being hit by a train. This railroad divides the city into two parts and prevents normal development of the city and normal functioning in the city. What was done during the past government, when the railway shift process began, is that in 2010, a loan was taken from the World Bank of 9m euros. One and a half million euros were spent on a feasibility study. By 2012, the town of Nis, along with this feasibility study, entered a partial expropriation of the future route of the movable railway and made of the planning documents a general urban plan that provides for a new route of shifted rail, and the current route is intended for light rail transport. A plan of detailed regulation of the future route of the movable railway and the complete geodesy of the future route to which the new shifted track should take place. What should have been done by the planning documents is still an idea project, a major project and a general project and the completion of the expropriation of the work of the future route of the shifted track. I ask the Prime Minister and Mrs Mihajlovic – what happened to the World Bank loan? Is the loan completed because only one and a half million euros were withdrawn or the rest of seven and a half million euros failed and was not used? The delay in resolving this problem leads to suspicion that the last moment is waiting for the extortionist to be temporarily, as was announced a few years ago, to electrify the railway through Nis, which Nislji sees as something that is inadmissible and are deeply convinced that if that happens, it will be a permanent solution. So I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38596	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of Somboro and Somborac, where I come from, I have an obligation to ask one question to the Minister of Economy. In the same year, in Sombor, one of the largest and most significant, most famous and most qualitative metal industries, Bane Sekulić, was founded in 1947. However, from 1947 to 2008, until its transformation into a private company, there have been many different robberies in this form, there have been many attempts to devastate the company, especially in the last ten years. Somborces, who have now lost one such powerful industrial giant, primarily former employees of the company, and should not forget that over 2,000 workers worked there, so over 2,000 families had a holdover at Bane Sekulic. We should not forget that this is a company that has been supplying not only the former Yugoslavia with metal shackles and all over Europe, today this range is being imported from Slovenia and China. So, is Somborce interested – will the announced privatisation reviews, large privatisations in Serbia, also review the privatisation of Bane Sekulic? Namely, today it's a company whose AA facilities are empty, which still have the capacity to employ people, but the Sombords are powerless to do anything about it and we'll say again, robbery. What interests me is also – how long has it been with court and police proceedings when it comes to Bane Sekulic? No one was ever serious about the devastation, the destruction and the robbery of that firm. It seems to the citizens of Somboro and the former employees of that company that someone is deliberately delaying time to become obsolete, and that all those prisoners who have destroyed such metal giants have gone unpunished, not to say the reward of what they have taken from that company as personal property. I would like to refer my second question to the Department of Justice and to the judicial perpetrators. We received a proposal for a new law on enforcement. However, as MPs, and recently my distinguished colleague Dragan Jovanovic asked the justice ministry a question and was not fully satisfied with the answer, so I am delegating it again. So, as MPs, we are very often able to listen to complaints from citizens about the work of the judicial perpetrators, about the problems they have due to the introduction of this, to say, a repressive apparatus within the state and, let me say, a frustrating state apparatus. Because court enforcers generally do not respect the laws on bond relations and citizens who are most often small debtors become major victims of serious debt claims, which are very often, notably, in line with the Law on Bond Relations, but the Law on Bond Relations is never applied to the benefit of citizens. We are here representatives of the people who are obliged to bring every law precisely to the benefit of the citizens and to make it something that will enable citizens to live a easier, better and fairer life. So, first of all, the Department of Justice needs to review the Rules on the tariffs of judicial enforcers, not to mention how members and provisions of the Law on Liabilities are applied, which has been used here most in the relations of judicial perpetrators with citizens. I'm interested in whether the Ministry of Justice will, by new law, respect our objections, remarks by MPs, and reduce the pressure on citizens by judicial perpetrators, increase the responsibility of judicial enforcers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38598	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38599	Let me just finish the question. When citizens charge through court enforcers their debts, then they very often exceed the amount of their fees, so that the citizen is mostly to harm. That's what I'm suggesting to the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38600	Thank you. You're out of time. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38601	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I refer and ask Minister Vujovic what is intended for the city of Nis in the 2016 budget programme for the city of Nis with the aim of economic development and the reduction of the number of unemployed? Namely, my fellow MPs, the Serbian citizens should also know that in Nis we have 36,000 unemployed who are at the Bureau and if you follow the trend of employment in Nis, which goes from 500 to 700 employees over one year, and when on the other hand you have 36,000 on the bureau, then I say it takes you more than 40 years, so if you hire a thousand people, a thousand workers a year, it'll take you 36 years to hire all of our Nislims who are on the Bureau. I want to tell you that there are 70,000 employees in Nis and six thousand of them only work in the economy, that everyone else works in republican budgetary institutions, which is an additional big problem and pressure and the functioning of the economy. I also want to tell you that in Serbia, of the 150 municipalities, 46 are highly undeveloped municipalities with a degree of development below 60% of the republican, and of which 27 local self-government belongs in devastated areas and their level of development is below half the average in our country. I want to tell you that all these municipalities are practically located in the south and east of Serbia. I want to tell you that the city of Nis consists of up to five city municipalities, that out of five city municipalities, four of them belong to undeveloped urban municipalities and that the most affected regions are the Pcinski, Nisavski, Toplic and Jablanic regions. Also, I want to tell you that the regional difference in Serbia is one of the biggest in Europe, where Belgrade is one of your most developed regions, while southern and southeast Serbia is the most underdeveloped. I wish Minister Vujovic would pay more attention to the economic development of southern and southeast Serbia, especially Nisa, which should be a driver for the development of Southeast Serbia. Also, I want to ask Minister Vujovic – was anyone from Nis Chamber of Commerce in a business delegation that visited Russia? Is it someone from the Nis Chamber of Commerce, which includes Toplički, Pirotski, Nisavski District, which has the largest number of undeveloped municipalities, were there people from the Chamber of Commerce in some business delegation? Also, the question and notification, practically, the minister and the citizens, that annually more than 150,000 people in search of a better life are leaving their small environments, leaving their local environments and it is mainly from southeastern Serbia, moving towards Belgrade, towards Novi Sad, towards Nis. Is it a strategy for us to have two, three big cities in Serbia, and for Serbia to be empty? I think much more attention should be paid to southeastern Serbia, to every part of Serbia, but here is the most underdeveloped area and here we need the most support. Nis as a city crying out for one planned development strategy, so Nis was changing parties, changing local authorities, but as far as the local interest of Nis was concerned, there was no division. And today, in the Serbian parliament, there are 12 MPs from Nis and unrelated to whether they are from the government or opposition, we send a unique message that the Serbian government must pay attention to the country's economic development in order to improve its quality. What will I slowly complete my presentation, the question of Minister Vujovic – what did he foresee in the 2016 budget programme for the city of Nis, with the aim of economic development, the reduction of the number of unemployed I mentioned, that Nis has 35 000? Once again, if we hire a thousand Nish citizens a year, it'll take 36 years to hire people who are currently at the Bureau, and what about young college graduates? What about the people who come to the desk? This requires a very serious response from Minister Vujovic and the resolution ministry and that when we talk about moving the railway, when ministers tell us – that, it is a local project, no, it is not a local project, it is a state, interstate railway that passes and which divides the city of Nis. We need the support of the Republic, as we voted here to create a bypass credit from Belgrade, as you voted for "Belgrade on Water", we need the state's support to vote in this parliament for the city of Nis and that the voice of Nis is heard and that the economic development of Nis is put as a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38602	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to congratulate the president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, on the great diplomatic and political victory that took place yesterday at the UNESCO General Conference, when Albania's request that the southern Serbian province be accepted as a full member of this specialised UN Education and Culture Agency. Victory is a larger team if it is known that in Kosovo and Metohija, the UNESCO World Heritage List is already on the list of High Decani, Gracanica, Pećka Patriarchija and the Church of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška. The success of the team is greater if it is known that many countries in the world have been exposed to unprecedented diplomatic and political pressures to vote for Kosovo and Metohija's full membership of UNESCO and it turns out that political wisdom, that diplomatic skills can be more important and significant than mere force and political power, including money power, because Albanians and those from Albania and those from Kosovo and Metohija paid the money representatives of individual states to vote for Kosovo and Metohija's full membership of UNESCO. And despite all this, it turns out that those who lobbyed for Kosovo and Metohija's full membership in UNESCO were missing, some would say, alone, and we say, a large and huge three votes and ultimately Kosovo and Metohija were not admitted to UNESCO membership. Ninety-two states were voting for, 50 were against, 29 were abstentions. You heard yesterday in a statement by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic that it is not a great victory of the Republic of Serbia, but that it is certainly a avoidance of one great historical and cultural defeat, and in those words there is a great truth. In order to avoid this major historical, cultural defeat, the Serbian government, led by Alexander Vukic, has made overhuman diplomatic and political efforts to convince the UNESCO member states not to vote to join the southern Serbian province in this UN agency and the Government of Aleksandr Vukic. We can freely say that Serbia has stopped losing on the international agenda, that Serbia has raised its head, that Serbia has finally stepped on its feet and that Serbia has shown the whole world that it can protect its national, historical and spiritual and cultural interests, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, the head of the corrupt regime in Vojvodina, President Bojan Pajtic, just a few days ago, on November 5th 2015, after a session of his shadow government, said a shameful sentence that Aleksandar Vukic deliberately made a farce out of his false diplomatic efforts, as he said a great political genius, because it is clear that Kosovo cannot be accepted because he does not have a two-thirds majority of the votes needed. It was said on November 5th 2015, and yesterday, November 9th, it proved not quite clear that Kosovo does not have a two-thirds majority, as there were three votes short of the southern Serbian province becoming a member of UNESCO. While Bojan Pajtic deceived Serbian citizens, he lied, as he does otherwise, as it is clear that Kosovo and Metohija do not have a two-thirds majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38604	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38605	... The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that diplomatic efforts can achieve success...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38606	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38607	Let me finish. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what further measures will it take to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Serbia, because yesterday's vote in UNESCO showed that Kosovo and Metohija for the world are not an independent state, but a UN-protected territory?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38608	We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Konstantin Arsenović and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic proposed putting the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Parliament group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I call on you to vote, because we usually vote on all proposals concerning amendments to the decisions on the election of members of individual parliamentary groups. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – voted 29 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'll put it on the agenda at the first next session. That's all I can do. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Republic of Serbia's 2015 budget bill, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 November 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 113 against – 13, the abstentioned – no, 25 of the 151 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We'll go back to the delegation point, so I don't damage the parliamentary group, because we have two interpretations. One interpretation that we need 126 votes and an interpretation of all the vice presidents that we need a simple majority. We'll be back, I don't want to hurt anyone, once again for this vote. So, this has passed – the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Rehabilitation Law bill. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please plead. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rehabilitation Act of Borislav Stefanovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: President, what is the vote? I'm closing the vote. For voting... You want us to extend the vote? Twelve against, there are no abstentions, none against, 142 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Does the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38609	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have proposed an amendment to the law, which reads – the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of Public Interest and Special Procedures of Expropriation and the issue of a building permit, for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water", in the popular "Law on Belgrade on Water". There are two reasons why I proposed to the Assembly to re-examine this law, which was passed several months ago. One reason is that, in the view of the legal service, this law is anti-constitutional and incurs an unimpaired right of private property, which can be alienated exclusively under the Expropriation Act which is very clear and which says that private property can be alienated if there is a general public interest. If a school is built, if a social housing building is built, if a car is built, if it's something about municipal field equipment, then expropriation can be done, along with everything written in the Expropriation Act. With this law, respected citizens, the assembly majority gave the possibility for the Republic government and the City of Belgrade to exempt private property in part of a Belgrade municipality along the Sava River, to declare it a general public interest so that they could carry out that expropriation, to do so through the means of a republican budget, and then beyond the Expropriation Act, beyond the conditions when expropriation can be given to another private minister on the basis of an interstate contract, without a tender for the country to build residential and commercial content and declare it a general public interest. I don't see what's in that general public interest. It's a private property where people could directly contact the investor to agree on building what was meant to be done. The second part of which I object to this law is how to finance the municipal equipment of the Sava plateau, it's from the republican budget. Hundreds of millions of euros are at stake, respected colleagues and colleagues. We could use that money to start production, because we all swear and talk about big unemployment in Serbia. That money could be used to increase the number of parcels, i.e. The number of hectares under irrigation, we could use that money to start the energy efficiency process where we would really start the economy, the construction economy of Serbia and that accompanying economy that creates these insulation materials. This is how I think this is against the interests of Serbian citizens and I urge you to accept my proposal now so that we can correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38610	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 out of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. To return to the proposal of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, a draft decision on amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was made following an urgent procedure. We won't vote again, because insight into the stenogram found that this proposal had a sufficient number of votes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and this point is determined as the last item in the Agenda of the current session. Thank you. Thank you and Gordani Komic for your help. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38611	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I propose to the Assembly that we accept this proposal and reconsider the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Namely, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance has been applied since 1 August 2014, the said law reduces health insurance rates at the expense of increasing the rate of contribution for compulsory PIO, with an explanation if you remember then Minister Krstic that there are other sources of funds in the health care sector and from which it can be financed. Since this claim has not proved to be correct, and I will show you now, reading data from the Republic budget, I suggest we re-enter this law to reduce 2% from the pension position that is now 26% on profits, to be as it used to be 24% and the health position, i.e. The health insurance position would increase by 2%, so instead of 10.3%, it would be 12.3%. Here's the thing. If you remember, in the 2013 and 2014 budget, RFZO had a position of 236 billion dinars. By reducing the contribution to health insurance from 2%, from 12.3% to 10.3% as I said, the budget of the Republic Fund was projected in 2015 to 215.7 billion, which is 20.3% less than was projected in 2013 and 2014. I would like to remind you that in addition to the smaller projected republican budget, the rights and obligations towards the insurance companies of the Republic of Serbia remain the same. At the time, Minister Krstic justified this with great savings and the possibility and potential of a republican budget that he could replace any lack of money in the RFZO budget. By reducing the rate of contribution to 10.3% of the income on employee earnings that were before the reduction of 156.9 billion dinars were also reduced in 2015 to 125.3 billion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 40 billion is less income because we have reduced by 2% of the grant from the salary to the RFZO. The funds that RFZO is supposed to receive from the republican budget for financing insurance by Article 22, you know that, the unemployed, vulnerabilities, etc., so that I don't read everything now, has always been projected at 12 billion. This year, we are talking about 1,300,000 insurance companies in Serbia and their contributions are paid on the basis of members 22 of the republic's budget of 12 billion, now 530 million. Four euros per insurance. Because of all this out of great danger of destroying the health system due to lack of money, I ask you to accept this and return the position of contributions as it once was so that Serbian health care could function normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38612	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that -10, against -no one with abstentions - did not vote 146 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38613	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38614	Media service.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38615	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed that we review the two laws again, which is the proposal for a law on information and media and a proposal for a law on public media services. I remind you that the right to be informed as one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution means that everyone has the right to be informed, truthfully, completely and in good time, of matters of public importance. Public interest in the field of public information cannot be achieved solely by forming public services at national and regional level, as such asymmetrical public interest is prevented from forming public services at regional level. I remind the citizens of Serbia that more than a year ago, by voting these two laws, this Assembly abolished the possibility and the right of local self-government to finance from their regional funds, i.e. local public services. There are only two public services left, which is RTS and TV with their two TV and three radio programs. With these same laws, we are obliged, citizens of Serbia, to finance from the budget from 1 January 2016 through public service fees of 500 dinars, to finance the public service of RTS and RTS by 1 January 2016. The way to finance in Vojvodina is this: 70% of the 500 dinar fee will remain for RTD financing, it is 350 dinars, and 150 dinars or 30% will be charged to the jury account of RTS as a republican public service. Citizens under Sava and Danube by voting this law have lost the opportunity to have funding from the budget of local public services so that they are directed only to RTS. They will have the obligation of all citizens to pay 500 dinars, but unlike Serbian citizens living in Belgrade and Vojvodina, they will not have the same opportunity and representation on RTS and RTS programmes. A simple example, what happens in Serbia you can see every day through the chronicle of the region, there you are here thank God enough under Sava and Danube, you tell me how much information is available during the day from your place on RTS? From Nis it goes no more than 15 seconds. If a Nis who has almost 300 thousand people has 15 seconds a day, how many Bujanovac will have, how many Preshevo will have, how many Nova Pazar, how many Raška? They're only talked about when it comes to black chronicles. Dear colleagues, I suggest you, and I urge you, that we re-evaluate this and allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38616	Thank you. You're way out of line. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. The people of MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law on freedom of fear. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. Members of Parliament Ivan Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 144, of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to supplement the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 146, of the total of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. National MP Zoran Babic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point – a proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – six abstentions – there are no, no 29 votes, of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this bill. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38617	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll pick up where I left off. So, I suggest that we re-examine these two laws and adopt a proposal that even under Sava and Danube there is a regional public service of radio television "in Serbia", such a proposal is called, with its two television and three radio programmes. By doing so, we will equalise all citizens of Serbia in rights and obligations. This will allow people who do not live in Vojvodina and people who do not live in Belgrade to be informed about what is important to them, and that is what is happening in their local community. It's nice to know what's going on in Belgrade. It's nice to know what issues are plagued by the municipal structure in Belgrade, but I'm interested in what's going on in Nis, and you and your fellow citizens are probably interested in what's going on in your places. For example, you tell me the last time you heard what the repertoire of the Low Operas is, have you ever heard what's on the repertoire? You didn't hear. Did I hear anything going on in Vranj? I don't have a chance to hear and see. That is why I ask you to accept this proposal and to give citizens who will pay the subscription in order, i.e. the public service fee gives you the opportunity to use this public service as convenient and most appropriate. What is very important, national minorities who have the constitutional right to advertise, this right can also benefit from the law in Vojvodina because we have RTV and they can have their own shows within the programming scheme. Under Sava and Danube, there is no possibility and then you have something that is completely illogical, that national minorities have the right to form their own public messages, and Serbian citizens living under Sava and Danube do not have the right to have public service, but have to be referred to RTS and go back to that old system of centralization information. I guess we've gone beyond that because we're going into the 21st century and I think you'd honestly like to form these regional centres so that information is available and that people can be informed of everything that's important to life in their midst. My colleagues, I really ask you to accept this proposal so that the citizens of Serbia can equalize themselves in their rights, not just in their obligations. Otherwise... What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38618	It's not for you. Ambassador Imamovic asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38619	When I'm done, you ring the bell. ... so that citizens can have the same rights and that we can form regional public services and make information available to all citizens of Serbia under the same conditions and the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38620	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 142, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38621	I didn't hear you. Excuse me. What law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38622	What didn't you hear exactly? One of your laws – supplementing the Information Act and the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38623	You're giving me a third time to talk. It's supposed to be the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38624	You've put up with it three times. Then nothing. I'm putting it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38625	No, no. It's not three times.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38626	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this bill. You've been through the same thing three times, and I have to read it. What do I do? National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38627	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the tenth time that a respected assembly majority, SNS, SPS and all parties who make up the coalition, so that I don't count it all, I suggest that we consider the Health Insurance Act, in order to change Article 41, which speaks of who has the right to pay the weight of the Republic's Health Insurance Fund to fix teeth in the Republic of Serbia. Under the current law, it is the right of young people up to 18 years of age, high school students and students up to 26 years of age, over 65 years of age and pregnant women and certain groups of patients with certain diagnosiss, so as not to list them all now. What I am proposing by changing this member is that all citizens of Serbia, and we are talking about four and a half million working citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are paying contributions to health insurance and they are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia's Health Insurance Fund, to be given the right to make part of those funds that they pay out of their profits can be used to repair their teeth. Ten times this assembly refuses, I don't understand why. We're all talking about working for the benefit of Serbian citizens, and all of us doctors are talking about the health of patients being our first priority, and when it comes to the vote of this law, then no one votes. I really don't understand it. With 350 million dinars unscheduled in the RFZO budget at the position of dentistry. In passing this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia replied that there were no funds. In the media, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, we hear that the budget is great, full of money. The paper budget says there's a surplus of funds, and then I get an answer from the government that there's no money. Well, is there money or is there no money? I believe the budget has money and I ask you to allow the citizens of Serbia to have dental health care and those who pay the funds. You're breaking the law to people who give money. It's their money and they have the right to that dentistry. Not to mention the unemployment rate, not to mention how many people have low incomes and don't have enough money to pay a private dentist, no matter how many private dentists take off their prices. Half our nation is scrawny, not to mention what diseases all can start and get complicated by the fact that our teeth aren't right and that our mouth isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38628	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, we, the People's MPs of the New Party, suggest that the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session, which is this session, gentlemen, is also a debate on our proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Today, who knows which way to describe here to the MPs, first of all from the ruling coalition, what is contained in the bill we propose to discuss today at a session of the National Assembly. We suggest adding a new point 1a, which is, respected gentlemen, academic honesty, to the Law on Higher Education in Article 4. We also suggest that after Article 5. The Law on Higher Education adds Article 5a, in which it is to be written that academic integrity is based on independent workmaking and strict respect for other people's copyrights, respected gentlemen. I note here that plagiarism is the most severe violation of the principle of academic honesty, gentlemen, and I believe that it is our duty, Members of the people, to work here in our central political institution, that in an appropriate way, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, we react to the flood of plagiarists, which we have been particularly faced with since May of last 2014. We who act on behalf of the institution here, on behalf of the National Assembly, should be the first to point out the importance of the principle of academic integrity and to classify this principle as one of the basic principles of higher education, and these principles are recorded in Article 4. The law on higher education. Dear President Gojkovic, I believe that no MP here, nor Mr Babic, nor Martinović, nor Orlic, will have the right nor any kind of legitimacy to call for academic honesty, respected Mrs Gojkovic, here during our discussions on other draft laws unless we vote today to include our proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Who today does not vote for academic honesty loses the right to appeal to this great principle in our further debates, respected gentlemen and respected Mrs Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38630	Thank you. Don't threaten, please. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 137 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 2015 and 1922, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2015. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which were submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2015. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38631	I do not know which way we propose this law, which should in one new, modern way regulates the area of life in Serbia, which has been under great problems for a very long time. A good law that defined this area was in effect in 2003, was adopted in the Serbian Parliament in 2003, but was not implemented because the subsequent power or authority that came after the elections was the first to break the law and that violation was continued in the further period. To this day, we do not have a good legal solution for this area, and that is what the minister responsible for the area of construction said in this assembly. She promised a lot then, new laws, a new law on legalisation of illegally raised objects by the summer of this year. Let me solemnly inform you that the summer of this year passed a few months ago, that we are on the verge of winter, and that there is no law, but we don't have a good law on planning and building. What's the consequence? As a result, the small investment building we have in Serbia has been reduced because of this law and false data on Serbia's progress in the World Bank's debt business list. Even in that area they couldn't be faked, since we're still at 150 and some place in time and procedures for issuing building permits, which is a disaster. This means that in all civilized countries in the world, construction permits are obtained both faster and more efficiently and without any problems. Of course, there was no promise of a quick answer office in this area, of a place to collect all possible permits to start construction, etc. etc. The result of the bad law, which we want to replace with the good law that we propose, is also the largest wild construction site in the history of humanity, which is called the popular "Belgrade on Water", which is started, if it is started, without any permission that is appropriate to the 21st century civilization. These are all reasons to adopt this bill of ours. In 20 seconds, let me warn you, President, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 126...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38632	You'll do it later, you can't do it in this speech. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Can I do it later? But after the vote, he can't go to the polls. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening and publication of the transcripts of the talks between Lydia Udovici and "Continental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the president of the province's government and the Democratic Party, given the fact that the alleged attempt on corruption by JP "EMS" Director Nikola Petrovic was made. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the conversion of credit to Swiss francs into euro. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38633	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try for the fourth time to gain attention and today's MPs support this law that would draw out those in charge of the Swiss francs and their families. Today I will try, since it seems to me that you don't know these people and that you haven't heard their fates, to read you some of those fates. "Dear, my name is S.R. I am one of those who in 2007, raised a loan, 64,000 Swiss francs, or 40,000 euros. That's when my war was 18,000 dinars. In the meantime, I lost a husband who was a solid debtor, because he committed suicide in the previous years that conditioned this loan. I was alone in my torment, caring for three children, two, four and nine years old, who had lost their father because they only wanted to have a roof over their heads. The banks called in cold, threatened to take away the house. My husband couldn't make it, he didn't see the way out and he killed himself. My war was 18,000 dinars back then, and now it's 41,000 dinars. My salary is 29,800 dinars. “ So, a single mother with three children. Another sad story: “My late husband took up a residential loan in one bank, I won’t name it, up to 78,000 Swiss francs. For eight years, we've been paying off orderly despite the constant growth of the war, until January of this year when the war crossed our pay. On February 8, 2015, the war amounted to 62,127 dinars, and its salary was 49,000 dinars. After that, his salary was even cut by 20%, where we got into trouble putting an end to it. There was a threat of firing and it was very difficult for my husband and he tragically ended up in July this year... “
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38634	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I see colleagues from SNS shouting – time. Don't yell. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38635	I will end up presenting the tragic fates of people who are in the grips of banking monopolys and whom this country does not want to help, although all the countries in Europe, all the countries in the environment, are the only ones left behind. The "Effectiva" association has analysed the situation of these people and presented the government of the Republic of Serbia and the data. Unfortunately, the Serbian government stands without such data. "The Turnover Movement" will fight for these people. Fighting for people who can't feed their families. What happened to the family whose husband was tragically hurt? She says: “I stayed with two children of 10 and 12 years of age. I'm employed as a coffee cook with a salary of 26,000 dinars. I don't know if anyone else needs me to explain the situation I'm in. I didn't ask for anything special except to have a roof over my head. We are not asking for any mercy, but for banks and states to admit that in these eight years we have paid something back and that we can continue to live normal, in pain for our father, the fosterer of the family. “ The salary of this woman who has lost her husband, and children without parents, is 27,491 dinars, and the war is 59,685 dinars. It's practically three times the pay war. Here is another testimony from people who are in serious trouble because the Serbian government does not know, does not want to hear their fates: "I am a single mother (MU). I live with my nine-year-old son. I've been cut off in the last few days, and my phone's been cut off before. I'm waiting for the executioner to write down my furniture to settle the utility services. My kid can't explain at school why he doesn't want to eat or why Mom cries every night. My salary is 37,000 dinars, and the war is 51,971 dinars." Next, it's also about a single mother. And here's the data I have left. (SI) - From Zrenjanin, the salary is 23,000 dinars, his war is 38,000 dinars. At the moment of his debt, he was credited 52,000 euros, now 59,000 euros, though eight years back. Next, (TA) from Novi Sad...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38636	Time. Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggests that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – a draft law on additions to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38637	This third law I am today deeply disappointed by the fact that even all fellow opposition MPs have not voted for this law, which deeply, deeply, earthquakes Serbian citizens, 100,000 people living from day to day, not knowing whether they will be able to buy food for their children tomorrow, refers to the addition of the Criminal Code, and it is practically a law for fair elections. With this law, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, I have proposed to ensure that the conditions for the next elections are fair, that votes are not bought at the market, by buying with the dry-meat products that are being distributed to the citizens of the Old Town these days. Imagine how in other towns in Serbia, when in the most urban municipality, Serbia's most urban city, packages of dry meat products are shared to vote for one of the political options? By this law, I have proposed that force or threat be sanctioned, coercion, supply of evidence that someone voted. I have proposed, on behalf of the Turnover Movement, that local self-government be sanctioned and that in the area of local self-government where elections or the conduct of a referendum threatens, violent behavior affects free running and free declaration in the elections. I also proposed sanctioning anyone in the area of local self-government in which elections or referendums are organised organises the intimidation of citizens who have the right to vote, violent behaviour, which affects free running and free expression of will in the elections. I can also say freely that the Turnover Movement will not support or acknowledge any elections in which votes will be bought at the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38638	Okay, that's fine. I'm just asking you to talk about supplementing the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38639	So, this law proposes sanctioning the purchase of votes, not only those who buy votes, but also those who organise vote buying. These are the most common local leaders of political parties, however, often in co-ordination and agreement with their political party leaders. Here, in this Penal Code, amending the Criminal Code, a criminal sanction is also proposed for political party leaders who organise vote buying. It's the only way Serbia can get in line with democratic countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38640	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 150, out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38641	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the MPs on the 19th time to put them into crimes that don't go out of date and the crime of stealing babies. In 2013, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that our fellow citizen violated the right to privacy and obliged the Republic of Serbia to pass a law by September 2014. I did this law in November 2015. It is known that I think that the shame of every MP who doesn't vote for this law is so much that I think that each of them deserves to be read in public in the Assembly, especially because we didn't get any...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38642	I won't let you do that. You've read the names of the MPs several times. We're breaking the Constitution. Every MP has the right to vote for, against or refrain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38643	And I have the right to ask them why they don't want to vote on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38644	You don't have the right to read people's names here, like you're giving them judgment. I won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38645	Can you tell me where it says it? On what grounds won't you let me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38646	I won't allow it. Put on a vote to violate the Rules of Procedure. I'd be happy to admit I broke if I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38647	On what grounds won't you let me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38648	Based on the Constitution of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38649	Mrs. Gojkovic, if we can... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38650	Based on the Constitution of Serbia. So I'm not letting you read names like you're calling us for a shooting. I won't allow it. I'm sorry, but I won't allow it. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place where it says it in the Constitution.) ) I appreciate that you can invite MPs to vote for, against or abstention, but by calling us for the shooting, you have no right to do so. Read the Constitution, but please colleagues from the DS parliamentary group to refrain from such violent behavior, shouting, threats and so forth. I'm asking the cameras to show how certain colleagues behave in the DS parliamentary group. I'd rather vote for the Law of Liberation than fear of you than threaten us. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 145 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can vote after the vote, not during the vote. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: It concerns the vote. It would never end then. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city, said, "And otherwise you gave." ) I have never allowed a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the course of the vote, I once consulted with your vice president and my vice president, and she said it was not done, because it would never end and we would enter the obstruction of the agenda. National MP Branko Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – the draft law amending the Law on Public Information. The word is Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38651	Thank you, Madam President. For the fourth time, I propose that amendments to the Public Information Act and the media be included on the agenda. Namely, the Law on Public Information and the media has been in force since August 2014 and its adoption under a set of media laws has been announced as a major reform shift, as practice has shown quite the opposite. The Anti-Corruption Council published a report in February 2015 on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia. The Council has looked back on its report and on a solution to this law whose amendment we propose. In the Council's view, there are also shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and they exercise effective control over editorial policy as well as sources of funding for multiple media at the same time. I believe that an existing solution that does not provide for the registration of all direct and indirect media owners but only those whose share is above 5%, opens up a space for abuses, does not guarantee to a sufficient extent the transparency of the ownership structure and creates conditions for non-transparently affecting flows in society directly or indirectly through the media. Amendments in Article 39 are proposed by providing that all owners, direct and indirect, are recorded in the media register, regardless of the size of the share of the issuer's founding capital, as opposed to the solution provided for so far, only data on owners whose share exceeds 5%. I think the proposed amendments to the law will ensure transparency of the issuer's ownership structure, i.e. the media, which will contribute to restoring citizens' trust in the media, while reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media or through the media. Of course, the constitutional basis for our proposal for this is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 97, which says among other things that the state of Serbia regulates, provides for the achievement and protection of freedom and the rights of citizens, which is certainly the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons. Of course, we have also received an answer from the government and in that opinion it is said, of course the Government rejects this proposal. They consider that the very registration of the media register gives citizens the opportunity to obtain a realistic idea of the possible impact on editorial policy or on individual published information by the founders, publishers or others who finance media publishers on the basis of the published data. I disagree with the government's opinion, because practice has shown that there are shareholders...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38652	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the DS to provide me with the authority of who is authorized today to represent a parliamentary group, as MP Borislav Stefanovic informed me that he has handed over the second list of speakers, from an unauthorized deputy, to the opening of the first point. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38653	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, who knows which time I want to give you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. As you have seen, this law contains essentially only one change, one member, but with far-reaching and long-term positive effects for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. I know that certain financial experts or those who are so represented, and this government, too, must feel that the general taxes cannot be low, because this would lead to the growth of the fiscal deficit and public debt. The then finance minister, if I remember correctly, at the time, is not sure whether Krstic or Dinkic was, estimated that the increase in the tax rate will lead to a rise in income from this tax, but data show that this growth is not proportionate to the increase in the tax rate. Essentially, this 15% profit tax has a negative effect, because with the rate of corporate income tax 10% we have had investments much greater than in Serbia today. Of course, the profit tax was only one factor for attracting investors, as businessmen have a million problems, from the availability of a source of funding due to high interest rates and taxis, to indexing loans in foreign currency. Many transit countries had relatively low profit tax rates, the company, and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument in the function of developing the economy, increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through an increase in exports. With this tax discharge, we will begin to create for investors and all those who now operate an attractive tax system in the service of the economy and gradually GDP growth. Just reducing the profit tax rate from 15% to 10% will not solve all the structural problems of our economy, but it can certainly be an important fiscal instrument for the recovery and growth of our economy. That is why I invite you, dear colleagues, to vote to put this bill on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38654	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38655	Thank you. Our proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives on March 13th of this year, on Friday, in two days it will be eight months, submitted on time and with a desire to establish how the rule of law of institutions and government in the National Assembly, and so that the system of responsibility is established for anyone who deals with public affairs. Reports submitted by the military commission have left no answer to two important questions when this tragedy and the death of seven people. The first important question is, where did the Minister of Defense come from on the basis of which and whose information, how did he get the information that it was necessary to order a rescue mission? A very important response that is missing, persistently after eight months. A second missing answer – who changed the flight plan when it was already headed for Belgrade, after carrying out the first part of the rescue mission? Recently in his statement, the minister said he was proud of the helicopter mission and would order it again, past the subordination, which is an unmistakable statement, that someone should be proud of the death of seven people and that they think it could always happen again. This is served by the polling committee, to prevent everyone from thinking that because they are fleeing the investigation, they are fleeing dialogue in the Assembly, which is fleeing the government of the institutions, from making such statements. I regret to say that the National Assembly does not want to put itself on the agenda with even greater regret that we all have common damage. How and whether all those who were in the chain of oral subordination can live with their decisions, it's not an institution, it's a matter of personal ethics, humanity, humanity. But the defence minister is here to answer to the National Assembly, to listen to the National Assembly, and not in any arrogant way isolates himself because he has the protection of the Prime Minister from people in subordination who have neither the protection of the rule of law, so two generals are punished without the protection of the rule of law and we have the answers about who is responsible for the death of seven people. I hope today is the day we put this on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38656	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38657	Thank you. Our proposal for a law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunitions is to introduce an obligation for all owners, users, weapons holders to undergo psychophysical checks to adopt a proposal for a license to own or use firearms. These changes to the Law on Arms and Ammunition do not apply to Serbian hunters, since Serbian hunters are people who are safe-used of weapons and are rarely, if ever, using guns, guns and other small-caliber weapons and also do not refer to those who, under official duty, carry and have the right to use weapons, regardless of whether they work in the service of internal affairs, in the military, in the police, in organisations engaged in private security or within the state, because they usually pass a psychophysical review. There are a huge number of people in Serbia who have guns, guns don't serve to hunt, a gun serves to kill a man, who doesn't go through any control of the mental state, and we just testify to tragic news of murders in families, because the person who's unbalanced, who's paranoid, who's seriously sick and needs help, has decided to use that gun. Our concern for all is to protect the one who believes he has the right to kill because of the unconsciousness of reality and to protect those who may be their victims. No additional condition goes to any other social group that handles and uses weapons, but in our society, in a post-conflict, post-traumatic society, in a society with a very large number of illegal weapons, it is necessary to introduce this attitude into Criminal Law. He doesn't kill guns. They kill people, and society is there to bring regulations that, first of all, would act and prevent people who are paranoid, unbalanced, nervously unstable, who don't pass checks from being in possession of weapons. The observation that you can obtain weapons is another topic of the Criminal Code, of course you can. The observation that not only guns are killed is also true, but at least let's bring all those who have guns under the obligation of regular medical examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38658	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for–11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I proposed that a joint principled single search be carried out on the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the Prevention of Taxes on Income and Property and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Evasion in relation to Income Taxes. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – two, abstentions – no, 32 of the total attendance of 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 26 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the Assembly established the agenda of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax ejaculation in relation to income and property taxes; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 4. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens. I ask the Service to prepare for us the consolidated text of the agenda in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38659	I'd like to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure that you're making permanent. Article 126 says – voting using the electronic system is done by pressing certain tasters with previous and identification of MPs. Article 2 – The time to vote using the electronic system is 15 seconds. The vote on the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of Serbia lasted 141 seconds. No vote today lasted 15 seconds, and the Rules of Procedure say it lasts 15 seconds. There was a seven-second vote just now. Sometimes it takes three, sometimes 42. I repeat, when we voted on the draft law supplementing the Serbian Budget Law, the voting time was 141 seconds. You can check that because there's a record. Therefore, any vote held today was contrary to Article 126. The Rules of Procedure we're working on here, and I demand that there be a re-election for all the points that were voted on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38660	You're right, MP. One of the dots took too long, but I have one completely personal reason, I won't tell you, because it wouldn't taste good, if you ask what kind of one, I got a notice that I had a death in my family. I guess you didn't want to hear that, and I apologize for taking so long. Maybe I should have retired from the session, but I think it's better for me to stay. All right, we'll vote there were injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38661	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I'm sorry about your situation, but I have a need to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry you didn't give me your word when I asked for it earlier, but I want to point out now that we've injured members 172 and 176. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They are related to the way the budget is adopted in parliament. Article 172 says -- a budget search at the National Assembly session can begin at the earliest 15 days of the budget day in the National Assembly. The draft budget, which is discussed by Article 176, says - changes and additions of the Republic of Serbia's budget during the year are carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which set out the procedure for the adoption of the budget. We got a budget update on November 5th, so five days ago. The rules of procedure are explicit to change and supplement, article 176 says, are adopted in the way the budget is adopted, and that means at the earliest 15 days since the Assembly gets the budget. We got it five days ago, and that's why I don't think we can discuss budget supplements today, if we respect this Rules of Procedure. Please stop this session, wait another 10 days to coordinate and respect the Rules of Procedure which are still in force. I ask you to make a point or act on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38662	This provision concerns the draft budget law, not the addition of the bill. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Article 176 is complemented. ) So, the government asked for an urgent procedure to be discussed, and I learned at the university that lex specialis derogat legion generals, meaning in a rough translation that suspends provisions relating to regular procedure and most in parliament agreed to it, and we have established the agenda, but we will certainly vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38663	Dear President, I'd like to advertise Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where you are required to behave in the conduct of the session in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Today, when I explained the proposal, the three laws, and when there was a vote on them, MPs who wanted to support those laws had no opportunity to do so, because they had less time than the Rules of Procedure prescribed to vote on those laws. The opposition MPs told me that they would vote to include these laws on the agenda, if you hadn't interrupted the vote. Please, in accordance with this Article 27 and in accordance with Article 126, repeat the vote on the Law amending the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, the Law on the Conversion of Loans in Swiss francs to the euro and the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, or the Law on Fair Elections, because MPs did not have enough time to declare these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-10-0.u38664	Thank you. The only thing I've heard is that you've insulted the MPs, been late for conversation, I haven't really heard. But the agenda is established. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What did I insult? How can I explain this to you? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What did I insult? We can't go backwards. We can just, don't yell, please. (Janko Veselinović, from the scene: What was I insulting? That's terrible. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I heard it, I hear it. Thank you. Thank you, we will certainly vote and colleagues will have the opportunity to express their opinion. Don't yell, please. So I was informed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that negotiations with the IMF are still ongoing, and I am setting a break of an hour, while the finance minister, as authorized in front of the promoter, today's agenda points, is not available to us. So, 13.00 hours ago, no. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. Please specify the number of MPs present in the O.R. to insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
