ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37081	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to check their cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Mladen Grujic, Milorad Mijatovic, Meho Omerović, Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. We continue our work and move on to a principled search on the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS ON THE SOURCES. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Mladen Mladenovic, acting as Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Saša Stamatović, Director of the Office for Forests at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection; Ljiljana Solj and Ružica Tripić, Head of Department at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Before opening a principle search, I remind you of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5.00 hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37082	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 87. The Rules of Procedure in which he says - National Assembly meetings are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. It's 10 o'clock and 22 minutes, so I'm asking the chairman whether we're coming in at 10 and 20 in the future and if you've changed anything in the Rules of Procedure or if you'll respect the Rules of Procedure? This morning, as you saw, the opposition gave you a quorum even though it has you in the ruling 210 coalition. So you couldn't raise 84 MPs for the start of the session. The opposition colleagues gave you the quorum, and that's why you started the session. If it hadn't been for that, we wouldn't have started the session right now. For this reason, I ask you, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, as you say, who have chosen us all, it is true that in the future you respect the Rules of Procedure, to ensure your work, this is not the first time, the work of the Assembly according to the Rules of Procedure, that we begin the session at 10.00 hours, not start the session at 10 hours and 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37083	Dear Professor, I consider you as a professor to be telling the truth to your students, and here as an MP you try to speak differently as well as what you read. So, you yourself read the Rules of Procedure where it is said – by the rule. You, as a MP, have your duties and obligations. Also, we as the National Assembly and as chairman, I am obliged to ensure that the government is present. The government was in progress, a government official came out of the government and came to explain the Law on the National Assembly, and we, as MPs with our rights and obligations, must comply with that. So, Mr. Veselinovic, I'd like you to just tell the truth to the end when you're in contempt or at the moment you're pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Does the proposing representative, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37084	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to be back here with you two weeks later in the National Assembly and to be able to explain to you today an extremely important law from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. It is about the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, the Law of which we expect to significantly improve the current situation in the area of forestry of the Republic of Serbia. If you'll excuse me, I'd like us to all remind ourselves together of what the forest is like as a natural resource and as well as of the general interest, and then, personally, to explain to you the most important proposed changes and additions to this law. Forests as natural resources and good of general interest were always an important factor in the development of the state and were a source of goods, services, and thus the income of the total society. The state of the forest represents a mirror of the cultural and historical development of the state, the relationship of man, society and state towards the forest, is conditioned by the social needs that change over centuries, but also by its natural legality, large and open space, the long duration of the production process and renewableity. It is these characteristics of the forest that indicate the need and possibility of sustainable use, permanent existence and relatively slow improvement. Forests are a source of wood as raw materials, but also a place where biodiversity is preserved, as well as a place for recreation and many other economic, ecological and social benefits that the social community has from forests. Because of this, modern forestry sets a general goal for the social community to be made available to the desired good. The dynamics of social change, hence the requirement of the forest, suggests the complexity of establishing a forest management system and the need for a permanent improvement of the strategic and legislative framework. In order to satisfy different interests and needs in the same space, and without being compromised as a resource, the concept of sustainable forest management has been established. The UN Environment and Development Conference, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, marks a turning point in relation to the environment and the use of natural resources, the launch of a number of global and regional processes from which the concept of sustainable forest management has arisen. The concept implies the management of forests and forest land in a way that sustains and improves their production capacity, biodiversity, restoration and vitality. In this way, in the present and the future, it is ensured that the environmental, economic and social functions of the forest are met without causing damage to the surrounding ecosystems. The forest law is one of the instruments within the system of sustainable forest management, which provides for the implementation of that principle. When it comes to forests in the Republic of Serbia, the total forest area is 2,252,400 hectares, in which high natural forests are represented with 621,200 hectares or 27.6%. The published natural ingredients are present at 1,456,400 hectares or 64.6%, and 174.800 hectares, i.e. 7.8% are artificially raised forests. Other forest land is represented by 382,400 hectares. The total area of forest and forest land is 2,634,800 hectares. Given that Serbia's noise level today is 29.1%, as well as that the optimal level is the same according to Serbia's spatial plan, 41.4%, but also that the forest structure is dominated by publishing, i.e. forests of less quality, it is clear that the situation is not satisfactory. Therefore, systematic, long-term plans and programmes are needed, including relevant legislation, which will take into account, among other things, all the common useful functions of the forest, which are also wood production, as the main products, and the preservation of forest ecosystems, such as wealth, wild flora and fauna and a number of others. In addition to all the above, it should always be borne in mind that the value of the cut wood mass on a log in Serbia is around 60m euros annually. But if other economic benefits are added to this, such as secondary employment, which depends on wood as raw materials, ecological and social functions created annually in Serbian forests, the total monetary value of Serbian forest products and services is about 700m euros per year. This unequivocally suggests that the ecological, economic and economic benefits produced from forests are much greater than what official statistics show as the benefit of Serbian society from forests. The draft amending and supplementing the Law on Forests has created a burning problem in the forests and forestry of the Republic of Serbia. These amendments and additions to the Law on Forests gradually address problems in the area of conservation, protection, use and availability of forest and forest land as natural wealth, the issue of surveillance, as well as other issues of importance for forests and forest land in order to achieve the objectives set by the Strategy for the Development of Forestry of the Republic of Serbia. An important forest law, adopted in 2010, has led to some positive changes in the forestry sector, but during its application, it has been found that during the previous five-year period there are also certain shortcomings that have caused negative effects on Serbia's forests. With amendments and additions to the Forest Law, we remove perceived problems and shortcomings, and also, the proposed solutions we are going to meet in the future to warn potential problems in the future. In addition, several legal regulations and decisions directly reflected in the forestry sector have been adopted in the period from 2010 to now, and the existing law was necessary to comply with these rules. This applies first of all to the Constitutional Court Decision of 13 July 2012 concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the field of forestry, one of which has been returned to the Republic. This refers to the authority that the Republic of Serbia regulates forestry in the AP territory and ensures that public interest is achieved in the area of forestry, respecting all competences that the province continues to have in this area. Also, after the adoption of the Law on Public Enterprises in 2012 there was a commitment made to the founders of public enterprises to coordinate the founding act of public undertakings with that law. In view of the fact that JP "Serbishum", which runs with more than 90% of forests in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, was established by the Law on Forests of 1991 and that these provisions remained in force after the adoption of the 2010 Forests Act, these amendments and additions to the Law on Forests and provisions are put out of force, and the JP "Serbian" is obliged to comply with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. As a particular problem, we have seen the phenomenon of devastation and deforestation of state forests that have no users, or someone who would boss these forests on behalf of the state as owners. In the privatisation process of various social enterprises, cooperatives and the like, forests were excluded because, as well as good of general interest, they could not be the subject of privatisation. On the other hand, the 2011 Law on Public Property prescribed that the legal regime of construction land, agricultural land, forests and forest land in public property is governed by a special law, and no such provision exists in the current Law on Forests, resulting in several tens of thousands of hectares of state forests which are not managed by anyone. Since it's open space, big surfaces, these woods are always hit by poachers. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests establishes a legal basis for the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Forest Affairs, to determine the users of those forests that meet the legal requirements, which will safeguard those forests from illegal use and manage them on the principle of sustainability and improvement of the situation. According to the current Law on Forests, state forests in the Republic of Serbia are the owners of, above all, public forest management companies, whose founder is the state of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province. Extraordinaryly, forest tree safety belts created by the reforestation of state land after 2010 can also be managed by public enterprises, which are the founder of local self-government units. This norm does not respect the fact that a good part of the forest, in the vicinity of cities, and even in cities, is managed by local public utility companies, which is the founder of units of local self-government. As an example, we can cite the JKP "Green" Belgrade, which runs part of the forest in the territory of the city of Belgrade, such as Zvezdarska, Miljakova Forest, and it is similar in other cities of Serbia. With this law, we have respected the reality and prescribed that public enterprises, whose founder of units of local self-government, which have managed state forests until the law was passed, can also manage these forests in the future, provided that they meet the conditions laid down in the Law on Forests and Specific Regulations. In addition to the above reasons relating to the rights of editing, availability and management of forests, there are also narrow professional reasons for amending the Law on Forests, above all, in the area of forest management planning, wood traffic and criminal policy. In the area of forest management planning, a new spatial planing continent is introduced, i.e. The forest area. In total, eight forest areas are established, one in the territory of autonomous provinces and six in central Serbia. Forest areas are established by uniting existing forest areas that represent spatial and natural continents, providing more meaningful and rational planning in forestry. Often weather disasters and climate change, in general, cause major damage to forests, such as floods, floods, floods, rinks, ice-loms, wind-loms, insect gradations, etc., which often occur and decrease from year to year in the field of forestry and do not provide the sustainability of forests in certain territories, therefore require more investment in prevention and recovery of damaged areas. Amendments to the Law on Forests allow for more effective treatment and response in the event of natural disasters, on the one hand the Ministry and on the other hand users and forest owners. In this regard, we have suggested that the release of the obligation of owners and users of forests to pay compensation for the use of forests in the event of the recovery of natural disasters, because in such situations it is not possible to talk about the use of forests. The provisions governing the transport of wood have been significantly improved. The aim of these amendments is to enable traceability, i.e. origin of wood in transport, and to give full jurisdiction to the Republic forest inspectors in the area of wood traffic control, which is limited by their applicable law, which, among other things, led to an increased volume of illegal woodcutting and traffic. Finally, criminal provisions have been extended, so that all actions are sanctioned against the provisions of the law, and there is an additional tightened criminal policy in the handling of competent courts, among other things, in the mandatory statement of the measure of confiscation of cases committed to the enforcement of infringements under this law, and all of this with the aim of introducing a system and control in the use of forest resources. In addition to complying with applicable regulations, the adoption of this law allows for the resolution of some of the current problems in forestry, primarily in the part of the protection of forests against illegal use and destruction, then, the efficiency of the work of the Republic forest inspection, through greater powers in the field of wood traffic control, and a more severe criminal policy. As part of the forest protection system, it is especially important to highlight the establishment of a mechanism for the protection of state forests that do not have users, which I have already spoken of. As an illustration of the significant problem, the illegal cuttings, we cite data from research done in several projects on the consumption of biomass in Serbia, which showed that around six million metres of cubic trees are spent annually in the Republic of Serbia. According to official statistics, however, the amount of wood in transport from state forests is around 1,935,000 metres of cubic meters, and from private forests about 871,000 metres of cubic, a total of 2,806,000 metres of cubic meters. It follows that nearly half of the wood in Serbia is not registered, which does not mean that the amount of wood and potential items of theft, but partly the owners of the forest are avoiding the requirement to mark the cutting trees, so-called. This is because they also avoid the obligation to pay compensation for the use of forest at the level of 5% of the market value of wood varieties at the site of the cutting, which makes it practically impossible to determine the origin of wood and possible illegal acquisition. The theft. By reducing the volume of illegal cuttings, good management will also be provided and more inflows of funds into the Republic's budget, by better payment of forest charges. The creation of responsible and appropriate legal assumptions is undoubtedly a very important element in the system of sustainable forest management, as one of the basic principles of forestry, but must only be understood as one segment of the permanent process of creating and improving the system in order to meet the strategic objectives of the forestry sector. We expect the measures proposed by this law to contribute to the improvement of the state of the forest in the Republic of Serbia, thereby increasing the participation of the forestry sector in the gross social product of the Republic of Serbia, thus increasing the participation of the forestry sector in the overall social and economic development of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37085	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do any of the committee's reporters want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37086	Dear Mr Becic, Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, given that today's topic is one of the most serious resources Serbia has, Unique Serbia certainly considers it appropriate to give its opinion on this law and that perhaps in some future, through some sublegal act, we speed up some things that are not covered by this law. In fact, it is necessary to increase attention to what is being said today and to focus this attention on the fact that the law that we adopt is actually implemented on the ground, for the simple reason that we are witnessing huge abuses of areas that are under the woods, the illegal cutting of trees, and even the black market and the goods that are being exported from there. I would like to point out that the great Germany in its own time, after the Second World War, when it had its biggest economic crisis, made a decision to set off in the wake of its forests and thus, among other methods or elements, managed to accelerate the growth of its economy, which today is one of the world's leading. Sustainable forest management as a modern concept of forest management certainly implies the introduction of a modern law that the minister today explained. Certainly, given that in the Law on Public Property and the Law on Public Enterprises there is something that we must comply with, and the Law on Forests through these amendments and amendments to the law, we have a situation that the forests are exempt from privatisation, we have a situation that dozens of hectares of forests in Serbia do not have to be managed and it is necessary to speed up through these amendments and supplementing the laws. What is evident is that in the future, the ministry will assign who will manage these spaces, and it is necessary to make sure that local self-government gets their share, but also to make sure that economic operators who have the opportunity to restore these resources to manage forest management. Forests are of course an important matter for the functioning of the entire planet, but somehow these things are not seen and can't be touched, so perhaps less attention is being paid to the public, but we certainly have a situation, for example, that in 2013 with the appearance of Google maps that were with the biggest resolution, one and a half billion hectares in the world of forests were destroyed, which with the elemental disasters, which with illegal urinary tract. I want to tell you that Serbia doesn't jump out of it much either. What one of the main reasons was that the state's hands were tied to prevent illegal tree cutting are small or no powers of forest inspection. We had a situation where the traffic police were on their way to stop a truck that was going with trees that were not marked and had no origins, and their only option was to contact the forest service or the forest inspection, which had no jurisdiction over it. Most of the time, they informed some of their more truths, and it ended there. However, this law allows forest inspection to take away trees. It's not bad at all, when the forest has already been cut down and done so much damage that the state still has something to do with the damage by selling these trees and, of course, the huge fines that follow those who committed it. Of course, when we talk about forests in Serbia, the minister made a very good point in her presentation of the amount of deforestation, that the noise is about 30%, that it is generally a satisfactory category at the level of world proportions, but given that the noise in Europe is 46%, should speed up, i.e. to make the incentive to continue in Serbia. However, Vojvodina is one critical part of the state as regards the amount of forest. All 6% of the province's surface is under the woods and there are some solutions to be found. Given the fact that the Constitutional Court has declared an unconstitutional part of the Vojvodina Statute concerning forest management, it is likely that the state will now have some measures of interventionalism that will be able to increase the noise in Vojvodina. Generally, what is important is that "Serbishum" is managed by the state of Serbia through the "Serbishum" about half the total area of the forest, and half is owned by private persons. However, according to the "Serbishum" action plan, Serbia needs to be forested by another 10% and this is a good action plan and it is a good shift from 1979 to the year it was taken as a reference year where it was already forested by more than 5%. But what's problematic is that although the "Serbian" plant about three million trees on an annual basis, we have a situation that even when it meets that action plan, it's going to increase the noise by 2% because it's much more insolent in private, or private property, so 8% of the total forest area has to be raised by private ones. The European Union is very rigorous about this and with its criteria, with very high sanctions, and I must say also incentives, and people who have forests in their possession are encouraged to raise new plantings, and on the other hand, the inspections are very rigorous in the sense that someone took the subsidy without taking advantage of it. That's what we'd have to do with us. What JS has to ask you as a question of the minister, is that if the forests in the territory of the AP are returned under the jurisdiction of the Republic, and will return on the basis of this constitutional regulation, we are interested in whether these forests will be managed by the "Vojvodinasum" or will be managed by "Serbishum" or by some local self-government in Vojvodina. Because then the question arises – why is there a "Vojvodinasum" if it should remain under centralization, that is why they should manage "Serbishum". I'm asking a question, so I didn't want to suggest an answer through this. What I'm saying is, certainly, this law is something that the JS parliamentary group will support, but at first I said that maybe we should pay attention to some sublegal act that we're going to adopt in the future, which is about incentives for raising new forest plantings, for raising new forests. We have a situation to reduce the effect of a glass bell, to increase agriculture, to provide better conditions for life in the high urban environments, and most importantly, the wood industry would probably develop to that end so that we could open up a job for which JS is probably the most famous among political parties. So, once again, I would like to say that in the day of voting, the JS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37087	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37088	Thank you. I'd just like to briefly comment on some of your data that you've provided and answer the asked question. As far as Serbia's noise is concerned, we said that around 30%, more specifically according to the latest inventory, is 29.1%. It is true that the noise level at Europe level is 46% and it is true that we have foreseen an action plan for the next period, namely the latest plan of the Republic of Serbia for the next period of this percentage increase and that Serbia's ideal noise performance would be 41.4%, according to this spatial plan. However, we should also know that Serbia's noise after World War II was about 16.7%. From then on, the noise has been increasing steadily. For these previous years, we almost doubled the noise. Perhaps this is an opportunity to say that according to the inventory of the forest, the total volume of the forest, or the wood mass in the forests at the level of Serbia, is 363 million meters cubic. The annual increase is nine million metres cubic, and I just said in that opening address, the annual cut or use of the wood mass is about six million feet [6 million m] cubic. All in all, all this data is in favour of us gradually increasing with the fact of nature, the noise at the level of the Republic of Serbia. You said and that is true, one of the reasons for the proposed amendments and amendments to the law was that it was necessary to comply with the applicable law with the other regulations adopted during the period of application of the law. One of the important other regulations is the Law on Public Property. The Law on Public Property of the Forests which once consisted of enterprises, cooperatives, etc. They are now state property, because by privatising them cannot be privatised as good of general interest. They are now truly without adequate ageing, without adequate care, without users. As such, subject to forest thieves and all those illicit acts. What you didn't say exactly, and I'm taking the opportunity to say now, is that the users of these forests will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, right, on a proposal from the Ministry. It's an important question that we want to settle with the proposed law. What you asked, that is also one part that was mandatory for us, or necessary, which refers to compliance with another regulation, and I mean a regulation adopted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Then you asked the question - what's changing now in relation to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? I suppose in the next part of today's assembly session there will be similar issues, so now I'm taking the opportunity to simply explain that we were bound by the law, which we did by the proposed law, to bring the AP's jurisdiction into line with the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 July, I think in 2012. What does the Constitutional Court's decision say? She says that Article 18(1) of the Law on the competencies of the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry, therefore, that member is unconstitutional, and we have previously transferred one part of the jobs in the area of forestry from the republican level to the level of AP. So, as the Constitutional Court has declared that member unconstitutional, we, of course, have an obligation to put it into the bill now, and we did it. What does that mean now? That doesn't mean any major changes in the operating system itself. The changes primarily refer to the planning documents and we have built that into this law. So far, an AP programme has been established on the territory of the country independent of the rest of our country, i.e. the central part of the Republic of Serbia, and by this law, there is practically only a single programme for the development of forestry as a unique, means the highest strategic document setting out guidelines for the development of forestry in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in general as a state, with an action plan for its implementation. So, in that part, the Republic of Serbia is returning to the Republic of Serbia this strategic plan document, which we are also providing for the achievement of the general public interest in the management of forests. Furthermore, Article 38 establishes the national inventory of the forest. So far, the AP has been able to finance this part of the commitment, so national inventory, from the AP budget. Now the national inventory of the forest will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia or through some donations, international projects, etc. This may be a chance to say that the last inventory of the forest was 2004/2006. For that part of the work and commitment, we have now provided funding from the Kingdom of Norway's donation of about $600,000, and we have now applied for this new national inventory, which should be organised as early as next year, for funding from the Global Environment Fund. The project is worth about $3.5 million. I must commend my associates and those who have worked to prepare the project, because the project has been given technical consent and we expect it to be adopted and adopted by the Global Fund Management Board, and then we are moving into a large inventory that will now be wider than this one, because in addition to the inventory of the forest mass, we will be working to collect all those data relating to both biodiversity and all other common useful functions of the forest. So carbon production, oxygen production, i.e. all that makes the forest an extremely important environment for the development of society. So, for the ecological, for the economic and social aspects of every society, and of course ours. To return to the jurisdiction that is now being abolished by the AP. So, in addition to this planned important document as a strategic document that we adopt at the level of the Republic, other than the funding of national inventory, the private forest management programme remains in the jurisdiction of the AP, by obtaining consent from the Ministry for the programme. The section related to monitoring the impact of cross-border pollution, which will be organised and financed again from the level of the Republic of Serbia after the adoption of this law, could be organised from the AP level so far. Of course, the last thing that changes is the agreement to change the purpose of the forest and forest land, which is now given by the ministry, i.e. the competent authority in the ministry of territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Practically, it's what changes, but at the AP level, other competences remain. Therefore, there is also a budgetary fund for forests and entrusted jobs of forest inspection and granting consent to the basics of forest management, etc. So, this is just a consensus with a decision that is part of another legal act and legal law, and these are the most important changes that are incorporated into this law, and what is very important, and that I want to point out now in the end, is that when it comes to this harmonisation and these new legal proposals, absolute consent has been reached, first of all, between the profession, and those operatives in the section relating to jobs in forestry. Therefore, agreement has also been reached at the level of the Ministry and the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Forest Institute in Belgrade, the Faculty of Forests, the Institute for the Lower Forestry and the Environment in Novi Sad, so that all these changes are practically agreed among them and a truly high degree of consensus has been achieved. This is what we want to boast today and point out that the law is indeed the result of a serious, persistent work and, as I said, of good consent and consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37089	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37090	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Ministers with Associates, the SPO with DHSS is extremely interested in obtaining a quality forest law, which we are now promoting through its changes and additions. For what? Absolutely aware of the economic, social and ecological importance of the forest, we even through our political action at the republic and local level had some party campaigns to try to save certain forest areas, but also growth, primarily decorated in some Serbian cities. For what? Not only because of the ecological and aesthetic importance that trees have, and above all, I mean the trees planted in the city area, but just aware of the fact that the hammock in the Republic of Serbia is about 29%, which is less than one third, and in Europe, the average noise is about 46%. Then, we are absolutely aware that many, as you state in the light of this law, growth, and especially the four-year period around New Year's and other holidays, suffer. I think that, besides the campaign run by individuals, associations, etc., for the next New Year's Eve, it takes one of the Ministry's time-out campaigns, as artificial trees for New Year's Eve and Christmas holidays are being bought in Europe. They can serve a large number of years, and it's more cost-effective to the citizens than to buy a real tree every year, and the economic damage in cutting down such young trees is huge. I know that four men, like every forest, should be maintained, arranged and a certain number of four men should certainly be found on the market, but the Ministry, as a very significant link, perhaps the main link, in this chain, should, not only this Ministry but all other ministries in its particular functioning, also run certain campaigns, through advertising videos, through billboards, through statements by individuals, associations, etc., so that the awareness of citizens in that part rises to a higher level, and I say, the benefits will ultimately benefit both states and citizens and will be satisfied with the general interest. We, for example 2004 - 2005, when the local self-government in Kragujevac began with such a regular haystack in the city's core, we as a political party ran such a campaign that for the effect it eventually had that the mayor with his associates had to take journalists to a tree that was really sick, which was mature for cutting and it was justified to cut it, but a further cut of the canvas was stopped. A similar campaign was led by citizens at King Alexander's Boulevard, with us here in the neighborhood, when the construction of the Boulevard was done. Quite justifiably, they had their own interests which were completely understandable and the city's reaction was such that the city had to get the canvass of a certain age so as not to plant young plants for which it took years to reach the level of those plateaus that had been destroyed. Then, as far as shaming is concerned, I'm not going to say anything new, it was even though we, of course, are the great anti-communists and opponents of that regime that came into existence in Serbia in 1945, unfortunately, but there have been good examples in the sense of shaming those areas that the planning documents planned for shaming, somehow the last years have stopped. "Serbishum", as a public company that manages the state forests in Serbia, seems to me that there are a lot of trees available of indigenous races that would make rapid progress in their natural habitat, so I think that there is probably a need for help and the Ministry, as a driver of that action to reach the level of noise we need. Even, for example, during the Kingdom of Serbia, we have this on the old Kragujevac-Kraljevo road, we have examples in eastern Serbia, there are still these apple trees. The King with the Minister of Agriculture then agreed that everywhere along public roads, roads, where there is the possibility of planting, primarily apples or other fruits, to refresh the traveler's intention, to have his and his ecological function etc., the campaign was carried out and it was done. I think a similar kind of campaign, let's say, here's my suggestion that this could be done by the Ministry. Who I am is binding, not only economically, but also the historical of our people for forests and how important it is in the minds of our people, says the data that is really interesting, that 10% of the settlements in Serbia have been named after the forests. Here, Šumarica, in my Kragujevac, Šumarica in Kralje, Cerovac and Žirovnica, again next to Kragujevac, Leskovac, the big city of the former Serbian Manchester, the large industrial centre, then Šumatovac in Belgrade, Bukovik near Arangelovac, Drenov near Trstenik, Bukulja Mountains near Arangelovac, Brezovica, Jablanica etc. Even many historians and chroniclers, throughout the centuries, have recorded very great mumbling and other benefits that Serbian citizens have seen on their journeys. What you have well noted is that it is almost 50, maybe even over 50% of the forest in Serbia is done without adequate permission and despite the loss of income, it is certain that the greater damage to cutting without a good professional assessment. The tree that is making excellent progress, which has a great growth, will cut the layman because it is easier for him to send it out of the woods and in that part what the law now regulates is good and it is good that forest guards are given official status. It is certain that our citizens, above all, who use their own forest owners who use forests for their own heating, will have these administrative problems, but unfortunately it is a demand of a modern age, it is a general interest and I think that all of them should be absolutely aware. So in Europe, it is also a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe and which we should fully adhere to. What's also interesting is that the problems we have in forest management and as a significant national, general good, they're not lonely in the world. These are about the average problems that plague the modern world, since in the last ten years, tree health has been significantly disrupted in the world. Every fourth tree is damaged. The number of trees that lose leaves has doubled. Analysis and examination of 125 species of trees in 30 countries of the world. I understand, of course, that air pollution in Eastern and Western Europe is a major problem for the health of trees and that the biggest enemy of forests is sulfur dioxide. Of course, the United States is not immune to this problem because in the last 200 years they have had an ivy to cut trees, even some significant areas have been devastationed, which is completely contrary to the forest management that needs to be done in another way. In Europe, the worst situation is the October forests in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Romania and Belarus. As for the quarterers in the south of France and the north of Spain. What we've been following up on public debate is that in the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law, it is true that all interested entities are involved. The law has also been declared by the "Serbian" and the owners of forest users, scientific institutions, institutes, educational institutions, professional associations, provinces, NGOs and we have no fundamental objections to the very text of amendments and additions to the law. I've established engineers from "Serbishum", they're quite satisfied with what's been done. I asked if we had to work something out. They said nothing to spoil it. Which is just fine. Now, I have a dilemma. When paying forest charges, I think maybe there was something closer to the criteria for deforestation. For what? Because then everything is left to one case for 5% of the market value, and in the other, the assessment of the court's expert is left to the other. Since I have a very rich experience with court crafts, I'm afraid of it at first. I fear the kind of giving of broad powers somehow, believe in today's justice as it is, it is said to him, who is the first expert, an expert in it. I'm afraid of this only abuse, and I think the Ministry of Sublaws should be closer to setting up clear criteria that must be adhered to and the court's expert so we don't go from case to case in the same situations, but totally different estimates and levels of payment. It is good that now, in the law of clean cutting, the forest is prescribed when clean cutting is allowed, or as a regular form of forest restoration or for the construction of pipelines, PTT cables, optical cables, removal of the resulting environmental incidents and so on. What we have indeed had in recent years besides the fires in the summer months was a normal and characteristic phenomenon we had a lot of ice and environmental disasters, especially in eastern Serbia last winter. It is good that you and the planning documents have provided for this part of the intervention to be installed in environmental incidents, as well as for the change in the purpose of land that it is possible, after changing the purpose of land, to convert forest into another land, to carry out an adequate book. No one mentioned here, there was talk of the Duke's statute, and the Constitutional Court's decision to respect how this future forest management in Vojvodina will be arranged, we'll see. For now, it's about eight district forest management areas. We are absolutely supporters of all decentralisation. For what? I think, for example, for the "Fruška Gora" National Park, we can all be interested in being in the best possible condition, but the most interesting thing about it is that in any case, people living there or near the national park. I'm talking about bossing. I also think of all other national parks. Someone from Vojvodina cannot be more important in how to manage Tara National Park than in people living in the area. So in that part, it seems to me that the ministry should think the way we think, which is not only for the sake of decentralisation, but for the acceptance of life's reality. The Duke's is the least forested area. We also had that case two years ago of elemental accidents on the highway of Novi Sad-Subotica, one of the main reasons why road congestion and the danger of life and the safety of many citizens is that trees were cut down along the highway, or that there was not enough noise around the property. Vojvodina, as well as the rest of Serbia, has been pummeling certain areas for protection and from the winds with its planned documents over a decade. We know that the topola of its natural habitat is one of the more represented species of trees, unlike the rest of Serbia, which is dominated by a beech of 29% in the urinary tract, cher with 15.3%, acacia, jasca and beige with 9.9%, a gram with 5.3% but it has the smallest natural growth, a pine with 5.6%, a death rate of 3.8%, a yova with 0.3%, etc. It is a good thing that this vacuum in the management of a large part of our forests now exceeds and that in a clear way prescribes procedures for who will manage forests, and who can and under what conditions can be their user, which in any case will have a significant impact on not only the illegal cutting of forests but on the care of the health of forests and their maintenance. There will certainly be big and administrative problems around the escort and dispatch, because especially before the heating season when owners, first of all, of the owners of the physical faces, the owners of the forest want to cut down wood for heating. I know how many guards there are who can give permission to cut the trees. I know that there will be great problems because, simply and physically, they will not be able to do all that and I believe that this trend as it is now, in that part, is likely to continue. This may first and foremost be damage to the unprofessional cutting and to the poor assessment that the tree needs to be cut. Anyway, because of what we think is good at these changes and additions, because, here's the previous law, it's done a great stupidity where you literally couldn't cut down a tree without the consent of the ministry, which was completely contrary to life. What is the significance of a developed world, which is given to a tree. I also saw on a personal case in Germany, in Bavaria, a small town next to a stream an entire crew came out with several helmets, etc., with equipment to save one willow. I think it's really a real example of the high level of consciousness of a community about the importance of every tree, of general interest. Believe that all day of professional service worked on it until they saved one willow, which our average man would say - let's cut it off with no torture. I think that kind of raising awareness with a campaign run by the ministry and all the other interested subjects is something that will certainly have its full effect. For the reasons I have now stated we will in voting day support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37091	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37092	I would like to start by stressing my personal position, that is, the position of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina parliamentary group, so that, for example, today's proposal to amend the Law on Forests should be considered when we were considering the Law on National Parks or the future amendment of the law, if I understood well the last time we discussed the Law on National Parks two weeks ago to predict, i.e. the amendment of the Nature Protection Act. I think this is extremely important, so it would be good if these three laws had simply been discussed in some kind of joint debate package and to get, I think, a better document. The general impression is, and also here in your discussion where you said who was all involved in the public debate, etc., it appears that in fact this law was internally, it had an intrasectoral approach, i.e. within the forestry sector. What is given in the law concerns mainly improving the control of forest and forestry activities. It will make significant progress, which we all agree more or less. Namely, it will contribute to better control and sanctioning illegal cutting and trade in forest products. However, in the public debate that was held, as far as I saw from the site, in July of the month, I see that July 15th was held in the National Park "Fruška gora" and when I asked around, I see that there were no representatives of the Nature Protection Institute participated. I don't even know if any of the other representatives from the environmental protection sector, i.e. primarily nature protection, took part in this public debate, which I think is a lack in this whole thing. I think it is extremely important, because only in the course of application will there be any discrepancies with the requirements of nature protection, that is, those elements that are given in the regulations that govern this area. Although, normally, it was published on the site and it was available to everyone who was interested, but I just want to know if representatives from the field of environmental protection were invited to participate actively in this debate? The second thing, that is, what I want to focus my discussion on, is exactly what the reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments to the Law on the Forests listed in the reasoning, which is, you can assume, about the competences of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, one of the reasons is, I will repeat, we have heard this but I do not think it mind repeating it many times, that the provisions of the law are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision of 13 July 2012, and are in relation to the powers of the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry, which, as an unconstitutional declaration, is the provision of Article 18(1). The Law establishing the competence of the 2009 AP Vojvodina, that the AP Vojvodina regulates forestry on the territory of the province and ensures that public interest is achieved in this area. A short time ago, we heard from the minister's explanation that this had just been taken away, so that the Republic of Serbia would have gained public interest, as if the AP had not achieved public interest in its territory so far. So, if the members of the law are analysed to see these powers that are abolished, there is one next string, so I'm going to go through that series of members. Namely, in Article 4, which is complemented by Article 10(2). The forest law, it is prescribed that, besides the forest, the change in the purpose of forest land referred to in Article 10 be carried out with the consent of the Ministry and the consent of the regional authority responsible for forestry affairs has been abolished, again in accordance with this constitutional decision. Next, Article 12 is amended and complemented by Article 19. Forest law. It is the member referring to the forestry development programme for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest planning document, the programme for the development of forestry in the territory of the AP is being abolished again because of, I say, the Constitutional Court's decision on the jurisdiction of the AP in the area of forestry. However, here is another interesting newspaper in this article, it is prescribed that the said programme, as a roof document, brings the government instead of the National Assembly, and that the government submits every five years a report on the implementation of the forest development programme, which means otherwise that now that we adopt this law, it will be our most practically final encounter with the forest development programme, because it will be adopted by the government in the future and the ministry will submit a report to the government, and we will only have contact with this topic when new laws are passed or amendments to the existing law, which I do not think is good. Article 14. - the new content of the forest development plan is prescribed and the mandates of the AP are abolished, i.e. the right of the AP to adopt a plan for the development of forests in the AP, again for those reasons, to be declared against the constitutional decision. It's only with the next members of the province, so to speak, that it gets the opportunity to decide, i.e. It could be said that there are minors, but not entirely. In this regard, Article 17 provides for a procedure for the adoption of the basics, the forest grounds, so that the province's authority responsible for the affairs of forestry can adopt a management programme, but with the agreement of the ministry, thus ensuring that the Constitutional Court again implements that decision. So, from this moment on, the Constitutional Court has made it possible for us, but with supervision or so to say with the tutor, we can decide when the woods are at stake. Article 28 is amended in Article 42, which prescribes the obligations to protect forests and here it is said that owners and users of forests are obliged to act on the recommendations of a scientific and research institution that conducts the reporting and diagnosis forecasts, and we have heard that it has passed over to the full authority of the Republic of Serbia, but can now submit reports to the competent regional authority. So, the competent regional authority can get a report, an honest one, doesn't decide on any other matters, but it can get a report, even if they have information on what it is, the scientific institution that was hired by the Republic, found, or its report. Article 30 complements Article 44 concerning the performance of reporting-diagnose jobs in the protection of forests from plant diseases and pests, in a way that provides security, we heard, as the minister said, but I will repeat, provides for the Republic of Serbia throughout the territory and deletes the authority of the autonomous province. And it is said in the explanation that, I would like to stress, that the objections that relate to the financing of certain transactions from the AP Vojvodina budget have been accepted, given that it is in the process of harmonising the draft law with the Constitutional Court's decision. I think part of the jurisdiction, so it's been lifted and transferred to the Republic of Serbia. So, giving jurisdiction to a piece, I'm afraid it's going to be hard to produce good results in practice, and I just haven't been able to figure out how much money it is now, what it's taking away, what it's all being given, how it's going to be used, where the fees, where the fees are, where the fees, I simply have to admit, I didn't get along and simply, I expect this practice to show how it's actually going to work in the future. Next in my presentation, I want to look at the state, some things, some percentages, and we've heard the data, but first of all I want to talk about some global things, because I come from a world of environmental protection. Unfortunately, we usually remember the importance of forests when significant dates are marked, such as the World Forest Day on March 21st, or as World Environment Day on June 5th, then various events are organized, children from school are performed, etc., it appears in the media and then phrases can be heard that the purpose of marking the Forest Day is to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of forests and improve sustainable forest management. In the light of this proposal to amend the Law on Forests, one flossule that is precisely the greatest argument is that better forest management is referred to. Some of the general facts are that areas under the forests in the world are rapidly shrinking. This also contributes to the global warming process of the planet. According to UN data, the last 15 years of forest surfaces in the world have fallen by more than threefold the size of Germany. By the size and role of the environment, forests have great importance, and we can hear it now, because they are a stabiliser of the climate, they are the main regulator of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the air, they are involved in the purification of polluted air. That's why they acquired the epithet of the biosphere. Forests have the greatest impact on dust treatment and other particles that reach the atmosphere, have a hydrological and water-protective function, a significant role in preventing floods. The woods prevent erosion. We've had opportunities, unfortunately, to make sure on the spot what it means when we ignore the role of the forest in the protection against erosion and when it's built completely out of control. And in the great rain, what unfortunately happened in Serbia happens. So it prevents the occurrence of rinks and soil discolouration, and in particular it prevents Eolian erosion, something that is particularly important when it comes to Vojvodina. These are facts that you can read either on the Internet or in any textbook. But what is the characteristic of our area, and I will first and foremost look back on the situation in Vojvodina, namely, according to the World Bank for the period 2012 to 2015, the least forests in the region have Serbia and Albania. That's the information I made when there was a debate about national parks. In Serbia, we heard, forests cover about 30% on average. The average is a miracle. Vojvodina has about 6.8% to 7%, it is handled with this data, and Serbia's narrowness is over 30%, and BiH, as a comparison, has about 43%, although it is said to have a very largely uncontrollable cut there, but continues to have decent noise. Then, Montenegro, in which about 40% of the noise, Macedonia is slightly below 40%, Croatia is close to 35% and of the countries of the wider region of the Balkans or from the former republics of Yugoslavia, is the richest in green mildness of Slovenia, which has more than 60% deforestation. Let me repeat what I said two weeks ago, that's why I'm sure they don't have an allergy to respiratory organs in Slovenia and they don't have any dust in the air. To return only to the territory of Vojvodina, I have already said, about 6.8, that's some information that appears in official documents. Here, now we hear there's going to be an inventory. I think a lot has been done by now, but if a project has been obtained that's going to record the situation, that once we finally have a cross-section and we're not dealing with arbitrary data. Only then I wonder what kind of information we gave the World Bank if we don't have an inventory, but okay, I'm not going to talk about it right now. In Vojvodina, there is a particular problem with the schedule of forests, because it is concentrated on six surfaces, about 90% and this small percentage of total noise is concentrated on 90% of the surface of Vojvodina. It is Fruška Gora, Posavina, Deliblatska pescara, Vršački Breg, Subotic pedestrian and narrow belt along the Danube and Tisa. Respecting all the functions that have forests, the state of deforestation in Vojvodina is, you might say, alarming. The planned increase in noise based on some of the documents that I had the opportunity to see is about 12%, and this requires the establishment of about 100,000 hectares of new different forms of forest and protective greenery. When I say protective greenness, I would stop there and I think it's very important to lift exactly the protective green belts, primarily windy belts along the roads, which are garbage protectors, protection from the lateral blow of the wind, and Vojvodina usually has a problem with periods with strong winds, summers prevent the overheating of asphalt. That's all the point of those seat belts. Unfortunately, Belgrade-Subotica highways have not yet been planted, although, if you remember, in February 2014, more precisely on February 5th, the prime minister took part in the rescue of children and garbage at Feketic, and then it was said to be on an urgent move to raise wind protection belts. Except for some 15 closed-down strangers in one of the parts we've seen, the owner himself probably planted it himself, nothing more than some organized, planned planting, at least you can't see in the field. According to the Law of Public Roads, I'd like to stop at what jurisdiction there will be. According to the Law on Public Roads, this is the obligation "The Way of Serbia". The province has no jurisdiction over the roads, to clarify immediately, have municipalities and have "Serbian Roads", depending on the category. So, "Serbian Roads", when it comes to highways, maintains their legal obligation to maintain a green belt, which is written by them in their Law on Public Roads, only by cutting grass. This morning when I was coming, all I can see is that they're cutting grass, no one's planting any trees anywhere. It is a massive phenomenon that along the roads even the bushes and low growth are removed and that the plots, at least the ones present in Vojvodina, process to the asphalt itself, if it is known that Vojvodina has about 80% of the working surfaces and there are large tables along the roads, then it can be clearly seen. That, unfortunately, is what municipalities and local communities do and the property owners themselves, without any sanctions. It is only necessary to move to one of the neighbouring countries, whether in Hungary or Croatia, and to see how it is in other countries, now EU member states, arranged, that they have whole belts of protection trees. Unfortunately, it's not there yet. Then, wind protection belts are also important with arable surface due to wind erosion. According to some data I've had the opportunity to see from the Novi Sad Institute of Warning, an annual wind takes about a ton of land from a hectare in Vojvodina. Unfortunately, new owners also destroyed those belts that had been planted earlier, and their role was precisely to prevent Eolian erosion. The noise around the settlement and in the settlements itself is alarmingly small. There are municipalities in Vojvodina that have a hammock below 1%. It's very easy to cut the old woodwork as a sick person, we're witnessing it in cities, say, New Sad, or unprofessionally trim, so it takes years to get that tree back, and its main purpose is to create a cold, to prevent the wind from causing damage. With this law, the status of the forest only has a forest greater than five acres, for which the forest inspector is responsible. For all other minor plantings or individual trees, other inspections shall be responsible, i.e. a municipal inspection shall be indicated. I'm afraid, we're witnessing, that very easily citizens choose to cut, especially now in the heat shortage. I'm afraid that's what's going to happen. Unfortunately, we had this in the '90s when many trees were cut along the canals and settlements. So until a real inspector is called to prevent damage, the damage can already be done. If we know that a topola takes about 10 years to reach a full cross, and that oak takes 40 years, then I'm afraid we have to define more precisely what kind of inspector is going to be in charge of, in order for the citizens to know who to turn to. They usually turn to the police, normally, who is not in charge of it. It happens that it's literally a race with time to prevent some kind of illegal cutting. My domain of interest is the importance of the forest to achieve cleaner air. By examining the quality of air in certain cities in Vojvodina, they showed the excesses of suspended particles, which are, in layman's mind, floating particles containing dust have the ingredients of exhaust gas, industry and energy facilities. It would help the leafers to reduce this pollution, and in the summer months to reduce the use of air conditioning, as one cross can replace several air conditioning devices. According to some estimates, i.e. data, to reforest unsuspecting forest land and to improve the state of existing forests and the expected increase in wood production, which is normally expected of the forest, about 110m euros should be invested in Vojvodina, but we are now not seeing from what sources the Vojvodina could in any way in this relationship of power provide these funds. One more thing, ultimately, to point out that as the Republic, we are signatories of the UN Development Agenda, which contains the objectives of sustainable development for the next period, that is, 2016-2030, which was adopted by 193 UN members. There are 17 basic objectives of sustainable development and 169 sub-targets. For the purposes of regular number 15, it is said that our obligations as signatories, as well as all other signatories, will be to protect, restore, promote a sustainable earthly eco-system, sustainable forest management, counter desertification and stop and reverse land degradation and stop biodiversity loss. That's the exact definition that stands in this document. We've been committed since September of the month to harmonize our development policy with these adopted facts and define the funding model. This is what is always a stumbling block with us – how and from what means will it be financed? I'm taking the opportunity to ask – when will the Green Fund be adopted, because you've announced it in September of the month, but now it's not mentioned? So if we don't all go and turn to the protection of the forest and their true role, we're hardly going to achieve anything, except for these periodic reports that we're weak at what we've achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37093	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37094	Thank you. Thank you MPs for such a good discussion and for considering the various aspects of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law. It's just, you've raised a lot of questions, and I'm just going to do some, as much time as I can, and answer it. I mean, it's not true that we don't have inventory data. I just said that. You asked the question – how did we deliver the information to the World Bank for Forest Inventory, if we don't own it? We do. It's an inventory that was made in 2004, 2006 and I just said that we provided funding from a donation from the Kingdom of Norway worth 600,000 dollars. Usually the inventory works for 10 years. So, it follows us from next year to get into the new business of inventory of the forest, and I said that this project that we've applied for has been given technical consent, that it's worth 3.5 million dollars. We also expect final consent from the Governing Board of the Global Environment Fund, and thus we will have the opportunity to actually create one universal inventory, not just of wood mass, but of all that remains benefits that are derived from the forest. I said it was both biodiversity and the hunting structure and production of carbon, etc. We have an inventory that is still valid. You mentioned data on the degree of deforestation, that is, the noise of Serbia. You compared that data to the countries in the environment with Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, with which you already said we have the slightest delicacy. We can't even compare Serbia and Slovenia that easily. There are some other natural factors, geographical characteristics that determine the noise of an area. What you're right about is that the degree of noise is lower than the average at the level of the entire state. Indeed, it is a modest degree of noise, but it can also be justified in some way by the fact that it is an area, that it is a string in which it dominates or prevails agricultural land. In any case, that degree is low and should work on its increase. In doing so, I must say that there is a fund, a budget fund for forests in the Republic and a budget fund for forests in the autonomous province, which is charged with forest charges. I don't know if those funds have been used well enough in the province or not, or whether they need to be paid attention in the next period so that they are very focused on shaming. You say, "Where?" So, out of compensation, this budget fund, these envisaged changes resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision, the AP does not take away, it remains at the AP level, and it will certainly invest it in the dealings concerning the shaming and increasing percentages of Vojvodina's cash flow. You've just expressed some kind of suspicion that all of this will now work when we've amended the law to comply with the law, that is, the Constitutional Court's provision. I just wanted to tell you that this is what we had to do and do, so some instance, the institution above us has assessed what is constitutional and what is not. I must tell you that at the level of the province's secretariat and our ministry, or the authorities within the ministry responsible for the affairs of forestry, there is a high degree of agreement and there is no reason to question them now whether they have agreed well. I am sure that as colleagues they understood perfectly, that they understood the need for this one strategic document at the level of the state, that they understood the need for a joint performance when it comes to inventory, and everything else is, therefore, what was practically what was before except, here, changing the purpose of forest land into some other kind, etc. which is now defined and to be worked by the Ministry. Everything else they've agreed, it's for example and commendation and I just want to say that it's not among them, at least there's no such information that there's some dissension between them in that sense. When we talk about it, you also asked if there were any institutions involved in nature protection? They were in. You mentioned this official public debate that was organised somewhere from flight, but before the official public debate there was an extremely large number of these joint working meetings with different stakeholders, including nature protection services, including NGOs, associations, etc. So in that part too, we have complete statistics that we can deliver to you so that I do not now burden all present Members of the Parliament, exactly when, where and how a presentation was held, a working meeting, etc. Finally, this was an official and public debate. Three presentations, three public stands, were held in the framework of the official public debate, and indeed there was a wide range of participants who talked, i.e. who analysed each proposed member. As far as these lanes are concerned by the roads you've mentioned, we've made it clear by this law what the forest is. So every tree is not a forest. What you mentioned, which is very important is extremely important and well that is still not in the jurisdiction of our ministries, but these are more municipal issues. We hereby establish that the forest area is at least five acres with adequate coverage of forest crowns, or trees. So it doesn't belong to us, and it's not part of us. Now that I've answered, here's the fee that MP Chikiriz just asked for, for forest charges. He's not here, but for the other MPs to answer. So the fees are governed by a special law. This law on the amount of compensation for the use of natural resources or natural goods is in preparation. We couldn't get into all the details with this law. We just set the basis for determining the fee for using the forest, or wood. This base is not like now the total income from the landlord, but the total income from the use of the forest. Because the total income from forest management involves not only forest varieties, i.e. wood, but a number of other products, i.e. revenues, which are generated and which are the source of the forest. As for the documentation, he says – will we succeed, or will our owners be able to easily obtain documentation that must now be followed by a tree in traffic? Yes, there will be documentation more, but it's something that used to exist, which was used to both forest inspectors and forest keepers and especially owners and forest users. That file was suspended in 2010. We're returning it now, it is a bigger deal, but it's one of the measures that are recognised as essential for reducing the illegal cuttings of the forest. So we just have to get used to it, and that documentation has to follow the tree in traffic. We're returning the authority to the forest inspector. He was given the role of control only in the context of the forest with the 2010 law. He no longer had jurisdiction over the woods. Now he'll have the authority to follow the tree in traffic. So that's how we want to reduce illegal cuts. We just said, about 2.9 million cubic trees we register as cut, and all our projects and all our research say that six million cc's are cut annually. So half is past the law. We've been fenced and we're saying we don't think that's all 50% of the thefts. Of those 50, it's a significant part of the forest they cut down to the owner. They're the owners who want to get themselves a heating tree. But because of them, we cannot introduce this system of tracking, or the traceability of the tree, from the place of origin to the end of the consumer. So we're all going to have to discipline ourselves, because our goal is to protect the woods, what we have and use them the right way. Because just as important as it is to prevent illegal cutting, it is important to prevent a cut that is not controlled by professionals, because in some cases, as the MPs have noticed, the wood that is practically not to be cut is left out, the necessary professional supervision is left out, and that is just as much damage to us. So, both the illegal cutting and the unprofessional management of forests and the compensation and everything else that carries such a single procedure. So now we are restoring more jurisdiction to forest inspectors and simply offering systemic solutions and we want to be serious in further forest development programmes, to contribute to making this sector truly significantly better than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37095	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative, Dr. Muamer Bačevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37096	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, MPs, distinguished minister, guests, as the debate progresses, it is increasingly clear that it is a very important law. We also thank the minister who has now very extensively explained everything that we can, by legal means, improve, a truly abandoned area. We've seen the minister very soon. This shows and proves what I said, a serious desire to legalize a lot of problematic matter, as is the matter of the forest. This law is extremely important, and this is what its objectives are, to create a coherent governance structure, to make quality plans, development programmes, to carry out more serious controls. It is certainly the biggest problem, as well as taking care of quality management of these resources. Of course, this reduction has started rapidly since World War II, as a result of the rise of larger settlements, industrialization, the rise of household facilities for the use of food, wood sales, etc., and the restoration of forests and forest potentials has gone very slowly and poorly organized. And, here, we have what we have today. If we add that to frequent accidents, you've seen in the last ten years that we've had serious fires that have destroyed about 10,000 acres of forest, and with illegal urine, well, all of this has led to this condition as it is today. I'm glad we're trying to make this kind of legal solution, making some quality tool that will have people dealing with the woods, to stop the burning problem, which is destruction, illegal cutting and practically stealing forests and trees in our forests. It is a special quality of this law. We see that those provisions of the 2010 Law, which have proved to be extremely bad on the ground, are being abolished. Can't be responsible for a tree just in the woods, like you just said, it has to follow the entire course and it's a great solution. It is clear that our market inspection did not even have the opportunity to wash it out with its capacities. It was a very bad solution, and I don't know who it occurred to. And this example, which a colleague said, that if the police stopped someone carrying a particular tree, who had no documents, no stamp, no escort, they could only raise their hands and report to a forest inspector who had no jurisdiction whatsoever. It is corrected by this law and it is the most important part. And not only that, we're going to see that there are a number of other models that are going to end up being stolen, because the situation in this sector is really bad. We see that another one of these proposals is both a proposal and a measure to introduce mandatory documentation, an escort, next to a brand that will be on the tree and that will have to at any time during transport to show people who are engaged in the transport or sale of this material, which will be another of the protective additional mechanisms. A particular problem, apart from this classic theft, is the large amount of wood that the owners in their forests cut, and we know that one large part belongs to them and in that traffic about 700,000 to 800,000 cubic metres sell them. And there are the biggest malfeasances, given that this tree is mostly sold on black and is avoided the obligation to pay compensation, which is why the state of Serbia is further losing in this forest potential. The amendments to the provisions concerning forest inspectors, i.e. to assume those responsibilities are practically forest inspectors, and not more market inspectors, give them appropriate tools to prevent illegal deforestation. We have also seen that from now on, courts will be able to make very express decisions on applications based on this law and direct measures, which is to take away wood and other articles obtained. As you said, there are more products that can be used in the woods. It's another of the protective mechanisms and tools that we can and need to do with the illegal cutting. I spoke to your ministry, I thought twice, through questions and pointed to a difficult situation in the forest sector throughout the country, and especially in Sandzak, given that the fires, but above all with one human negligence, illegal logging and forest abuse in this area, have been devastated. I have made an application to further examine the operations of the forest administrations in this area. A number of newspapers wrote about some forest mob and wrote about how to steal our mining potential. As readers, we were limited to how people were so irresponsiblely misusing our common good. One of the main ways is to reclassify the tree, which is these logs, where people are the particular tree that the first quality depicted as the third, etc. In this way, they have done great damage to the state of Serbia. With these escorts, if we can avoid what's been happening so far, including the traffic police and forest inspectors. The second thing is also an instruction in these newspaper articles that a lot of abuse and land available to the forest administration, so I ask you to take this issue seriously and what we suggest. Unfortunately, my area is borderline, and there has been a lot of theft by people, and it's organized theft, organized action by people who are not from our territories, but from surrounding territories, who have entered our territories, the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and have devastated a part of the forest's wealth. This is what Serbia needs to pay particular attention to and take care of. The proposed law corrects another failure of the previous law, as it was not intended for local self-government directly to be legally available, i.e. public undertakings in whose jurisdiction to manage forests. Now it's enabled. Local self-government units are also given the opportunity to finance forest conservation, protection and improvement. Local self-government can also contribute to the preservation and restoration of forest treasure. In the town of Novi Pazar, where I come from, really recently, in the last five years, since it's been in power of the SDP and since we and our coalition partners have practically run the city, we've done a lot of things to greening and enriching the flora in the city itself. Whoever comes to Novi Pazar will see that we've tried to change the city's appearance completely and I believe that's what we've done. We planted noble trees and flowers. Several hundred trees were planted along two large rivers. Central streets are also encased in acacia trees. We had one donation from the Republic of Turkey of 400 young trees, etc. Certainly this legal solution gives greater responsibility, but also the obligation for local self-governments to do much more to greening and enriching the eco-system they have, thinking about the forests they belong to. I think that's what we do in the New Market very well and in the right way. The current Forest Act foresees the existence of a Chamber of Forest Engineers. For five years, however, it has not functioned because it has had a shortage in the legal provision, it has had a lack of funding, it has not provided financing. These amendments to the laws allow us to work on this chamber from January 1st, which is very important because it cares about the profession, it will carry out evaluations, it will educate people who deal with forests and it will eventually issue licences and renew licences. I mean, it's a kind of thing that she'll be self-sustaining on. So it's not just the republican money that's going to cost, it's going to have its own money and its own money. It is very important to me that the courts of honor and professional responsibility will become within this chamber, which will reward the likely ones who make a certain contribution, but also punish people who abuse their position. I can say that many indications suggest that there has been enough and that, if there are, these people are punished and expelled from the system itself, because they must be the main promoters and they must take care of the forests most, but also transfer knowledge about the forests. Here, we're assigning this law to the foresters another benefit, they'll get official status. In this way we want to show how much we take care of them, but also of them, knowing that their work is extremely difficult and responsible, we give one of these statuses, but they are also asked for one responsibility, above all to promote the values that we have. A total of seven forest areas are being introduced, it is defined. I'm going to commit to the previous law we've been working here, which your ministry has done great, about national parks, of course. Seeing the need to protect more valuable ecosystems in Serbia so far has been placed under the special protection of 534.000 hectares of forests within national parks, 15 nature parks, 50 strict and 21 special nature reserves. It's another way in which you, along with us, distracted this forest and made it impossible for it to be misused. The significance of the forest, we've heard here, to preserve the ecosystem is enormous and we've heard from preserving the biosphere, quality health, to preventing certain things that would be truly catastrophic in our country. On the other hand, today in the whole world, including in the Republic of Serbia, there are also plans for industry, industrial production, above all, willows and poplars, or their forests that serve to produce cellulose, or paper, and in the last 20 years there has been an increased interest in raising dedicated forests for the production of biomass that is increasingly sought on the European and world market. I'm glad and it's really good information that we heard here today from the minister, that the total value of the goods, or the benefits that we have from our forest treasure, is about 700 million euros a year, which is a really big thing, significant, and what we really need to cultivate. I want to, in light of this, suggest that we must develop this predisposition that our forest treasure can serve us with quality restoration and care and industrial progress and that is something to work on. In the end, I thank you for the information, and I received in writing, that the shaming continues, that the burned-out regions in my area, but also in all parts of the region are being regularly forested, that we have a good trend. And what's good is, one of the MPs said that we should work more on the promotion, that it's the only safe path we can rebuild, because everyone remembers this country in the woods. You know what that song says - in the woods and mountains, which our liberators sang. I want to conclude. He said the great Montai, that a ship that has no purpose, every wind is unfavourable. Thank God, we have a good manager at the Ministry of Agriculture and I want to believe that this law is another law that we will move forward to solving the serious problems it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37097	Thank you, Mr. Bacevac. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Ivan Karic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37098	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I will try to be quick, concise and not too comprehensive, and at first I realize that there would be no confusion, this law is not disastrous, that I act preventively on a punishment that can happen when the truth is spoken, and this time it is true that this law is not catastrophic, but the previous time it was true that the previous National Parks Act was disastrous and it was only shown in these two weeks. But the fact that this law isn't catastrophic, that this law isn't so bad, doesn't mean it couldn't have been a little more modern. It does not mean that this law could not use a little more of the principles of the green economy and in one part to encourage the production of bio-mass more decisively and to say, in a way, more clearly obliging owners, users, public enterprises to invest on degraded surfaces. For example, only in the Kolubar base graduation and degraded surfaces and dunes are measured by thousands of hectares, and the noise is measured by dozens of hectares. We have a declaration that they have to do it, unfortunately, and it is not a grudge to your ministry at all, but for how many years and decades there is a Kolubara, not enough, not enough investment in the recovery and insufficient investment in the recultivation of degraded areas. The main objection to this law by our SDS parliamentary group – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia – is not enough funds to invest in the area of forestry. It feels like somewhere in this law. We continue to stick to that old-fashioned, rigid, budget fund that doesn't give enough inventiveness, which doesn't give enough opportunity to speed up investment in restoration and, above all, in the planting of new forests. That's what we have in a few amendments. I didn't say at first that we wouldn't vote for this law, I didn't say we were against this law, we're ready to discuss amendments, if you seriously consider our amendments, if you're willing to accept our amendments, we will certainly support this law. After that, Green Serbia, first of all, but also our SDS parliamentary group – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia – thinks there is a lack of an investment forest fund. You know that the Greens insist on it every time we talk about the environment, about natural resources, we have to think about raising energy plantations on the demoted surfaces, we have a lot of slides, we have a lot of earthed land, and we think that from that one investment fund we could finance useful forest functions, plus we're thinking about preventing natural disasters. And keep in mind that maybe someone said it today, 50% of the rain that falls on the good forest stays in that forest, in the soil, in the root. In order to ensure that the collapse of the Kolubara region was significantly higher, the effects of the flood in Obrenovac and the entire Kolubar region would be less. So these are the recommendations that we always make and that we always support the Ministry's efforts, you may sometimes not understand us well-intentioned, sometimes they're bile, but there must be an investment fund in protecting the environment and in the forestry that will encourage, to push us to warn natural disasters, to warn the climate change that we talk about a lot. And not to speak yesterday, we were at the presentation of the UN programme for sustainable development and into seventeen points that are very demanding and large both for the state of Serbia and for the competent ministry. What we sometimes differ from saying in internal politics or in this part of the environment policy, of course, that the Greens require maximum protection of the environment. Of course, neoliberal capitalism requires a minimum or possible elimination of environmental protection. We need to think about these investment funds that show that investment in the green economy is a gain and that there is no cost of protecting the environment. The third main complaint is the recovery due to natural disasters, snowfalls, fire, wind, must not be left alone, must not be left to the owners, and above all, we have said that when it comes to floods and ecological disasters, we must say, to make and propose national mandatory insurance and reassurance of forests from the risk of damage caused by natural disasters and environmental disasters. Our SDS – ZZ – ZS – Parliament group talked about this when we talked about floods and environmental disasters, and we never found a way to make one national mandatory insurance and reassurance from risks that can arise from environmental and other natural disasters. The Greens believe that there are no more elementary disasters and that in the 21st century everything represents an ecological disaster, because it is the greatest cause of man. These three shortcomings I have listed are the main cause of this law. We think he'd be better off if these three things were integrated into the law and that's why, let me say, our SDS-ZZ-ZS MPs are recommending this way that the law could be better. Not to mention natural pests, lepers and everything that happened in eastern Serbia. I know there's a forest fund that partially rehabilitated it, but we believe there must be funds that are reserved, secured and that can always be intervened with. Unlike the fund in this third paragraph, we're talking about the Investment Fund, like that Green Investment Fund that you announced. Serbia is in the middle of a European country scale where the forests are illegally cut, and that is not, I say, defeating the data, and our SDS-ZZS-ZS parliamentary group believes this can be potentially dangerous for Serbia and that illegal cutting can endanger Serbia's natural treasure. In particular, there are cases in southern Serbia when unsupervised and insufficiently respond quickly. We have also addressed you with parliamentary questions in the previous government, but also you, we have received answers, you are now in the last year and a half of the ministers, so you are the minister who answers the most poor questions and thank you for that. There are ministries that ignore parliamentary issues and don't pass on answers at all, but we have addressed you precisely because of these cuts in southern Serbia, Koziak, Kukavica, Dolina Pcinje. And, please, there must be no selective justice in Serbia. It doesn't matter who illegally cuts the woods and I ask you to punish everyone equally, no matter if they're the owners, whether they're public enterprises, whether it's local self-government, whether it's church. Anyone who cuts must be punished, despite the fact that in Serbia, which is declared secular, there are protected groups of people who are untouchable. The church must not be excluded from this rule, because very often it happens to misjudge forest treasures. Interesting data is also that the noise in Serbia is by the head of the population of 0.3 hectares unlike Serbia but it is understandable that in Russia it is 11.11 hectares, that in Norway it is 6.93 hectares, that in Finland 5.91 hectares per capita, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is 1.38, in Croatia. And what's for us is defeating the data, and it seems to me that you mentioned it, too, that it exists between 60% and 70% of the forests. We believe that the Investment Fund that we are talking about can also assume a commitment to ourselves, that instead of the publishing forests, we have forests from which in the future, in 2050, 2100, we can expect great profit and great value, not only in losses, but in what liberal economists always forget, which is air, clean water, drinking water and, of course, protection from environmental disasters. In the past two years, while we are already talking about environmental damage and disaster, we have suffered from these called natural disasters, the flood and the flood, over one billion euros in damage. This is inadmissible for Serbia, for a small economy and a small country with limited resources such as Serbia, and that is inadmissible, that pure memory must be considered, all that happens under the PTT pipelines. I'm afraid this exemption has been done first because of the wire. The Greens believe that this must be a change in the purpose of the forest and must necessarily pay compensation for raising new forests for all that is cut down, no matter what the reason or reason is. What makes us appeal to you here, that we should give opportunity to other public institutions that have the potential to manage forests, we mean institutes, colleges, but, above all, private companies, cooperatives, investment funds, we have a very interesting concept of eco companies that can also be the bearers of these major and significant investments and energy savings that we're talking about. An urgent EPS should be forced to reforest all degraded spaces, closed gaps and ash dumps. They should be urgently stimulated, not only, to say the least, and we cannot do so without the Environmental Protection Fund, to stimulate the introduction of mass into electricity production as soon as possible and to reduce the amount of coal and fossil fuels in beds and to increase the share of bio-mass. We today, 100% of electricity production is based on fossil fuels, I'm not talking about that part of renewable energy sources that can also be disputable since high dams are not renewable energy sources, and you'll soon learn from the European Commission and the EU in the course of the negotiations on Chapter 27, so we need to achieve these targets faster in renewable energy sources. We understand the need and wealth of coal in Serbia, but the goal of Green Serbia is to leave fossil fuels as soon as possible tomorrow. We can't do that unless we force the EPS to greenen its electricity production and make it work as soon as possible. Fast-growing willows, fast-growing plantations, paulovnie viscantus gianteus. There are dedicated species that can speed up production, and also increase oxygen production, but also reduce carbon production. The definition of forest and forest land can at first be disputable because meadows of fields, soiled fields, if not processed, forest growth may occur over several years, to say potentially the whole of Serbia can become a forest or forest zone. Due to the absence of relevant strategies, because of the absence of the power to think as a serious state for many years in advance, what nobody wants can happen to us, but it is a political and strategic issue that we have a forest without citizens of Serbia. The whole of Serbia can become a forest, but the whole of Serbia can become an empty space. We must also think about demographic influences and, let me say, in one strategy we are considering impacts of all other social, economic and other environmental effects. Of course, the Greens do not need such a development of forestry, nor do we desire it. Once again, let me say, the basic three regrets are an old-fashioned and rigid budget fund. We want and think that the investment forest fund can speed up investment, it can speed up investment in the energy sector, and reduce the impact of carbon dioxide on climate change. We must force as security guards, force and find economic instruments not to allow energy and mining to exploit natural resources but rather to return everything to its original purpose and its original appearance. We, in the last 70 years, seem to have not had a single properly recultivated bed, a properly recultivated mine, and yet it is our common mistake, and not just your mistake and what we will really insist on is national, mandatory insurance and reassurance of forests from the risk of damage caused by natural and environmental disasters. We are prepared really as the SDS parliamentary group, the U.S.S., to vote and to support this bill of yours if your ministry seriously, carefully consider your amendments if it is ready to accept some of the amendments, the amendments don't ruin the concept of your bill, I think we're accelerating it a little bit, and I think we're making it a little greener, and this way and with these amendments, we can make this law better. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that we will have opportunities and in the debate in the amendments, I have now not talked about amendments to clarify some details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37099	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37100	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that Green Serbia is on the same line today with the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and are seeking to protect and preserve the environment, today when we talk about forests to improve the situation in Serbia's forestry. That condition, you know, that it's not from a year ago, from two or ten years ago, it's a condition that's been inherited and that lasts for decades, but I can't just say that it's inherited, the situation is in some part and improved. I was just talking about the degree of Serbia's noise after World War II and today's degree of noise that was significantly increased from 16.7% after World War II, today to about 30%. What I'm trying to say, and what you have pointed out as a major regret for the proposed amendments and additions to this law, is the question of funding, how do you provide funds to increase the area under the forests of Serbia? I have to tell you, you're wrong. The situation here is that we have resources, but we can hardly improve, to increase the surface under the woods. What's our problem? Our problem is that forests are present at about 2,252,000 hectares. Of this area 51.98% are state forests, 48% are private forests, so about half, half. When it comes to private forests, the situation is such that a large number of small owners from 20 to 30 hectares is usually an average. Now, when we want to increase noise, we have a problem with a huge area belonging to the private sector and we can't motivate them to increase the noise in that part of the forest that's been foretold or to increase the area under the woods. So, every year, as part of the budget, we set aside the resources for shaming. This year, for example, we've singled out 75 million dinars for shaming 2,000 to 2,500 acres. The "Serbishum", a public company, also identifies a significant number of forest seedlings every year, but unfortunately, we do not have enough interests to identify these seedlings. So the financial resources here aren't a problem, and I have to tell you more that the problem isn't in Vojvodina, where we just talked about a low percentage of noise. In Vojvodina, about 90 million dinars are defined for shaming, but there are no interested. Private forests have no interest, because simple land is high-quality, high-value, is used as agricultural land, so this forestry is really extremely specific to these characteristics. In doing so, I must tell you, that is what you have mentioned in some part, the question of proper bossing, governance, the use of forests in certain parts of Serbia is indeed being brought under question. Why? Because the villages were devastated, because our forest owners and owners of agricultural land and houses and properties were gone. So it is not easy to improve or change something overnight, but it is good for our forest profession to reach a consensus to see the situation and to present to us as ambassadors and citizens of Serbia its vision, i.e. its guidelines for the development of forests and forestry in the coming years. I think that all of us together, these are professional issues, issues that go beyond party commitment or any impatience, so we all have to help the profession together, to give us what direction they are and what direction they are, because the woods are really more than what they get by using wood mass, much, much, much more. I believe that you were surprised to hear what we as a state and as a society should fulfill in the context of our global and regional obligations to the environment and to forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37101	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivan Karic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37102	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, the very core of our misunderstanding sometimes lies in the fact that our staff, our experts, the people who deal with the economy, the forestry, do not know the green economy. That's why we have a problem motivateing the owners to agree or accept to invest in forest plantings. We need to change Serbia's economic policy, which can be both a green economy and a circular economy, to find ways to encourage people to invest in what you're talking about. It is motivation, and the answer is hidden in the green economy, because there are long-term benefits of what these owners or private owners can have, and the state is constantly changing its policies or market instability on the one hand, in fact, leading to people not being allowed to invest in some so far that they will not get their profits for 12 or 20 years, that I'm not talking about something for 50 years. We need to talk more about the green economy. Your Ministry has started doing this, finding ways and not talking about the government giving some money to protect the environment or, in this case, forestry. There are fees that are intended, defined for this, not the revenue of the budget, but the fees that are intended, so that no one gives to anyone, but citizens through fees or legal entities and public enterprises, private companies...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37103	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37104	... That way, they pay the money of purpose, and they don't give the state to anyone's charity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37105	The word has been given by MP Gordana Topic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37106	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the forests belong to the largest and most complex land ecosystems on earth, and the importance of the forest community for the life and survival of our planet is contained in the most commonly used definition that the forests are the lungs of the planet. That's true. Forests are responsible for the fact that life on planet Earth still exists. This importance of forest ecosystems, as I am ecological, is recognised by Serbia from an economic and sociological aspect both through legal frameworks and through concrete measures. Ten days ago, we adopted the National Parks Act and further protected the forests and other flora and fauna in these specially protected areas. Today we are talking about once again for the protection of forests with a very important legal framework, and these are amendments to the Law on Forests, which is the legal basis for the protection and management of forests. The current forest law was passed ten years ago. A number of shortcomings have been seen in its application so far, that further improvement in forest protection and further development of the forestry sector was necessary to make changes to this law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests covered a number of aspects of the legal protection of our forests, which represent well of general interest and a general useful natural well-being. The subject itself can be talked about with several aspects, because the proposed changes and additions start with the termological changes, the definition of new concepts, the precision and simplification of certain procedures, and the identification of essential elements in the ecological sense. The law improves the framework for nature conservation through monitoring the development of forests, their protection, the way of cutting, which, unfortunately, has been very often uncontrollable. Now the law foresees more rigorous control and cutting and transporting wood, by shortening the procedural life of a tree and taking care of it from planting to self-using, whether in the form of heat or wood processing. Marking shall be introduced by means of a valid stamp and the recording of the logging trees for which the escort is issued, as well as the applicable competences, as well as the return of the competence of the forest inspection over the control of the traffic of wood and the tightening of the criminal policy. Therefore, in order to reduce the scope of the illegal cutting, the law reintroduces the obligation of the documentation accompanying the goods in transport, which was abolished by the Law on the Forests in 2010, and, apparently, has had a bad effect in terms of removing the monitoring mechanism of the origin of wood in transport. This measure aims to reduce the illegal deforestation of forests as a protection of natural resources in the interests of the community because of its general useful functions. In particular, I consider the amendments to these provisions that created the problem or made practical application impossible, such as the definition of the forest. Now the forest has been defined as an area surrounded by forest trees with a minimum surface of five acres with a minimum land coverage of 30% crown trees. In this way, it expands and precisely defines the minimum surface area that can bear the name of the forest. This achieves a valid coverage of areas that can be considered forests and enables them to be more fully protected. The state plans a serious attitude towards forest protection confirms new provisions concerning the annual forest management plan, the medium-term forest protection plan. According to some estimates, the world disappears between 13 million and 16 million hectares of forest annually, and in Serbia, as many as 12,000 cc's of wood are illegally cut annually. I believe that the proposed legal solutions will affect better forest use control. This law provides for a system of uniform forest management by the Republic, then a unique system of forest planning and management, protecting and improving the environment and protecting the promotion of the plant and animal world, harmonising different needs and functions in the same space. This legal provision arises from the Constitutional Court's decision to move, with separate protection, into a controlled united, equal for all under the same treatment and uniform procedures under the control of the Ministry and the public undertaking "Serbishum". This public company is under a legal obligation to bring its work into line within six months with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. In a series of significant changes and additions to the Law on Forests, it is also that several dozen hectares of forest will be solved which, after the entry into force of the Public Property Act, remain in state property without users and adequate protection. It is proposed that the user determines the Government on a proposal from the Ministry, and that the rights to use the protection and protection of forests shall be governed by the legal person referred to in Article 70. The forest law that the Ministry has decreed. In particular, I would refer to part of the proposed changes and additions relating to the protection of forests which are exposed to various forms of devastation from illegal cutting to various forms of biological and abiotic factors. These amendments and additions to the law correct this gap in terms of precisely planned changes and taking measures to protect forests and forest land. No matter who owns the forest, given their importance as well as the general interest, the interest of the state is to protect all forests, improves in accordance with the rules of the profession in professional and advisory support. These professional bodies can build fire protection plans in the forests of the owners of the natural person, monitor the effects of biological and abiotic factors on the health status of the forest. The report is one of the ways in which forest health is monitored, and whose user is obliged to deliver it to the competent authority by 15 January of the current year for the previous one in the event of a major threat without delay. According to a new legal solution, the ministry will trust the scientific and research area in the area of forestry in accordance with the regulations governing the health of plants, in the protection of forests from plant diseases and pests. In this way all measures will be taken with respect to the profession and science. Unlike the regular monitoring of forest conditions where a response and recovery can be made in time, significant biological balance and damage to forest eco-systems can result from natural disasters. In the past year, to remind, large floods and a large number of slides on forest land and ice-breaking land during last winter in forests and Serbia's forest eco system have caused huge damage, whether state or private. In eastern Serbia alone, about a million and a half metres of cubic trees were partially damaged or destroyed on an area of 40,000 hectares that required an emergency response to resuscitate these damages. Unfortunately, while looking at the damages, it has been observed that the existing legal solution is not adequate and that budgets cannot be allocated for the resolution of such forest damages. This perceived problem in the field with new legal solutions is being corrected. On the other hand, such situations are foreseen to eliminate the payment of forest charges for users and owners as well as where the area on which the recovery is carried out in accordance with the recovery plan, when it is necessary to cut and extract a damaged tree to prevent the spread of plant diseases and pests. So far, although damaged by elemental accidents, the owners for the urchin to extract damaged trees had to pay 5% of the tree's market value as a compensation for that cut tree. Many owners did not even make demands, since they had no profit from it. The proposed solution therefore constitutes a positive step in this case for owners and users to be exempt from the obligations of this fee. A new provision is also proposed when it comes to Chetinarians used for New Year's and Other Holidays, as due to irregular cutting of peaks and springs in forests, high pressure is being put on the four-year forests and their destruction. It is prescribed that trees can be used for this purpose from the cleaning and purification that certainly remove forests, as well as the planted tree in the nursery or below the power lines where it is otherwise impossible to cultivate forests, if they can be used with the bus and later planted, i.e. Returned nature, and these trees in transport must have an emissary and be stamped. Another good legal solution is the obligation of forest users to bring a plan to protect the forest from fire for a period of 10 years. Unlike natural disasters that cannot be controlled, fires can be prevented. The programme for the development of forestry in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is seen integratedly and brought by the government as a strategic document for a period of 10 years. I would take the opportunity to draw attention as someone coming from Vojvodina to the state of the forest in Vojvodina that has already been mentioned and where the percentage of the noise is only 7% and is projected at 14% by 2016. Without noise, land devastation is due to the fact that the planning of shale has multiple effects, as it will prevent soil erosion and increase yields, and in addition to increasing forest treasure, it will improve health and environmental conditions of life. It is far more important to focus attention on creating windy and agricultural belts, for which we simply cry out. These belts should be created along the road corridors, canals and roads of low importance, where there is quite enough room for planting. In doing so, it is important to make sure that no old mistakes are made, and that only local species must be used for planting. The role of the field of seat belts is to prevent the removal of layers of land from the field as well as to create a microclimate as much as we already have major problems here with strengthening extreme climate conditions. In the zone of these belts, the surface would enjoy a better micro-climate image. Oak Lužnjak, Step oak, Močvarni clear, lipa, these are the species for which planting should be pawned. The problem is that the decomposing producers turn to other species, usually exotic ones, while others are directed at decorative species. It is known that every year, with the Duke's hurricanes, it disappears 2.5 cm away from a wind-bending country and that Vojvodina's region with the smallest degree of deforestation in Europe, as I have already mentioned, is only 7% of its surface. Unfortunately, by shaming the Duke so far, it has been symbolic. That is why I would especially like to encourage and support new legislative solutions towards which, in line with the development programme, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and local self-government will also provide funds for these protection belts through the steps of raising the degree of noise, improving the state of forest plantings and developing development plans in forestry. In general, these amendments to the Forest Act should contribute to a more comprehensive and efficient protection of forest ecosystems that are a huge natural resource, but it is an important economic potential. Wood is an industrial raw material and a source of significant income for both the economy and the state. Therefore, the control of the use of wood, on the one hand, and the sustainable development of forests and forest ecosystems, on the other hand, is a serious and lasting task. As this law implements the policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and provides for more functional, more efficient and rational forest management in the Republic of Serbia, we Socialists in the day of voting will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37107	The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37108	I thank the chairman. A lot of previous colleagues, which from the ruling coalition, which the opposition said, spoke about this Law, but I will repeat a lot, because only one part of the law is changing and that is why we are talking about amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. I almost told you about game and hunting, but we'll have that in a few months, I hope. After six years, about, at the same time, it was brought in, so the same problems are from chance. I'm not surprised that we have to make changes and additions, because it's clear that those who at the time led the executive power and decided in parliament missed a lot of things, which I say again, is not surprising, and the state is in transition, so we're changing some things, but I hope we're going to be in this area... I had a chance, two weeks ago, to spend some time in Finland. I hope that very soon, at least systematically, we'll settle up the way Finland is. It seems to me that, not to say, the number one state in Europe, but one that best uses and best protects its forest ecosystem and has the biggest experts in the area. I know some of the government and the State Department are working with Finnish experts, but we'd better apply those methods. This law, when we change and supplement it, will be much better when we adopt it, than before, currently in force, but still it's not that level, there's still a few things we should do. What I'm saying is that law enforcement itself is more important and the situation itself on the ground, because when we adopt laws here, different, I'm not just talking about this, and then what we do is, in fact, someone who's obliged to apply and work in the field avoids applying it. Now, first, I'm going to cross one piece like this, I'm going to try as soon as I can, which is changing in the law, and I'm going to praise that part of the law, but don't expect, gentlemen of the ministry, that I'm going to commend everything. As far as the law is concerned, I will, but as for the other one that I spoke about later implementation, I'm going to have to say a few things about what is the general problem of the government and about the reform of our society as a whole, and that has to be attached to this sector, of course. So what was wrong and how was proposed by this law to change. First, it's already mentioned here that we are, and that's what our citizens have been most able to see these days, witnesses to extreme climate events, floods, droughts, slides, ice-breakings, things have been going on, even in the last two years, fires, everything I've said, that's happened to us, just in the last two years. They caused really unremembered damage to us and to the forest ecosystems. In the autumn of 2014, only from the effects of icy and ice-cold in eastern Serbia, which is usually the forest's richest, it seems to me, in our country, that these climate events have led to the destruction of about 1.5 million cc's of wood, as on the surface of more than 40,000 hectares, which required an urgent reaction to the recovery of these areas and to prevent further damages that could occur in conditions of already disrupted instability of these forest ecosystems. However, so far, rigid legal solutions have not adequately recognised the need to act in emergency situations. What's more, they stopped us or prevented you from reacting properly. For example, the deadline for the adoption of performance plans, which is a legal prerequisite for the implementation of works in the forest, without exception, in the applicable law of 31 October running for the following year. This means that all those damages that occur after October 31st cannot be resolved in the following year. All that happens to us by October 31st, that the law remains, that we don't change this, okay, next year we can resuscitate, but if something happens on November 1st, we can no longer resuscitate, but we have to wait 2017 to adopt whatever it takes to perform the work in the woods. This legislative proposal resolved this in a way that a project of performance, developed on the basis of a recovery plan and a project for the realization of random yields, is brought all year round. Which means we can react immediately. In this regard, too, the process of resuscitating forests damaged by different factors is prescribed. The concept of a recovery plan is introduced, as a mandatory plan document, which, in emergency situations, takes place in the woods, after some natural disasters, replaces the basic, or forest management programmes, as regular forest management planning documents, whose changes and additions take a long time, and due to their prescribed content. When emergency situations occur in the forest caused by fire, flood, gliding, icy fractures, etc., it is very important that, as soon as possible, access to the removal of adverse effects and the recovery of surfaces, in order to reduce direct damage to the forest in the form of tree collapse, degradation of forest land, as well as indirect damage to the general useful forest functions. These changes also prescribe who makes and adopts a recovery plan, the plan contained, the deadline in which it is brought, three months after the end of the harmful fact. As a significant point, I also point out that an exemption is introduced from the obligation to pay compensation for cut wood from areas on which damage is being recovered and in accordance with the recovery plan. That wasn't the case until now. This is an important provision because there is a problem with the recovery of forests of owners, natural persons, private people, our people who are owners of certain forests, which are damaged by ice fractures, fires and the like, and where it is necessary to cut the damaged trees, get them out of the woods, to prevent the accumulation of plant diseases and pests. However, the owners do not want to apply for a copy of these cutting trees, as it immediately obliges them to pay for the cut-off tree, which is 5% of the wood market value on the spot. So, there's damage, he's not guilty of damage, he has to take that tree out of his forest, it's useful to take it out, but he has to pay the tax first and of course people don't sign up for it. It's a good thing we're changing it now with this law. In order to remove this problem, we are now seeking to protect the forest from disease, pests, both private and state, and from the collapse of wood, thereby and direct economic loss and degradation of the environment, we propose to exempt from the obligation to pay this compensation for damaged forests, whose recovery is carried out on the basis of the recovery plan set out in Article 16. Forest law. This would remove this problem and free the resources needed by users and owners for the recovery of damaged areas. The lack of law and certain procedures for determining the users, hence the guardian of the state forest, the minister spoke of, which, by the disappearance of certain entities of social enterprises through the privatisation of agricultural cooperatives, left us without users and led us to tens of thousands of hectares of state forests without any protection being exposed to theft and devastation. Therefore, the amendments to the laws suggest that forests in a state property which are not defined by the user and for forests in the state property whose user does not meet the conditions laid down by this law, the user shall designate the Government on a proposal from the Ministry and, until the process is completed, the transfer and allocation of the rights of users, the protection and protection of forests shall be governed by the legal person referred to in Article 70. The forest law, appointed by the ministry. Recognizing the needs of the social community for the construction of pipelines, roads, PTTs and power lines and similar works, if this does not endanger priority forest functions, it is also proposed to amend the law in a way that, with the agreement of the ministry, clean cutting can be carried out and that it does not represent a change of purpose, and therefore does not pay compensation for deforestation. This provides a legal process that enables the infrastructure development of the Republic of Serbia. Significant changes have been proposed in the field of wood transport, which creates assumptions that the chaotic situation in this area is being put under control. In fact, through multiple studies, it has been observed that the extent of unregistered cuts or that I say thefts from year to year permanently increases and that it exceeds the volume of registered cuts. We heard from a colleague that Serbia is in the middle of a European scale in the scope of illegal forest cutting. It's everywhere, but it doesn't have to satisfy us, we need to go to the highest standard Austria and Finland have, and why not, because it's all about our citizens and ourselves. I'm going to say it one more time, and there's a lot of talk about state property, state forest, etc., just to remind all my colleagues that the state is made up of territory and people. It's not something that belongs to the company, etc. than all of us and all of us together have to take care of it. In addition to avoiding payment to the Republic of Serbia's budget, the door has been opened to recapture both private and state-owned forests. In this respect, changes in the return of the shipment and the escort as special documents which must be accompanied by wood in transport, as well as the return of jurisdiction to the forest inspection of wood control are proposed. A number of changes are also proposed in terms of tightening the criminal policy for illegal activities. In particular, the purpose and rationality of the planning system are to make certain adjustments, given that a significant volume of funds has been spent in the previous period and that the planning system has not been established. Changes have been proposed and a plan unit is introduced a forest area which significantly improves the functionality and rationality of the system. In fact, the existing 32 forest areas are grouped into seven forest areas. I have to say that this way, when we implement, I know that there are some who say that this may not be a good solution, but this is a great way, and when we do this, we will save at least 500 million dinars for the next few years, and we will get the same quality. So it's not some 32 documents, it's eight documents that actually give us the same input for what the state needs. For the purpose of more adequate treatment and improvement of the status protection of forests, it shall in an unequivocal manner be defined as an official person with clearly defined obligations and powers. The amendments to the law remove the shortcomings of existing standards which determine the users of state-owned forests that have been neglected by the decades-long existence and interests of local self-government that, in certain cases, forests in state-owned property are owned by public enterprises whose founder is a unit of local self-government and not only of republican or regional, public enterprises. The minister spoke about the Cyprus "Green" case in Belgrade, which is de facto in such a situation. Changes are allowed for public undertakings whose founder of units of local self-government which have managed state forests until the laws are passed, to manage those forests in the future, provided that they meet the conditions laid down by the Law on Forests and specific regulations. It is similar for certain institutions, such as The Faculty of Forests from Belgrade, which has owned state forests since the time of Obrenovic, and there is no law on forests. Now that injustice has been removed. Also, changes to a large number of provisions concerning promotions have been proposed in a professional way that have created problems or made practical applications impossible, such as The definition of forest provisions concerning the adoption of the annual forest management plan, the medium-term forest protection plan, the time of deforestation, etc. has been updated. It's about the law and they're really good and they're well-sighted. It will become more effective when this law is applied, but who should apply it? We heard most of it from public enterprises "Vojvodinasum" and "Serbishum". We have a situation, this is a report, the minister remembers, she was an MP with us, that the state auditor sends us reports on the work of public enterprises when he does the audit. This is a revision that was carried out at the Public Enterprise "Serbishum". If I only read on the 10th page the things that were seen by the auditors, they would not be particularly commendable to those who should enforce this law. We often talk in the Assembly about "Serbiagas", EPS, "The Railways", etc., but rarely when we mention the Public Enterprise "Serbishum". The public company "Serbishum" is not doing well. The Prime Minister said that on several occasions, and he even experienced that the previous JP leadership was denying him in the media that they were not the exact figures he was talking about, and they were correct. They're still true. Now, according to my information, the Serbs are doing something better, but it's still not what would be needed. According to some studies, and yet also in the practice of Western countries, it is organised differently when we have, for example, a case like ours, that we have several organisational units or land units, as it is called, the Directorate One is necessary. More studies say that it is necessary at a level of 1% of employees compared to the number of employees in these holdings. With us, this figure is huge compared to that 1%, and as far as it's concerned, I repeat it in some organized countries like Austria or Finland. According to this report, the only holdings that were designated as positive examples were the "Rasina" Kruševac Forest Mastership and the Golia Forest Mastership Ivanica. Since these holdings, which the auditor has apostrophyd in his report, have fully fulfilled their obligations in terms of forest use compensation. Everyone else isn't until that moment. I'm not saying that this is the situation right now, but the auditor confirmed that this was the case in 2012 and 2013. You mentioned the Fund, I have to say one more thing, you need to know that forest use fees are paid and private forest owners are rarely in the greater range of public forest management companies. But, the privilege of a subsidy from forestry, from this Fund, which is financed from the revenue generated from the compensation from private and state-owned forests, of course, have public enterprises. Almost 100% when deployed. Then we don't have the result we're supposed to have in the end. So, they're privileged on subsidies as a public enterprise, and I still don't have a result that we could be happy about as a state. Since the Public Enterprise of the "Serbishum" has been organised in a three-step manner, and at the top of the Public Enterprise Directorate, and below the forest owners, it is necessary to make such a system of work which will contribute to all the forest management within the system in line with the potential and achieve approximately the same business results. In other words, we need to reform the JP "Serbishum". We have a law on public enterprises that we've brought in and they're urgently required to fit into the work of that law. There is still no such thing as happening, and as a system, it seems to me that they are quite rigid and that they are working very hard to avoid these necessary reforms. Reforms must happen, it is the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, and the "Serbian" must also be implemented reforms, as well as in the Railways, the "EPS", the "Serbian" and all other businesses. In order for, gentlemen, this good job that you've done with the bill of amendments and the addition of the law to live in the right way, not to repeat myself, some of my colleagues are going to be talking about it more about windscreens and everything that's going on in Vojvodina, it's not enough just for this law, we probably have to change the Agricultural Land Act and some other laws, but in order for all of this to live, we have to go to the real reforms of all those public enterprises, primarily "Serbian State", and also "Vojvodinasum", which are the owners of our forests. Only then will we have the right result and what the citizens of Serbia expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37109	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37110	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. For the sake of truth, I want to say that both the public and MPs know that this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests and that this law does not deal with the organisation of public enterprises, the organisation of their work. Therefore, public companies are engaged in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we, with public enterprises, have co-operation in the field of good governance and the use of forest potentials, i.e. the forest. When it comes to the JP "Serbishum", I would like to say that the report is an audit report, which you have shown, a report relating to the previous year, that the public company "Serbishum" has been significantly reorganised, that it is doing well and that it is achieving excellent results. The other day, the director sent me information that the profits were made in the first nine months of this company 378 million dinars. The comparisons, in the past year, in the same period, were less than one million dinars. We can clearly conclude ourselves that this company has done extremely well in the previous period and that it has achieved an extremely large one. I hope that this pace will be maintained and continued and that we will finally have reason to say that a good trend has been established when it comes to the business of JP "Serbishum" and that this natural resource is used in the right way, that both businesses and the state of Serbia are making significant profits based on the use of its natural resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37111	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37112	I was hoping you wouldn't say this, and I was expecting, I knew about this 350 million dinar information. The previous leadership also spoke, when the Prime Minister spoke of working with a minus, working with a plus, and finally the auditor found that they were not working with a plus, but with a minus. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Yeah, thanks, I wish that's exactly what you're saying, but release the V.D. report. Director. He'll do every job, and the board of directors and the audit board, it's not controversial. The law is, I told you, good, but those who execute it should carry it out in the right way. What I was saying was well-intentioned and do not defend the director of "Serbishum", v.d. The director of the "Serbishum" because the competition has not yet been completed, nor has anyone else, and it is not finished because you know for yourself how long it took them to adopt the statute and comply with the Law on Public Enterprises. It's not the topic we're talking about here, but we'll see business at the end of the year. The fact that someone's doing business with 350 now, and it's not an increased price of wood, it's not a reduced cost, so let's see if it's true. But you yourself know that the price of the basic product has not been increased, that there are no reduced costs and then it's a little odd that they're doing so now. That means they've done a lot of bad work before, because if they're doing well along these lines now, then they've done a lot, a lot more wrong before. It means that the very changes in leadership can contribute and come to work positively. I don't want to suspect that the number is controversial, I hope it's true, but don't let it turn out at the end of the year that it's not everything when all the controls are done. It was a well-intentioned thing I said. There must be a reform of these companies in order to achieve what this law provides.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37113	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has a minister, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37114	So the MP doesn't get the impression that I think his criticism wasn't well-intentioned. On the contrary, I am convinced that your criticism is well-intentioned, that your suggestion is well-intentioned, since you have truly praised everything we have suggested in the amendments and additions to this law. I didn't want to defend either the director, or the management, or anyone organized by JP "Serbishum", I just wanted to point out one thing, which I believe is correct and I believe will be confirmed by both the audit institution and the supervisory board, with the desire to say that things are moving in Serbia, that we really want to change and we want to make everything we can do more efficient, better and better. That's why I pointed out this information, that it would mean simply believing what we are doing, not because of the director, not because of the leadership, but because of all those people who are employed in the "Serbishum". We want them to believe that their data is accurate, to give them support to work even more, to work even better and to implement these legal provisions on the ground. I believe, if we continue this way, that we will all succeed together, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37115	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37116	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, we have an extremely important law for the Socialists, regardless of what we are talking about in one of the branches of agriculture, because forestry is considered one of the very important development branches of the economy itself. Forests as a natural resource and good of general interest have always been a factor in the development of a single country. I would quote you, the Minister, that the state of the forest is both a mirror and a cultural and historical development of a country. The very need for sustainable use, permanent existence and relatively slow improvement of the forest fund requires a whole new concept of forest management. We must also look at the forests from an ecological aspect, but also from an economic point of view. For us, the unquestionable role of the state and the task of the state is in the very management, development and protection of this good. The amendments and additions to the laws that are on the agenda today are in line with this new concept, and above all, we are considering them today because of the need to comply with the Law on Public Property, with the Law on Public Enterprises, then by filling some legal gaps, observed problems in the practical application of the law, but also because of the Constitutional Court's decision. When we talk about the management of this resource and the provision that may have caused the controversy in parliament, as regards forest management at the level of the Republic, the Constitutional Court has declared Article 18(1) of the Law establishing the competence of the AP Vojvodina, which refers to the forests. More specifically, the Constitutional Court abolished a provision under which the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, can regulate forestry in its territory and ensure that public interest is achieved in this area. The Socialists agree with the state concept towards which forests are managed at the level of the Republic, and thus the forests of the AP Vojvodina, in that they cannot be excluded from this integrated strategic governance. The remaining two points, in fact, the remaining two positions of this member are still valid, and they allow the functioning of a public enterprise in the province, which are the “Vojvodinasum” and those at the same time as a public enterprise and manages forests and performs inspection tasks, except for inspection controls at border crossings. The changes and additions my colleagues were talking about are really good. I would refer to some of the provisions, the definition of the forest has been complemented, in fact, more precisely defining the area of the land has grown in forest trees, which now implies at least five acres, i.e. with a 30% cross-section covered. The law provides for the establishment of forest areas, earlier forest areas which were 27 actually to be organised in seven forest areas as the largest spatially planed forest land inland with defined forest areas and national parks that enter these areas and represent, for example, double protection when it comes to natural goods. This regional organisation will also contribute to rationalising the process of adoption of planning documents. Seven forest development plans will now be adopted instead of 27, thus reducing the budget for drawing up these planning documents. In addition to these changes and with the new National Parks Act, which we adopted ten days ago, coordinated management is ensured and the level of protection of these protected areas is increasing. Foresting as a branch of agriculture requires planning, which we may be able to characterise as long-term, but it implies raising, development, bossing, growing and exploiting, and for 10 years as a period of planning, is for the lifetime of a forest really moment. A forest life, or our life, rather than forest life, lasts very briefly. Forest biocenosis and the sustainability of the forest ecosystem require serious strategic planning. What I would particularly point out is a positive abolition, which was also said by an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, is the elimination of 5% of the estimated value, which as a cost had a physical face so far in cases of obligation of sanitary damage. When it comes to changes and additions related to forest management, more precisely regulated only land management, whether they are forests owned by state property or forest owners, i.e. users. What we want to commend when it comes to cultivation, i.e. the return of the documents, the more precisely defined performance of the donations themselves and the return of the documents and escorts that were abolished in 2010. In the case of the use itself, or in the law of the use of forests, it actually cuts, the traffic of cut wood, the new member of 35, regulates the traffic of cut wood, or any cutting of forest trees is prohibited anywhere without stamping or escorting. This member, we believe, will affect the reduction of illegal cutting and illegal traffic of forest buildings. I would also welcome the Ministry's will to provide for a ban on cutting trees and parts of trees on the eve of New Year's and other holidays, because for years we've been fighting back with the damages that are really big, tens of thousands of trees, the young man most often gets hurt before New Year's holidays, these are, of course, fours, but let's not forget that on the eve of our Christmas, he gets hurt. When funding sources are at stake, newspapers in financing the share of general interest in forestry can be financed from the budget of local self-government. In this regard, in article 42, amending and supplementing the law, in addition to setting out measures for the development programme for which funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are provided, the AP also regulates funding by local self-government. This article extends the number of measures to be financed from the budget, and I am particularly emphasising a new measure, which is the resolution of forest areas damaged by the fact of natural disasters, slides, fires, ice-breaking trees, etc., which so far has not been possible by means of budgets to remedy these damages. In the end, I would refer to some of the facts that you have presented, which is, above all, the degree of noise of the Republic of Serbia. You said that the degree of noise, which is the exact data, is 29%, and the fact is that the optimal level is the same according to the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, 41.4%, where the structure of our forests is dominated by the issuing forests, and this suggests that the state of the forest is unsatisfactory. And why not? Whenever the state and society go through difficult times, the first thing that gets hurt, the woods get hurt. For the formation and development of forest phytocenosis, it takes decades, and by neglect and unplanned use and management of these forests, some surfaces disappear for the day. According to this resource and state and society must be treated and more responsible, because forests are the source and the trees as raw materials, the place where our biodiversity is preserved, the space that we use for recreation, but also the resource that has many economic, ecological and social benefits. Finally, as my colleague Gordana Komic said, we will support this bill, and indeed, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I congratulate you on the quality of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37117	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stevanović. He's not here. National MP Jovana Jovanovic. He's not here. National MP Gordana Komic. He's not here. MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37118	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us one, you might say, good law. Good, very correct law. It is, above all, the reason for its adoption is, among other things, to adapt to certain changes to other regulations, which are part of the reform of the overall society on the one hand, and on the other hand, it has been seen that the mistakes made in 2010, when the Law on Forests was passed, and this law needs much to be corrected. The basic error in 2010, which was deliberately or intentionally, knowingly or unconsciously made, is that the Law on Forests has excluded the control of the traffic of wood cut into forests. This control is now restored to this law, and it implies that both the dispatches in some way and the greater powers of inspection, the state is in some way defending itself against the robbery and devastation of forests, which have occurred significantly in our country in previous years. Also, what is significant is that the Constitutional Court has declared by an incompetent provision of the AP Vojvodina when it comes to the issue of forest management, at least in the part when it comes to planning documents. All that conditioned the reason was to pass a law like this. It is especially important now to point out when we are talking about Vojvodina and how it managed or how it happened in 2003, when it was made "Vojvodinashum". Vojvodina, which has 6.7% of forests that do not have forests, but therefore has a public enterprise in the Vojvodina. They succeeded in those 10 years at least, according to the State Auditing Institution's report, to reduce the value of the forest in Vojvodina. They responded to the State Auditing Institution's report that it was not a reduced value of the forest, but that the value that was then in 2003, 5.8 billion, today is 6.6 billion, and that this is an increased value, but the dinar and now when we look at what it was in 2003 and how much it was worth 5.7 million, and how much today it's worth 6.6 million, it's clear that it's significantly reduced the value of the forest in Vojvodina. Vojvodina has significant problems when it comes to forest tracking, especially when it comes to wind protection belts and snow protection belts that are not available at all. As the world does, what is the situation in the world, we can see examples of China having the same problem with, not the same but similar when it comes to winds because they have sandstorms that are a significant problem in the north of China, Beijing. To defend against these sandstorms, they simply made a decision in 2003 and said, we will plant several hundred billion trees from 2003 to 2050 and build a green wall along the famous silk road in China, in the Goba deserts, make a green wall that will contain, believe in itself, a billion and 300 million trees only in the desert, and a few hundred billion on the perimeter and the rest. The total length of the woodwood, which will be damed by storm and sand winds, will be several hundred kilometers. People started to work and they did, and already have a significant improvement because the number of sandstorms has been significantly reduced, and the health and social status of that population in the north of China has been significantly improved. Africa does something similar, and they do a green wall that stretches into 11 countries of Africa, a dam toward the Sahara, a sandstorm that is 7765 kilometers wide and 15 kilometers wide, and it is 77,765 kilometers long. Imagine how the world defends itself, and they managed to reduce and improve the health situation in Africa and in that part, and we came into a situation where we don't have in Vojvodina windscreens and only when winter comes and when all the garbage starts and when people get stuck on the roads and when we see, then there's panic and the problem of how we're gonna get these people out and get them out, and then what happens after that happens. As it's standard for us, yes, everyone promises, now we're going to do it, someone in charge, someone incompetent, now we're going to do it and there's the story. Is it a competent province, whether it's a competent local self-government, whether it's a competent state, who's going to, what, what needs to be planted, where it needs to be planted. Comes, then of course summer and then don't talk about it now. We'll talk about it when winter comes, and when winter comes, a long-time conversationary, then the story starts again, well, this winter won't be so scary, there'll probably be treasure, so there won't be any junk, so there's no public procurement done, so we'll transfer it to some next year and years have passed, and Vojvodina has run out of wind protection belts that someone made 100 years ago. On the other hand, we don't have any wind protection belts within the soil, we don't have a working and then the winds are washing humus from the soil and not just humus, but calcium, sodium, potassium, all the minerals and carry it to the canals, and on the other hand we have another problem, which is that the canals are clogged, so we can't even water. How much it's all about and how expensive it is for that non-organized state that can't make priorities and protect what's important to her right now, but it's giving ordinary money to other things. In this law, what is significant is that a single legal gap is corrected, when agricultural cooperatives have disappeared and social enterprises have disappeared, the user and guardian of a particular forest have been lost. This law corrects it because it will determine and protect the state property that has been arched and robbed for years and will determine the user and the guardian by either the government or the ministry for some transitional period. This is certainly very good, and this should be welcomed and fits into the overall reform of society, in the overall concern of how to protect the state property that was during the previous period, i.e. to remind itself of the refugee straw. What's more important to say in this whole story at the end, is that this law in any case improves on the one hand, the professional part, and when it comes to rationalisation, total forest management, and it will make one contribution to that economic development, society at all, and on the other hand, it will, in any case, contribute to the environmental protection and environmental values that Serbia has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37119	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37120	I thank the chairman. I would like to begin by commending the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, headed by Minister Bogosavljevic – Boskovic and having fulfilled the promise she made recently when she was in the Assembly, when she told us that this amendment of the law, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, would be found before the MPs. Such a system approach and responsible state management to the Ministry of Agriculture, the SPS parliamentary group will support. We agree that forests represent a significant ecological, economic and social potential for Serbia. It is also defined by law that forests are well, of general interest that must be used in a sustainable way, by preserving and increasing their value, usefulness, ensuring sustainability and protection and continuously increasing growth and contribution. To achieve this, it is necessary to remove the biggest problems of the forest, which are recorded, not only in Serbia, but in the world. The biggest challenges we face are insufficient noise, low level of habitat use, global drying process, fires, illegal cutting, forest conversion into building land. The causes of these problems in Serbia are different, between 2011 and 2013, and a dramatic increase in damage caused by elemental disasters, human behaviour, insect damage and droughts has been recorded. The damage caused by natural disasters has increased by over 60% compared to 2012 and reached maximum levels over the last 10 years. The ice wave that hit all of eastern Serbia in the fall of 2014, caused the appearance of large ice-cold, ice-cold and snow-cold and was then damaged, or destroyed, as we could hear today 1.5 million cubic trees on the surface of 40,000 hectares that we need to resuscitate. The damage caused by insects is also the largest in the last 10 years and is larger five times compared to 2012. Another major problem is the drying of forests, rising temperatures and increasing rainfall, and are the main causes of forest drying. Since 2012, the occurrence of drying has been reported mainly of the Cetina forests, which has been recorded at more than 20,000 hectares and one of the most significant forms of damage are forest fires, they periodically destroy larger forest areas. During 2013, 7,400 cubic metres of wood was burned. Statistics alarmingly warn that in more than 95% of cases, man is the cause of forest fires, and sometimes neglect is usually caused by fire. It's clear that we can't affect weather disasters, conditions, droughts and the amount of rainfall, but that's why we can affect the human factor. Also, we must make sure that when the problem arises, the sooner we implement the recovery measures. The proposed amendments to the Forest Law aim to overcome these and other problems that we face. It is in Article 9 that the existing Article 16. The forest law that prescribes the process of resuscitation of forests. The concept of a recovery plan is introduced as a mandatory plan document which, in emergency situations, takes place in the woods, after some natural disasters, replaces the basics, i.e. the forest management programme, as regular forest management planning documents, whose changes and additions are required for a long time due to their prescribed content. This article prescribes who builds and adopts a recovery plan, contained in the plan, then a deadline in which another is adopted. A legal framework and procedures for action in the event of natural disasters are established, given that in recent accidents, existing legal solutions do not allow adequate responses, presupposes the concept of a natural disaster and enables adequate response and funding, the removal of consequences in the case of major natural disasters, and the release of the obligation to pay forest use compensation is proposed, because in such situations, it is not possible to talk about the use of forests. Although the existing law prescribes the declaration of elemental disasters, it has most often not been declared, for various reasons, despite the extent of the damage, resulting in a situation in which damages in forest ecosystems have not been resolved for many years. In order to overcome this problem, Article 45 replaces the concept of a natural disaster, and a new attitude adds the definition and authority of the minister to declare a natural disaster. This provides for a full mechanism, as set out in Article 45, which is that in the case of natural disasters, large scales and damages in forests, the ministry can impose measures to protect and resuscitate forests and provide financial resources to implement these measures, i.e. to ensure timely action to address the consequences of natural disasters which have been very frequent in the past few years and cause major damage in forests. It is precisely these measures that are extremely important, and it has recognised the ministry headed by you ministers, because Serbia belongs to the medium forested countries. According to the 2009 national forest inventory, the Republic of Serbia is 29.1 from the total area of its territory and is under the forest. Forestivity relative to the global aspect, close to the world, which is about 30% and is significantly lower than Europe, which reaches 46%. The total area of the forest in Serbia is 2,252,000 hectares, of which 1,194,000 hectares or 53% are state-owned, and private property has 1,058.387 hectares or 47%. Of all state forests, about 48% have a priority protection function, while the remaining forests have a priority production function. The management of forest resources that is overly focused on economic gain, while ignoring the preservation of the structure and the process of forest habitats, is not good. I would take the opportunity to appeal this way to the necessity of raising the ecological awareness, as well as the need for adequate shaming. The professional public believes that in Serbia, about 9,000 hectares should be forested annually, or about 500 hectares in each district. This would cost, between 12m and 15m euros a year, which is currently an unattainable sum, making a little more than a fifth of the estimated surfaces in the year. When it comes to Vojvodina, the situation is much more complicated. The population of Vojvodina is only 6.37%, the municipality where I live and where I come from, the municipality of Vrbas has 0.1% of the current data, and to achieve a minimum, the ecological minimum is 14%. It is necessary to raise more than 170,000 hectares of new forests and protection plantations. The rise of new forests in Vojvodina is in the interest of all, primarily users and the water industry, agriculture and traffic sectors. For raising, for example, a hectare of forest must provide 365 million dinars, primarily for seedlings and for care and protection. Although these funds are significant, special attention must be paid to this problem. We can't make excuses. We can't make solutions. The first step towards that, of course, is the expansion of the ecological consciousness. I would also like to commend the work of the public enterprise of the Vojvodina Forest, which is the only company in the work of forestry from these areas. It has a European forest management certificate, which puts it among the best forest enterprises in the region. This is proof that products originating in forests, companies formed by controlled use of forests and that forest management and use are carried out in accordance with strict international standards, providing ecological, economic and social functions of forests. It is the task of all of us to preserve and improve the quality of the environment through the economic and reasonable use of our country's natural potential. Only in this way can we meet the needs of the present generation without jeopardizing the needs of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37122	The Honorable chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, is ahead of us with a law that really needs to be applied as it says. The objectives of this law are multiple, first of all, I mean the preservation of the forest and besides, it is its use. We know that large financial resources can be achieved through proper and rational and planned use of forests. It is good that this law will form eight forest areas, six plus two provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo. I would not tell this opportunity about the revenues that we can make with the urea and the plank or the plank of the forest. I would like to remind once again that Serbia has a forest coverage of around 29.1%, which can be said to be entering that average world average. It is far lower than European, and per capita it is 0.3 hectares. It's less than the surrounding country, but I said this on purpose, and I've repeated it as my colleagues, we can't look at it that way. Covering forests in the Alps, Austria and Switzerland is not the same as in the Netherlands. So, we have one territory of extremely good and quality, Vojvodina, on the other hand, we have southern and eastern Serbia which is, of course, more covered and then we make one average. I think if we climb two to three more, possibly five percent, that would be great for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. What impressed me, reading this law, is forest inspection and escorts, or emissaries. I come from Capca, near where Mount Cer is. I'm only telling one practical story and stealing woods, and when we have a forest theft, like a passive hunter, there's a poacher. Why am I saying this? Bad privatisations that occurred in the previous period and the 2010 law have led to a huge number of hectares or forests, free to say no one's country or anyone's forest. In those woods are the biggest problems. Another parallel. When someone goes to poaching, or stealing woods, they certainly don't go as relaxed or as they go to work. This is done on bad weather conditions, most often these are the times when rains and the beginning of winter, when we enter a cold period or when the forest is left out and when we have another agricultural growth. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because only in September did we have more unsavoury events. That's exactly where that forest theft took place, and in September there was one fatal outcome, only in September of the month. So there are more cases in the Sabac municipality every year that I don't talk in the woods as much as there is, plus it's when that tree is hotly used in vehicles that aren't fit for that kind of thing. The forest inspection here in the coming period must take a key role, escorts and severances and control of such a tree. The other thing is that last year we had a major elemental accident and those in May and those during the winter days when the whole south of Serbia, eastern Serbia was bound with ice because we had huge damage. It's in the winter period. We have fires in the summer period. We have to change our own consciousness and control here, that is, the preservation of the forest. You know fires can't happen on their own. It takes some factor, some hand to make something like that happen. This law stipulates that if such a recovery occurs, a tree is hatched or by fire that the owner, or a natural person, does not have to charge certain taxes in order for that tree to be cut down. What I was going to say was, and I would ask that as a question to you, Madam Minister, is that it was suggested that the Chamber of Forest Engineers would start working in 2016. So when certain financial resources are provided. I'm asking a question, perhaps a suggestion, that along with this chamber of foresters, it's either a hunting-shuming chamber or whatever it is you'd call it. I think that in one sense and saving and using it would give a much better result and that the whole country would have a lot more effects than that, we're talking about revenues, it's from forests, than hunting. We know that Serbia is rich in this, and we had a few years ago, "Let's look after Serbia, let's keep the green environment." I am truly convinced that all MPs here are in the mood to behave like this. We have heard on many occasions the use of New Year's and Christmas holidays, that this is exactly what's going on, but we through this law will have farmed territories where these New Year's trees or Christmas trees will be able to be bought in one way as planned, and let's not ruin our national consciousness and our religious customs so much. If someone cuts off the Christmas tree, they don't have to blame him. I thank you and in the day for voting me and my MP group will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37123	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milosavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37124	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, respected fellow Members, respected MPs, in the context of a debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, I will talk today about the ecological aspect and importance of forest protection. The forest, as my colleague Gordana Topic said, is said to be our planet's lungs. The tree is the oldest living organism, and the largest lungs are the tropical forests of Amazonia. They are the largest in the world and from them planets of the earth come the most oxygen. But today, unfortunately, we can conclude that the lungs of the planets are almost life-threatening, even the Amazon jungle is being threatened because it absorbs significant amounts of carbon dioxide and becomes a reservoir of toxic matter. If it only comes down to the ordinary forest, it will cause a catastrophic acceleration of the global warming of our planet. The uncontrollable utilising of Amazon rain forest carries unsightly consequences. It is difficult, unfortunately, to accurately overlook all the consequences for the planet's ecosystem, but it is realistic to assume that the effects of global warming will be devastating for many plant species. Forests cover about 30% of the total land surface. There are them both in the hottest and coldest areas, except Antarctica. We call them various names: tropical forests, forests, taigas, lungs. One thing is clear, we destroy them at an incredible rate, although half of the species live in them, people cut about 16 million hectares under the forest annually, which is just like cutting the forest on a surface of about two Serbias a year. By cutting down forests, we destroy a vast part of the planet's biodiversity, and we cut it for various reasons. We cut them for a new space for life, because there's more and more of us on the planet. We cut them for roads, fields, we cut them for industrial wood use, not taking care that animals and plants that live in tropical forests are mostly endemic and the loss of habitats disappears. Not only do plants and animals suffer from deforestation. Three hundred million people live in the world's forests. The most famous are pygmies living in Central Africa. In addition, 1.6 billion people live in the forest. Let me remind you that as much as 12 to 20% of the global emissions of greenhouse gases come from deforestation. The logging forest, which cools our heated planet, releases the huge amount of carbon dioxide that further heats us. Like the Amazon's planet's lungs, Serbian forests are Serbia's lungs. In order for the planet to be green, every country must guard its forests. Serbia and through today's amendments to the Law on Forests, improves the legislative framework that should be the basis for a much more responsible attitude towards forest goods. Unfortunately, it is common practice for us not to follow the letters of the law unless it is in our own best interests. This is why the law that we are discussing today is important for our forests, because improved legal solutions allow better management, better protection, and most importantly, conditions are created for new reforestations. To remind me that Serbia has about 29% of areas under the woods, very irregularly distributed. At least it's a forested Vojvodina, about 7%. I would point out some new legal solutions and measures, which I unreservedly support. First of all, the legal framework prescribes a system of integrated, uniform management and forest protection in the territory of the entire Republic, because there are no limits in nature for individual processes and ececesses. Fire or leper or disease don't know the limits. It's a good thing the law defines in a more precise way the concept of the forest itself, so that these concepts include small areas, i.e. area larger than only five acres, if they have grown in forest trees and crown trees of 30% of the surface. This law accurately defines the concepts that contribute to the protection of forests. It's, first of all, a notion from a national plan. Why does it matter? We are witnessing that in the past year, both the flood and the ice killed our forests. The appearance of a large number of slides on forest land has damaged the large forest surface, and ice rains and snowfalls have destroyed large forest areas both national and private. So far, there has been no legal possibility for these damages to be remedied directly, as they could not have been designed for these purposes. Now this big problem is being solved by predicting budget resources for the resolution of forest damage in these amendments to the law. In addition, I would draw attention to another major problem, the problem of illegal and uncontrollable cutting of forests. Large areas and private and uncontrollable state forests intersect unconditionally. The amendments to the law introduce much better control by reintroducing an escort that follows the path of the cut tree. On the other hand, in order to compensate for lost areas under forests, whether due to cutting or natural disasters, fires, ice-skating or ice-creaming, faster and more organised shading is necessary. Under this law, the state will provide a framework and resources, but we citizens need to participate more actively in this. Sometimes mass shaming was done by volunteering. That's how hundreds of thousands of acres were forested. I also appeal today to commit ourselves in a similar way to shaming and protecting forests and forest treasures. Finally, I am pleased with the solutions in this law, which improves the state's attitude towards forests and provides both the conditions and the means of protection and to say that both I and the SPS parliamentary group will support all the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture directed at this area and in the voting day we will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37125	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic is not here. National MP Aleksandar Markovic has given up. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37126	Thank you. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are still records of Serbia's noise from the earliest times. I find it interesting one from 1168 when Wilhelm Tirski wrote – Serbia is a hilly, foresty and impenetrable end. At that time, it is said in those records that for days it traveled from Nis to Belgrade and that almost the sky was not seen how dense the trees were and that that was exactly what our Serbia looked like. In the 13th and 14th centuries, mass cuttings of forests began and, of course, there was a need for space for life, a place for food and it was completely and justifiable, but already Emperor Dusan was concerned about why such forests quickly disappeared, and he also banned them from cutting themselves, with the desire to rebuild themselves. Even in Dušan’s code, Article 123 provides that forests can only be cut for mining purposes. How important forests for Serbia have been for centuries also shows that almost every other or third name of our village or city has either the name of a forest or the name of a tree. Today, Serbia's noise is slightly below 30%. Today it was debated that it was optimal. I'd disagree somewhere if it were an optimum, and that just showed last year's flood, because I'm sure there's been more noise in many places, it wouldn't happen if there were floods like that, because the woods, or just the trees, keep it from being flooded, keep it from coming to an erosion of land, and that's all that's happened to us, and it's shown us nature itself that we still have to increase the noise. The average noise in Europe, we heard, is 40%, in Montenegro is 60%, in the countries around us it's some average that we should reach, at least about 40% and the state is working intensively on, it's for every praise. We all know that oxygen producers are oceans and forests, as well as oceans that only gave about 8% of the oxygen, and they themselves, unfortunately, die, to us as the only source of oxygen we can really rely on are the forests. How man destroys forests for days could be spoken of, unfortunately, but what is a fact, if we continue at such a pace, I fear that our close descendants will remember from books as they are. Unfortunately, there won't even be life on earth then, but that would be if at such a pace continued. If we don't stop it, it'll be our reality. Forests have very significant and numerous functions. Someone even listed 450 functions of the forest. I would, in addition to producing oxygen, therefore, produce wood biomass, renewable energy sources, protect water from pollution, protect from floods, protect land from erosion, we heard, can be windy belts, as significant as they are, have social function, economic function and many other functions, so that their disappearance would, above all, cause global warming, very significant changes in the climate, the growth of salinity in the land, which is very significant, because the disappearance, i.e. by reducing forests, could not survive other plants and animals due to the increase in salinity in the land, as well as the decrease in the amount of oxygen. The plan for forest management is also the subject of this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of laws that are ahead of us, particularly the protection of biodiversity, i.e. the diversity of forests, which includes the sustainable use of forests. Sustainable use means that we use this resource optimally, to use it carefully by leaving it to our future generations. So, in the previous 2010 Forest Act, we heard that there were several provisions that were simply inapplicable somewhere, and above all, the adoption of the annual forest management plan, then the medium-term forest protection plan, the number of forest areas and their development plan, and then the time of the forest and licensing. It is very important here that the licensing is envisaged, but even the chamber of forestry engineers have not been revived, because the previous law does not provide for the initial means of setting up this chamber. Also, no planning document is prescribed for the state forests of the surface which are less than 100 hectares and, of course, what has been shown in last year's floods, which was missing, is a recovery plan, and this is a document that would allow for the reaction and removal of the adverse consequences resulting from the situation that has hit us. What has definitely caused the biggest problem is the small powers of forest inspection, the Republic forest inspection, and that's what the proposal for this new law will work on the most. So, these changes and additions are just doing away with these shortcomings that I've listed. I would also mention a change in the definition of a forest which has so far looked only at the area occupied by the forest, it was five acres, and now the criterion has been introduced and that the soil coverage with crown trees is at least 30%. So it's very important what the structure of the trees on that surface is, can we really call it the forest. Then, forest areas are established as the largest spatial plan of land and forest management planning. So from now on, there will be seven forest areas that will be covered by the master development plan and will include the 27 forest areas and forests that are within the national parks. We have heard many times the alignment with the powers of the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry, which is very important, because regardless of when we take the average noise level in our country, the AP Vojvodina really deserves a lot of attention. Then, there is a alignment with the Law on Public Enterprises, under which the public undertaking "Serbiasum" will have the duty to comply with the provisions of this law in the next six months. What's very important is the alignment with the adopted Law on Public Property, which simply made a vacuum somewhere, has made this gap, and therefore we have tens of thousands of hectares of state forests without guardians and without adequate protection, resulting in irregular cutting and abuse of these forests. Therefore, from now on, for forests of state property, which are not a specific user or user does not meet the conditions laid down by this law, the user will determine the Government, of course on a proposal from the competent ministry, until the transfer and allocation of rights of use. So this way you'll get rid of these tens of thousands of acres of devastated forests that are simply somewhere as a result of this vacuum. The amendments allow public enterprises, whose founder is local self-government, to manage, and which so far have managed forests, to continue, of course, if they comply with the provisions and regulations of this law. The procedure for handling natural disasters has also been defined, and what is very important is that it proposes the release of the obligation of owners and users of forests in these cases, because, of course, it cannot be called using the forest. It also introduces the release from the obligation to pay for the wood cut, when it comes to the forest rehabilitation programme, because so far we have had the situation that the owner does not want to report that the tree has been killed, and such a tree is subject to damage and any diseases, and therefore the whole forest may suffer, because it has to pay compensation, and it is not guilty of injury, or injury to such a tree. This change is extremely important. Changes in the payment of forest charges, forest land, by changing the basis for the calculation are proposed. Up until now, the total annual income of forest owners has been taken, and now the total annual income from forest use has been taken. So it counts for pure wood exploitation, which is really good, because it's going to cut the fees and this is good for all those who run the woods. As a measure of reducing irregular or illegal cutting, mandatory documentation is introduced, which is excluded as an obligation in 2010. So now they're going to have to have a tree in the traffic, next to a stamp on the cut tree, to have mandatory documentation. It's an escort for wood and private property and shipping for wood from the state woods. I've listed some of the most important changes to this law, there are others, but what's very important is that so far there have been laws relating to forests, or to forest management, but that their application has lagged somewhere. I hope that the higher competencies of forest inspection will lead to better application of these provisions, and that will certainly soon be seen in practice. What I'd like to mention is that there's an act of shamming, and that's for every praise. This includes numerous institutions and local self-government. Of course, the goal is to increase deforestation, but my desire is not only to plan the deforestation, but also to involve experts in the process of shaming itself, so that we do not come into a situation where we use a species that will later be less resistant, because the ingredients consisting of only one type of forest content are much less resistant than mixed ingredients. It is also necessary to take care of the surrounding part of the forest ingredients, as well as the conditions and land on which it is planted. Also, it's not good to have a lot of different species planted on a small surface, so my suggestion is to be involved in the field of expertise. I'm sure they'd all like to meet each other, so we don't have any more damage than we do. What I would say is that a member of the 19th Amendment is now a program for the development of forestry brings the government instead of the National Assembly, which has been so far, and I always struggled that the National Assembly has a share somewhere, so it is my appeal to participate in some discussions or to discuss a strategy for the development of forestry. So, sometimes, for the end, as we saw at the beginning, people through those dense forests fought for some of their places for life, for their cities, and today we fight for our forests, for what's left, for those forests to grow. Of course, most forests, quality forests, of course, with one good demographic picture is what I'd like us to leave together to our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37127	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, the distinguished Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, I would like to make three remarks, as some kind of previous note, to the distinguished guest, Minister Bosković Bogosavljevic, and then two remarks, one question and one remark, perhaps, at the very end. First of all, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, you started your presentation with one questionable sentence this morning. That statement was: What is the forest? With one smile on my face, I have to say, I liked that start, because it focused us on the question of something that really matters. I think you've responded nicely, but here again to remind the MPs who may not have listened carefully or had some kind of objection to the content, I noticed that Mr. Shormaz had some kind of objections. It says – the forest is surrounded by forest trees, the minimum surface area of five acres with minimal soil coverage, the crown trees of 30%, and then added in the following attitudes something else. It is a little right for me to tell you, now and personally, that it has returned to some memory and basic school, as if we had little presence in a kind of question from "Knowledge of Nature", and I consider Mrs Bosković Bogosavljevic that it was good. I, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, also appreciate that when you come to the National Assembly you participate in the debate with the MPs and the MPs. We sometimes deal with ministers and ministers here, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, who will close almost the entire session. They don't answer a single question, not a single dilemma, and I'm seeing this one kind of struggle with you. The third note is this previous one, I appreciate the direction of respected gentlemen, guests and guests and towards improving the provisions of the Law on Forests. I think everything that's legal, and especially this area, should attract our particular attention. Then I am now focusing on Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and two remarks, i.e. a question and a remark as I have announced. I noticed that Mrs. Marash, for example, told you here – you keep your promises. Of course, you are also members of the same political party and are a little bit boasted in a statement, but I remembered Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that you here to us New Party MPs, at the previous session when we talked about national parks, also promised something, and you failed to meet it, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. You promised us that you would use the rules, spelling, and grammar of the Serbian language more carefully, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, and you didn't do it today. That's why we're MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, and I'm surprised now that Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic is not intervened. Today when you notice that something isn't fulfilled, and two days ago, or yesterday, it was me, I think, coming up about some other thing. How is it that Mr. Neđo Jovanovic did not submit seven amendments, for example, to Article 9, where it is said – the owner, or the user of the forest, is obliged to implement a rejuvenation and that area on which rejuvenation failed. So he can’t “in whom. ” It had to be said: "the area on which it is", and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic as a lawyer, the lawyer here measures every word, wants us to speak precisely. He didn't notice, for example. I expect Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic to stand up now and you and Mr Neđo Jovanovic will be following the principle of ethics and responsibilities and ask Mr Bečić for a word and say here – he is the right MP of the opposition when he tells us this kind of remarks. Why? I know Mr. Nejo Jovanovic knows that. The precision of language means precision in defining the law, and that's what respected gentlemen always bring us back. I see Mr. Becic is nodding now. He knows in Article 3. The Constitution of our Republic that defines the most important principle of our Constitution, which is the principle of respected gentlemen, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic – rule of law. We're in the Assembly, we need to pay attention. I have one question, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic. I am referring to what Mr. Shormaz said. It seems to me that Mr. Shormaz's idea was to ask you, did you pass a polygraph on this bill, since a polygraph was introduced as a basic criterion of truth, justice...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37129	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place:... Congratulations, gentlemen. ) The word is Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. (Dear Shormaz, from town: Replica. Mr. Shormaz, it's not enough that he just mentioned your name. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: How not enough, both the polygraph and the Shormaz. If that's where you are, go ahead. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37130	Mr. Becic, first of all it was wrong, a colleague at the beginning of the speech mentioned me in the context that I had objections to the law. I didn't make any single remarks about the law, I absolutely commended him. And now I'm saying that they're excellent changes and additions to the law and that they make it more precise and better, so with respect and some inaccuracies that need to be solved by amendment. That is why there is a National Assembly where all 250 MPs were equal to the government, whether they support the government, whether they do not support, that the opposition, have the right to submit amendments, to correct the laws and in the day to vote, to vote for their amendments and for the laws that have been corrected for the better. The minister doesn't have a single reason to go on a polygraph, because she's doing her job right. Those who cheat, lie to Serbian citizens, and say they did not, have no reason not to go on a polygraph to prove they were right. Those who avoid going to a polygraph, they themselves confirm that everything they did, for example, Mr. Bojan Pajtic with the Vojvodine Development Bank and with all the other things he did while he was president of the government, the Regional Development Fund, etc., hides something as soon as he doesn't want to go on a polygraph. The Minister has nothing to hide, she's fixing the situation and I don't see why you even mentioned her in such a context.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37131	I apologize to Mrs. Comic whether the Democratic Party is mentioned. (Gordana Comic, from the post: As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Is the DS mentioned? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Bojan Pajtic said. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, mentioned me. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no right to a replica. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Must be the party mentioned, not the name. ) The party president, Mr. Martinovic, is enough. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no right to a replica. Mrs. Comic, if the party president is mentioned, you are right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37132	Thank you. The only content of the replica that could be shared, without even running away from the topic of the agenda, is that every intention to defamation, lying and defamation mentions Democratic Party President Bojan Pajtic, is the idea that no forest can be seen from the trees, which is that campaigns to which the topic is the activity of the Democratic Party's president hides what the affairs are about the ruling party. (Marko Atlagic, from the site: No such affairs. I don't mind, please don't throw it away because I didn't throw it to you while you insulted the president of the Democratic Party. I respect this house, I respect the chairman, so I'd like to receive such respect in return, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37133	I ask the MPs to allow Mrs. Comic to complete a two-minute replica. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37134	I would ask with a lot of understanding how common it is and how much it is thought that each topic in politics is a convenient arena for personal accounts, that we still take care of the language we treat each other, each other, however you wish, because that's a common benefit. If politics is perceived as a place where everyone can muddle everyone and slander everyone and if it is understood as a space of personal reckoning, then at least we will do what politics really is, and that is to change the lives of people living in Serbia, whether we are power or opposition. The fascination with the Democratic Party, the authorities themselves who say they support it all is very interesting. We're grateful, but no offense please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37135	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go, Mrs. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37136	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I fully agree that there is an extremely important law ahead of us that we expect to improve the situation in the area related to the forest. As we have heard, the forests have been reduced throughout the centuries, both in the world and in ours. The reminders are about the deforestation of the forest, for example, Vuk Karadzic wrote in his history of Serbia of his time, at the time of the book of Milos, when the forests were piling up and the land turned into agricultural land, which was probably justified at the time. After more than a hundred years, we will remember Branislav Nusic, who introduces us to the Zivka Minister's Uncle Jakov, who asks him to allow him to cut down one state forest and nothing else. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking because, and many years after that, we've been forced again to protect the state and other forests, from ourselves and from this tradition that's rooted in us in the last 200 years. The last revision and completion of the Law on Forests was made in 2010 and due to the lack, only five years later, we correct what has proved to be extremely harmful for both the state and the state forests. We must not allow the wealth of our forests to be destroyed and resources to be recovered for decades and sometimes centuries. In particular, in the border areas of the state of stealing forest wood has become a regular and lucrative occupation, without more severe sanctions and mainly with minimal coincidences, where citizens only think for a moment in which they, and certainly not the future, are destroying both state and private forests for their own benefit. It is these amendments and additions to the laws that we have heard from both the Minister and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, to ensure sustainable forest management, to enable them to prevent, to a greater extent, the theft of heating wood, to amend and supplement the laws, to prescribe treatment in situations where forests are destroyed due to fires, floods, floods, floods, ice storms and slides, to institutionally cover the responsibilities of certain state authorities in the process of cutting, transporting and selling heating wood and reselling forest soil after weather disasters, natural disasters and deforestation. We know and heard from my colleagues that apart from natural, or ecological benefits, forests have both economic, social, recreational and aesthetic benefits. Forests are important for both industry and defence. Our task is to prevent forest wealth from being stolen, destroyed and demoted and to organize forest management in the best possible way. The huge areas of forest land and forests are currently without owners, i.e. in the privatisation of certain enterprises. We know that the woods are excluded from the same, so a vacuum is created that there is no one over the state forests to manage and manage in the right way. It is precisely this law that corrects these inconsistencies, but also returns to the jurisdiction of forest inspection, which can control wood cutting and transport on the ground and take all necessary steps to protect the forest from the theft of forest thieves and unplanned cutting. The reminders for, in the last five years, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, this job has been doing market inspection and traffic police. At the end of my presentation, I would like to say that I do, and that would be some sort of suggestion on my part, in order for the law to give the expected results, we must work in parallel with its application and to raise citizens' awareness of the importance of the forest for the country and society in general and on the need to preserve as many forests as possible, but also to do, in parallel with the management of forests every year, permanent deforestation and even minimal restoration of this resource, and of course, all for the benefit of our and future generations. So, in voting day, I will support, as well as my MP group of SNS, this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37137	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37138	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, and you see for yourself that today, in very exhaustive discussions, we first raise the question - what are the reasons for the 2010 amendments to the law? First of all, this law improves the provisions of the applicable 2010 law, tries to eliminate its shortcomings, aligns with the Law on Public Enterprises, and refers to the JP "Serbian" which is required to comply with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises and is given a period of six months. The adoption of the Public Property Act created a legal vacuum, in which there is no mechanism for the transfer of rights of use of state forests which do not have users, or whose user does not meet the conditions laid down by this law which is now being removed. The user will, in effect, determine the government on a proposal from the ministry responsible for forestry affairs. This is a very big problem, because a few tens of thousands of forests in state property have been devastated by illegal cuts, and no one has recovered this condition so far. This law establishes a legal framework and procedures for the management of natural disasters, defines the concept of disasters, enables adequate response and funding for the removal of consequences, and also proposes the release of the obligation to pay compensation in such situations, because virtually in such situations forests are not used. Also, this law proposes amendments to forest use and forest land charges, changes to the basis for the calculation of the wood cut-off in the state forests, the lease for the purposes of forest management plans and in specific cases: the average passage, the execution of geodetic works, geological research, scientific and research visits, the opening of fire-fighting lines, the suppression of plant diseases, pests, the reuse of land, the disposal of ash on the surfaces that have been forested by recycling projects, as well as when other natural phenomena have threatened most of the forest trees, if this does not destroy the priority functions of forests identified by forest management plans, so that they do not come into place when fires have hit many areas in 2012, and there has been no anti-road roads. I remember perfectly in 2012, when Cačak suffered huge damage due to the fire, because it was affected about 300 hectares of pine forests and low growth in many villages near Cačka, and I will only mention Gornja Gorevnica, Miokovce and Srezojevaca. Over 300 households were then vacuumed and threatened, even had to intervene both the military and the gendarmes. I'd like to look back on my discussion of Article 42. The forest law, which amends the existing Article 80 and sets out measures from the forest development programme that can be financed from the budget. The budget can therefore finance works on reconstruction and maintenance of forest truck roads, the use of other forest potentials, recoverys and areas damaged by the fact of natural disasters, the development plans in forestry. Therefore, it is possible for local self-governments to finance activities to improve the general useful functions of forests of importance for local self-government. The question arises, what are the objectives achieved by passing the law? First, we will achieve an improvement in the state of all forest functions in the Republic of Serbia by establishing a single system of forest management. Everything will be measurable through the parameters of the forest area in the Republic of Serbia, we will know their quality, we will know how much wood volume through the volume of registered illegal cuttings, through the number of applications filed against the perpetrators of criminal acts under the law. Who and how will the proposed legal solutions affect? So first on the users and owners of the forest, then on the work of the Republic forest inspection, courts, as well as society in general, because measures are being introduced to reduce the volume of illegal cuttings, which should contribute to the protection of natural resources, from which our entire community benefits because of its general useful functions. Several public debates were held in the process of passing legislative changes, many working meetings were held, and the official debate was held from July 3nd to July 22nd 2015 and many good suggestions were incorporated in the bill's proposal, which will significantly improve its text. In the end, I see this law as a good step forward in improving overall forestry in Serbia and certainly in Voting Day, with my colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37139	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the day, I should say, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, that the forests are rich, that a country that has forests like we have should not worry about the existence of its citizens. If I say that we earn more on the export of mushrooms than on the export of meat, then it says enough about the quality of our forests, but also about our handicap in the field of warfare and livestock, when forests in mushrooms, not only in forest fruits, but only in mushrooms as forest fruits give more export than we have in the export of pig and beef. We also need the woods to build houses. Our old ones are all they needed in the woods. You can build a carpentry, you can build furniture, you can build whole houses, which can only be made of wood, they can later be painted, mostly, the woods have more of their useful properties. The woods are our lungs. Forests affect air quality. Forests help to overcome harmful matter in the air. Forests heal, through the air, and through healing plants. The woods are very important for hiding too. The woods also hid us as refugees but as soldiers. As soldiers in retreat, as well as soldiers in the attack. That's why forests should be nurtured, because they're important for the safety of the country. Nothing like a forest can mask and hide an army and therefore a lot of attention for security reasons should be devoted to the woods. Forests feed their fruits, not just mushrooms, various berries, food people, feed cattle, part of domestic animals. Forests are particularly important, and fellow Shormaz knows that, for the game, which is most gladly and best hidden there, not only from hunters but especially from poachers. The forest helps them to be a smaller target and hunters and poachers must make some effort to find them, but in the woods hunters should also supplement the diet of savages, especially in winter. Forests can also be potential for energy. As a member of the Parliamentary Forum for Energy Policy, I will pay attention to the development of energy through the forest in my speech. The potential for total forest mass is 6% a year. The tree warms up the population, and from the rest of the tree, which we are not currently extracting, because over 40% of what could lead to a collapse in the woods and we're losing money, can be used for energy. This mass can produce a bunch of pellets a year, a bunch of energy, which can replace a part of the gas, part of the oil, can employ the population in processing, in the production of pellets, in the production of various types of furniture from wood, in the production of energy. All that brings revenue to the state. Part of these revenues should be returned to the forest, and the difference would be to those who invest in it, workers, especially those who live inside and who should stay in those forests and mountains. So, to restore that population there, to repeat, to have something to do. In my opinion, the main function of the forest is to preserve the population that lives here, so that our territories don't empty out, so that they don't belong to someone else later, because it's realistic that when we move out and leave our fields, forests and villages, it's realistic that some other peoples take the place that currently takes our population. The use of forests and trees as energy in percentages of 6% of this mass, which is some standard, 5-6%, would greatly reduce SO-2 emissions, especially because we are signatories of the agreement and we fry a lot of coal, we emit 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, which is due to the agreement, and later, when we enter the EU, it can be the amount of tax this country has to pay at 240m euros per year, which brings us to electricity collection. If we replace coal with some other energy, and the forests are for God's sakes, if they are exploited within those limits where I said allowed, and if that doesn't endanger their self-renovation, in which case we will pay less pollution fees, in which case there will be less money to be allocated to imports of gas, oil, etc. The forest energy is being complemented by the planting of new fast-growing trees, not only around the roads, as my colleague Blazic said, which serves to protect against the winds, but can also be complemented by the exploitation of abandoned land, which in Serbia has, by my estimate, about 800,000, because it is approximately located near the forest and to be complemented. The amount of energy we can produce from the forest, if we grow fast-growing trees, if we plant a miscantus, a Chinese cane, it would replace nine thousand gallons of diesel per hectare, and on this abandoned land, which is measured by tens and hundreds of thousands of hectares, which is near the forest, we could produce these biomasss, only 50% to use that abandoned land, we could produce biomass that could produce energy, heat and others, which replace 360 million liters of diesel. So this would help us to make our deficit to the outside far smaller, to be more energy efficient, not only to be an importer of energy, to become an exporter of energy, to be able to provide energy through these renewable, renewable energy production and to supply the processing industry to energy, to host electricity, but also to heat energy that can be produced when electricity is made from bio-mass. The woods aren't just stealing, dragging and running. The woods can be very good for business, and that's why I said it. Forests can be work and bread for thousands of people who live there and for thousands of people who are currently lurking in the suburbs of empty pockets and empty stomachs and whose poverty is almost unsustainable to look at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37141	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The next speaker is MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37142	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Srdjan Kruževic, who was authorised today in front of the JS parliamentary group, said we would support this law. Of course, I agree with that, and I think this is really a good law. I want to share one experience with you and everyone. As I come from Vrnjačka Banja, and Vrnjačka Banja was fortunate to have an MP, Mr. Rodoljub Jamic, who was then an MP in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, who stood up and managed to get a large space, over 8,600 acres of forest located on the Goc Mountain above Vrnjačka Banja, to cross our administration, the Vrnjačka Banja municipality, and to have our JP "Borjak" run with those forests. First of all, it was important because all these forests preserved the springs that Vranjčka Banja, sources of both drinking water and urban water and our mineral springs. But when it comes to forest management, it turns out that in some period since 2000, so from this period that we're in today, compared to the videos that were once made from satellites and videos that we can easily cross-reference over Google earth, it's seen that this area under the forest is getting smaller and smaller. Of course, the Faculty of Forests included and gave guidance on how to manage, the amount to be cut is limited, but it has been misused every time by some people. Even that public company that got the right to run 8,600 acres of forest, and in the area where I come from, they say it's the host of one who has two or three acres of forest, and it's owned by 8,600 acres of forest. Because of the people who treated the business recklessly, the company, believe it or not, instead of the plus that was to be measured in millions of euros, has become in a situation that is losing more than a million euros. And that's probably incomprehensible to you, maybe to everyone else, but unfortunately, no one's ever answered for it. I believe that with other colleagues who will have a chance to manage one of these resources tomorrow, given that the law allows them to do so, the same situation will not happen, and that our situation will be improved within a very short period of time. You said that we should, let's say so, that someone who manages tens of thousands of acres of forest, with which no one now owns, but I'm giving an example, where and when a bad boss can be made a problem, so just keep in mind since it's the government that has to empower someone to land so many surfaces. One fine experience was the experience of the past time, which I am personally sorry for being behind us now, and that was the time when a large number of actions, a large number of young Gorans were just working on not to make that resource, the great resource of the forest disappear, but as much as it was cut down, that more than that would always be planted. A short time ago, counterpart Risticevic said that these forests throughout history have always helped us, not only through those unfortunate wars we have waged and so that a large number of people could find their own safety there, but also that resource in situations where the country is difficult, it is easy to use. Someone said today that Germany did it after World War II and I checked it out and it was true. Great resources were used and it certainly had an impact on one part of their economy coming to life. I urge you to try to organize something similar. You as a minister at the Ministry of Agriculture and Ecology, perhaps in agreement with the Ministry of Education, gives one good idea to revive these work actions, although someone disagrees with them, I want to share another experience with you. In 2010, I managed to organize a similar work action in Vrnjačka Banja, over three brigades we hosted and were with us for less than a month and these were brigades from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia and Slovenia. Evidence that it is possible to do so today, and yet our authority and authority from the position of local self-government, are not so large, the resources and resources that we have available have limited us to be able to do it once and for all, we could no longer deal with such an organization. Therefore, I urge you to make an effort and bring similar actions back to life in Serbia and not to talk about cutting forests anymore, but to talk about shaming. Once again, the JS parliamentary group will support this good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37143	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37144	Thank you. Dear Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. There have been various discussions. Basically, all my colleagues essentially agreed that the law was good, that there was a flaw, that it had to be fixed. By reading this law, I was under the impression that he was replacing the shortcomings of the law that was in force until today, that he was particularly placed on what was in practice proved to be a great flaw and something that the state could not control. You stated that it is a yearly guess of the ministry, based on your analysis, that about six million cubic metres of wood is cut in Serbia, and I suppose it's a warm tree, because everything else is registered, and that half of it is something that is registered, which is passed through some record, and that what is cut is paid a cut tax of 5%, which is about 200 dinars per cubic metre, which would be recalculated, I say 200 dinars, because the price of "Serbishum" of the heating tree is about 4,000, so it comes to 200 dinars per cubic meter, which is about three million euros per year's income, which is about five million euros. If you calculate it that way. And that the intention of the legislator is to give you these three million cubic metres of wood that you assume to be illegally cut, cut, entered into the records, and to pay a tax which is normal. What my concern is, and you said, is that about 800,000 cubic metres of wood was cut in private bans, in private possessions, and you solved it, by freeing these people from paying taxes so that they would have records, provided it was a sanitary cut, that the ice, the rinks, caused damage to that ban, those forests private and probably 90% will be declared, that we understand it, that it is precisely a memory of that, and the rest of the two million, imposes the conclusion that stealing forests and now that stealing forests is either in the edge areas, as one colleague said, in the southern areas of Serbia, is thought of the southern part of Serbia, there is the biggest theft of forests and that of the state forests, because usually, private forests are stolen or along the administrative border, the state forest is threatened, and this remains, where these forests and who cut them. If you assume that two million cubic metres is cut into state forests, how do you think by increasing the surveillance that has been so far, it's obvious that there are inspectors in the woods, foresters who follow and take care of the cutting forest, how do you think to prevent that cut? What's very interesting is the part where you suggested that taxis be free from the part that's being looked at, which is for the average passage and execution of geodetic works, geological research, for scientific research and that's totally fine and that's fine, but this part of me is a pair of ears. It is the installation of pipelines, PTTs, electrical and other waterways and similar works. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is about commercial content. These are all commercial facilities and the installation of pipelines and PTT installations, electrical installation, whether they're underground or underground power lines and similar works and other installations, and I ask what we're going to do with, what's interesting about national parks and our mountains, what we're going to do with the cablers and ski trails. Are we going to free the cabs and cut the woods? Are we going to release the payments and use of that land? I would insist that this section relating to the installation of pipelines, PTT installations, electrical and other waterways and similar works is first written on what other waterways and similar works are, because in the country of Serbia everything must be clear and decaded, that we give as little opportunity to interpret freely what the legislator wanted to say and that it is subject to the payment of taxis and rents, as everything else is subject to the lease. Next my question, it's a good thing you've decided that all the state woods are gonna be, that they get a master who's gonna take care of them, and that's good. It's a lease, and it's not a cutting tax, it's a lease of use that's instead, just that it's paid on cut wood that's in that rented space, it's all the stuff on the annual level, what are the Benefits using the one that the tenant made over the year, where is this lease going and who does this lease go to? Is this the budget revenue from the lease of the forest, I mean the minister, or is it income, which would normally be for some green fund that needs to serve the refurbishment of the forest, because we say that we want to achieve that 10% period, of 28%, 30%, of what the average is now, to reach the European average to 40%. I think that's good. This raises the question of why there is no green fund that is promised and why we do not have strictly dedicated colored money beyond the budget to be used to rebuild the forest. One more question, if we cut two million trees a year, and that's six million cubics, because the average one tree is about three cubic metres, do you have any information on how many plants we plant annually, if we're going to achieve that 40%, means that we have to plant over two million trees a year, or seedlings. It is known that the "Serbishum" has its own nursery where these seedlings are grown and whether they are planted and if there is a plan to make everything that has been cut, and you said that we have 70% of the editions, i.e. and nothing but forests, and only 30% are tall forests that all should be like that. It'd be good if it was 100%. That means we're kind of under-renewing the woods and we're not planting enough or we're not enough. You pointed out that the basic problem is private land that is not motivated to plant forests now on their parcels. I'll tell you that our SDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary group and the ZZS party has that in their programme, encouraging development, economic development of Serbia, is one of the important things about the use of biomass, and a significant part of that biomass is wastewood, it's in the woods when you cut what's left of that branch, it's about 30% of what we cut. I'll give you information to understand what I'm talking about, to make it more plastic, Serbia spends about two million tons of oil annually. It's about some imports that meet our state needs, and at this point in Serbia, about 300,000 tonnes of biomass from forest waste can be obtained annually, after regular cutting and work in the forest. It is Madam Minister, the energy equivalent of 120,000 tonnes of oil and what is needed, it is to engage this potential, to convert 1.6 million hectares of the issuing forests that we have in Serbia, from which we would get as much as 90 million tonnes of biomass. If we translate all of this, it's for so much less oil imports, it's for so much less budget exchanges, and it's one of the major and stronger arguments that there's going to be a reduction in the budget deficit because our budget deficit, our budget deficit generator is the imbalance of imports and exports, it's our budget deficit generator. It means that we as a state and you as a government would have to have a development plan in the long run, and all of this I'm saying is what it is to stimulate farmers to renovate their forests, to let them have benefit, I don't know, that I am now bidding, to be freed from paying taxes on the property on that part that renovate forests, to get free seedlings, to have a safe placement of what will mature as a tree on their parcels, and we as a country in the long run will have green technologies, a reduction of imports and a much better situation in the Republic budget. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37145	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word has a minister, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37146	Thank you. I want to briefly comment on some of your statements, or the data that you have now presented, we simply didn't understand enough for some, so here I want to draw this attention to them. We have said that according to our estimates, the annual level of cut, i.e. the annual volume of the cut wood is six million feet [6 million m] cubic. That means now that we've come to this data based on some research and I'd like to tell you that these are research conducted by our representatives of the Forest Administration and, of course, co-workers at the Ministry. One is related to a study done in co-operation with the government of Finland, and another research concerns a sustainable biomass market in Serbia currently being realised in co-operation with the GIZ. So that's the data from these researches and so they say. Of which, of the six million we cut annually, which is what we have through this wooden biomass, about three million or 50% is a registered tree. You're saying that with this, we want to secure a bigger budget fee, so through the charge of the wood taxi that was cut, which we haven't picked up the fee, we want to increase that revenue of the budget that we should again and that's going again because that's the way it is in forestry, and that's true. Of course, we want to achieve that effect, but we also want to achieve the effect that the forest is being cut down planically, that whoever cuts the forest, the owner, whoever, whoever it is, consults the professional services, those who are in charge of the bossing so that we can accurately specify which tree is that which tree can be cut, who needs to be cut, who will not compromise the forest eco system. That's our second intention. In doing so, I have to say once again, to clarify these three million meters of cubic which are not registered, for which no fee has been paid, no experts have determined which trees can be cut. And again I want to say that it's not, that we're not saying that it's all illegal cutting in order to get some of the benefits material, because the good part of this cut is actually done by citizens, the owners of the forest, who thus provide themselves with a heating tree. Now we must also remind ourselves that the practice of using was mass for energy purposes in Serbia, because this very warm tree was the mass used by our citizens to warm up their apartments. You say now, we release some users there, or some owners from paying fees in certain situations, and that's true. We don't want to secure more budget revenue at all costs. We will release, propose that compensation be released from those owners, i.e. those owners or those who manage and use forests in cases where recovery measures need to be implemented. This is in cases where forests are affected by some natural disaster, whether it's an icy, whether it's a glider, a flood, etc. We've still had fresh memories since last year when we had really big damage in the forests of eastern Serbia, just because of the icelocks. It's just amazing, thousands of acres of forest was hit by these ice-colds. The woods are, it's simple to deny what it looks like, I can talk like this because I've been a couple of times, simply, trees like it's been halved. In these areas it is important and it is necessary that these trees are eventually cut, to be cleaned from the ground in order not to be the source of the spread of plant diseases and pests. Now, what happens in practice? In practice it happens that if it's about private forests, then that owner says - I won't do it because I have to pay the tax and to avoid this situation, we want to help them in such a way that they're simply freed from paying taxes because they didn't cut up and they won't cut the tree because they want to provide themselves with some material benefit, but simply because it's a higher interest, the interest to have that area remedied. It's really a very hard and high-quality job, and I think it really deserves support because, I say, I know what it all looks like, it's our interest to help, to support it, and to solve it as best we can. You asked how many trees we plant, how many wood masses we cut, how many trees we plant. Simply, in forestry it is not so simple and easy to calculate that the number of trees cut is now measured by the number of those planted. It's been planted this year, say, between five and six million seedlings. These are the seedlings provided by our funds, i.e. the Budget Fund for the Forests, the Forest Administration, or our Ministry. I have to say, at the beginning of today, I pointed out that six million metres of cubic mass is the volume of wood cut at the annual level, but I also said that on an annual level, there is an increase of wood mass of about nine million cubic metres, which means that if we were looking at a volume ratio, we have a greater increase than the volume of the cut wood. It's just that it's not a problem for a tree to be cut and replanted, and that's where we have to make one difference. It is also necessary to execute the cutting, but this cutting must be in line with strategic documents, with the planning documents, so that it is known exactly which tree is cut and why it is cut. You know it for sure and well, in forests or in your courtyards you must always do some screening or some cleaning, someone preparing to get what you have in mind, or to gain quality, which is what our professional services do, and the Faculty of Forestry is present and the Institutes of Forestry, and the "Serbishum" and "Vojvodinasum" and our experts within the Ministry. So, let them still arrange it, and I believe that they and this bill have worked to give them an even greater opportunity to better manage and better plan jobs in forestry. You also asked about the green fund. We promised, there'll be a green fund. The Green Fund will be when the laws are in the process. We can't go past the law. These are the three laws of the environment, the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Waste and the Law on the Protection of the Environment. All three laws have been prepared. They've received opinions from all the competent ministries, they've been translated, and now we're waiting for the consent of the European Commission, simply, that's the procedure. I expect we'll get to that agreement very quickly, and then we'll introduce them to you here in the congregation procedure. I think it is good and it is positive, because if they go through this triage with the European Commission, it means that we did well and that we have fully agreed our legislation in this area with European legislation. So, I hope so, and I expect those three laws to be by the end of this year. We've done everything that's up to us, everything is ready, a being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37147	Thank you, Minister Bogosavljevic, for the explanation and the answer. Mr. Bradiche, on what grounds do you want the word? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37148	Thank you. I am pleased that you said that Serbia plants between five and six million trees annually. This is the intention of all of us, and this means that we will reach a European average in due time and that we will eventually get high forests, not self-involved forests, which is very important and very important. What I would suggest to you is that as the Ministry of Green Technology, I think they're perspectives, and that you as the Ministry of Agriculture need to be a driver, because at the very end of the line, that's your intelligence. What I would still give as a suggestion is what, unlike this law, which is a little bit more centralised for me, and more centralizing decisions, especially when it comes to Serbian forests, I think that this should be decentralised and should be brought down to lower levels of government, so that future regions, and now the environments, tend to it, I mean not because the ministry is not good or not taking care of forests. It's big Serbia, one ministry, and they see it a lot better, and they react faster than the decision is expected, however well-intentioned, from a single centre. I think that the future in prosperity and progress of local communities is the downturn of ingenuity, so that people can directly solve the environment, preserve nature, and also make quick and quality decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37149	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37150	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Marinkovic, the Honorable Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. The illegal cutting of the forest in the Republic of Serbia with the approaching winter, Christmas holidays and especially New Year's, is becoming a more and more massive phenomenon. National forests, as well as private forests, are owned by nursing households or people who do not live in remote mountain villages all the time. Because of a mild criminal policy and when discovered, woodlanders generally pass with a minor fine, thus returning to the re-execution of the crime. The high-resolution maps, published by Google, with unprecedented precision reveal unprecedented destruction that has suffered forests on our planet caused by urea, stormy and forest fires. In total, about 1.5 million square km of forest was lost, corresponding to the area of the entire state of Alaska. Unfortunate and unfavorable people cut down forests across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and draw strategic raw materials, whose economic gain is poured into the pockets of those who are irregardlessly rich in property owned by a state or private person, who are largely powerless to protect their capital. The target of reckless theft is dozens of hectares of forest, which, after the law's entry into force, have been left without ageing and adequate protection, and are significantly exposed to theft and other illegal activities. The inability of a forest inspector to control and monitor the cut trees during their dislocation on means of transport, due to the lack of previous law and very often unsynchronised co-operation with market inspection is also one of the causes of the lawless cutting of trees across Serbia. The destruction of forests not only disrupts the complete ecosystem and the disappearance of certain species, but contributes in many ways to the catastrophic disasters caused by land erosions, which create slides that cause unseen consequences to households in mountainous and mountainous areas. Albania's forests in the municipality of Kursumli have illegally cut more than 50,000 cubic metres of wood so that the gendarmes had to intervene on several occasions, and in one of those in a series of prevention of the theft and cutting of trees, in which they participated, a member of the gendarme, Stevan Sidelic, died. The very important newspaper introduced by this Bill is the release of the owner of a natural person from paying a fee of 5% of the market value of wood at the place of the cut-off wood, while submitting a request for the identification of these cutting trees to them. The origin of wood in transport will have to be accompanied by adequate documentation, as well as a mandatory stamp as a guarantee of the origin of the trees cut, which will greatly facilitate the work of forest inspectors in preventing theft and illicit placing into the market of wood and wood for heating, which has not been the case so far. The forest recovery plan as an important segment of this bill will in many ways contribute to the timely resolution of the structure of damaged forests affected by fires, erosions, floods and other disasters, in order to remedy the damage to the forest and access to its recovery. World Forest Day, March 21st, is marked with the goal of raising humanity's awareness of the importance of forests, which account for more than 30% of the country's total land surface and stretching to about four billion hectares. The Goran movement was formed as an NGO in 1960. Three million seedlings of cetinaries, leaves and adornments are produced annually in the mountains. Over the past five decades, the mountain has been infested by about 300,000 hectares of nakedness. At the same time, they raised 94,980 hectares of high-born meadows and pastures and 31,300 hectares of forest so far, and in the course of the year, they have about 100,000 participants. Their goal is for Serbia to be completely naked and protected from erosion and skating by 2050. The bill, which is before us, will help to ensure that their work and efforts are not in vain, will bring very significant revenues to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as I sincerely hope to prevent and curb any thought of obtaining the personal benefit caused by the exploitation of other people's assets and by disrupting the complete ecosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37151	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37152	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Serbian citizens, the Honorable Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, are now ahead of us to amend and supplement the laws that are closer to regulating the area in forestry. Areas under the forests in Serbia cover 2,252,000 hectares, most of which are part, i.e. 53%, state-owned and 47% private-owned. The percentage of the population of the Republic of Serbia is currently around 29.1%). Most of the areas under the forests are located in central Serbia 37.6% of the forest, opposite the northern part of our country, i.e. AP Vojvodina, where it's only somewhere a little higher than 7%. The amendments and additions to the Law on Forests are complemented and the provisions of the current Forests Act are improved, and the context for which the deficiencies observed from 2010 to today are eliminated. The proposed amendments and additions to the Forest Act complement the definition of a forest that, apart from a five-ar area, introduces a minimum land coverage of 30% of the trees. The new Public Property Act of 2014, with regard to the right to use state forests, points to the provisions of a special law, which is precisely the Law on forests that we are discussing today, which has not been dealt with so far, and has been introduced into amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, in order to make tens of thousands of hectares of state forests owned, e.g. cooperatives, which no longer exist, etc., do not have adequate protection, thus obtaining a user whom the Government will appoint on a proposal from the restoring ministry. The law removes the scarcity of the previous Law on Forests, which neglects the existing state of affairs to manage public enterprises in certain cases, the founder of which is the units of local self-government, not the Government of the RS or the government of an autonomous province. In the same sense, forests in state property can also be owned by institutions, such as the Faculty of Forests and others that have managed these forests before the adoption of this law. A legal framework and procedures for the handling of natural disasters are established, since in recent accidents of flooding, gliding, ice-looping, fires have been detected that existing legal solutions do not allow adequate response. First of all, the notion of a natural disaster is defined and it allows adequate response and financing of the removal of consequences in the case of major natural disasters, and it is proposed that the obligation of owners and users of forests be released to pay compensation for the use of forests in these cases, because in such situations it is not possible to talk about the use of forests but about the extorted work on the recovery of surfaces. The recovery plan in cases of different forest damage, whether it be fires, slides, winds and snowfalls, replaces in the emergency situations of the base, mastering programmes and other planning documents, due to the need to intervene as soon as possible in the damaged forests. What is good is that the recovery plan is carried out within three months of the day the harmful fact ends, because it is extremely good to intervene as soon as possible on the damaged surfaces. While I have already mentioned the fee for the use of the forest, which is 5% for forest owners and 3% for forest users, which is a very important change in these amendments and additions to the existing law, where this percentage of 3% for forest users was from forest management. The forest management is a much wider concept than the use of forests, and therefore the fee for the use of forests paid for by the users was significantly higher. The advantage of this law and when calculating forest charges, where the value of the cut wood on the truck road is taken as a basis for the calculation, i.e. a temporary forest cargo lot. How important the problem of natural disasters is for forestry and the state of Serbia in general, the following data testify. It is widely known that in 2014 forest ecosystems were catastrophic. Serbia's forests are torn apart by unremembered floods and ice fractures. In May 2014, Serbia was hit by heavy and long-term rains that caused the spill of the Sava, Drina, Jadra, Morava, Kolubara, Mlava and Tamnave rivers, and in higher mountain areas there were floods and glides, leading to significant damage in the affected regions to forests and forest infrastructure on large areas. During the winter of 2014, an extremely cold air mass was penetrated from the east and from Karpat, conditioning the appearance of large ice deposits on infrastructure facilities and trees of forest trees. Under the weight of ice, in forest ecosystems, damages to the inexplicable proportions in the form of ice fractures and icy in the areas of much of eastern Serbia have occurred. The biggest damage was suffered by the forest owners Kučevo, Bolovac, Despotovac, Kruševac and Nis, which the minister also spoke of earlier. The new Forest Act introduces complementary provisions governing the possibility of clean cutting and renting forests and forest land, which enables solving accumulated problems in relation to the needs of other sectors for the use of forest land. A special accent has been placed on the reduction of illegal cuttings in the provisions defining transport and the control of wood in transport, as well as the jurisdiction of inspection and handling of courts in that part. The status of the forest keeper is defined as the official person. This law introduces the concept of a forest area, such as a spatial planland, a forest management plan for which the forest development plan covers forests of all property forms within forest areas and forests in national parks. A total of seven forest areas are established with defined forest areas and national parks entering their composition. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party, in voting day, will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37153	I thank my colleague Lukic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37154	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, a respected minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests has its standoffs in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 97, which I quote, "The Republic of Serbia provides a system of protection and improvement of the environment and protection and promotion of the plant and animal world," finished the quote. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests also stands in the exhibition of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to us, the MPs, in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. I note, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, not to forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic is the most transparent, most concrete, biggest, 52 densely knocked sides, the most accurate and best of all previous 72 exposés of the Serbian government, since the time of the first Prime Minister of modern Serbia, prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. On the page of the 31st exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, the government will work, among other things, and I quote, "maintained resource management and environmental protection", the quote concluded. Here it is in the exposé of the Prime Minister in writing, and today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments to the Law on the Forests, reached. That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing at the head with its president, and when it comes to laws, it's basically written, as you see in the exposé, done, as you see in this high house, the House of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's how it's going to be in the future. These amendments and additions to the Law will improve the current state of all forest functions in the Republic of Serbia. We'll agree to that, I hope, all of us. Not only that, these changes and additions will establish a unique system of forest management, and that may be the most important point in this bill. Dear Minister, it is good that this bill establishes a clear and unique system of forest management planning, which has not been the case so far. It is very well, honourable MPs, which will establish control and define the roles of forestry subjects by applying these amendments and supplementing the Forest Law. It is good that these amendments and additions to the Law on Forests will determine the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the cut-off tree for areas where the recovery of damage is carried out. Dear People’s MPs, it is very good to introduce provisions governing the lease of forests and forest land. It is great to reintroduce the obligation of documentation, so as an obligation to follow goods into transport, which is very important, all for the purpose of reducing the illegal cutting of forests. Dear Minister, it is very good that these changes and additions establish forest areas as the largest spatial mountainous continent of forest management. It is very good that forest management development plans will be put in place for them, because without these plans, we can hardly achieve the objectives outlined. It is very good, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which includes forest areas and forests in national parks, as you know, seven forest areas have been established. It is great that this proposal amending and supplementing the Forest Act gave the forest inspectors the authority to control the traffic of wood because their existing law, ladies and gentlemen, was the right to be taken away and given to a market inspection. I'm undermining that specifically, which didn't prove effective. It is excellent, ladies and gentlemen, to establish legal frameworks and procedures for handling natural disasters as we had last year, floods and slides, because existing legal solutions do not allow adequate action. This proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests eliminates the shortcomings of the current Law on Forests, in the end let me say, from 2010, of course, only perceived shortcomings because many members of the law of that time are good. I also note that these amendments and additions are in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia of 13.07.2012 concerning the powers of the AP Vojvodina in the field of forestry, which has been declared an unconstitutional provision of Article 18. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, that the AP Vojvodina governs forestry in the territory of the AP. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a modern, very good forest law. That is why I call on you, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, to vote for this bill in the day of voting, especially I call upon you, gentlemen of the People's MPs from a weak opposition, to give your vote for this law, because at least a little, even in this way, you will demonstrate your commitment to modernization of Serbia, which it advocates and not only advocates, but also implement so warmly our Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Government of Serbia, to assist the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, the largest number of MPs in this high house, as well as the largest, almost to say, the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37155	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37156	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a law on the agenda from a very important area that practically represents one of the essential resources that our country has, the resources of the forest, and I must say at the beginning of my presentation that I didn't think I would be able to say anything new about this subject after all these talks, which we could hear in this morning's and today's discussion. However, I want to point out a few things that may not have been mentioned so far. In fact, I had the opportunity to personally contact some representatives from other countries, specifically from Bulgaria, directly meet and talk about the problems that have been and the types of these problems we are looking at today. In fact, a MEP from Bulgaria gave me one fragrant piece of information, that despite all the European laws or... applied in that area of their country, something happened that we shouldn't allow in our country. It happened that Bulgaria, on a large surface of its mountains, was practically forest-free, that the large industry and large capital that came from abroad was only interested in cutting down forests, not taking into account, nor in coming across an adequate response from the state and state authorities, to taking care of the care of shaming or to practically keeping that rich resource that the country had preserved and restored. If that hadn't happened to us, we might have been lucky if we hadn't been subject to the interest of large multinational companies in that area in the past. However, the situation is changing so we too will come under, practically pounding, those who want one of this rich national resource that we have to use to achieve what they're only interested in, which is making a profit. With that in mind, I would like to point out a few things that are related to the action or operation of the state on the prevention of what happened to our neighbor, so that it would not happen to us, too, I would like to point out that indeed through the history and functioning of those who have dealt with this issue it was recorded that the foresters, as we popularly call them, were those people who were the keepers of everything that could be preserved on the ground, the forest keepers, the guards of practically the wealth that we had, but in the previous period, were not sufficiently concerned with the fact that these people who were on the ground on a daily basis, adequately considered to be well-trained, to be well equipped and to be given the possibility to be really adequate and quality of their work. Also, forest inspectors are, in my humble opinion, at least according to the data I have from the area I come from, which is the Pyrotic County, in short, and their powers aren't high enough for them to be able to deal with what they need to deal with. As far as I know, there's only one forest inspector in Pirot County, correct me if I'm wrong. You'll agree that for a surface covered by the Pyrotic County, it's not enough. And also, I want to point out that in the previous period this resource that we are bringing today and considering amendments and additions to the law has been very exposed to disasters, forest fires during the previous period. I have data that in forest fires from 2000 to 2009 more than 16 and a half thousand hectares of forest burned in Serbia, with damages of nearly 400m euros. It's a data that really worries, and as I said before, we in Pirote had big fires in 2007, 2009, 2012. In 2012 alone, over 100 hectares were burned. As I recall, in 2007, thanks to the assistance we received from Russia and the adequate participation of the aircraft special purpose "Ilešin 76" was a great fire that was then, which raged on the Old Mountain, was extinguished. All of this obliges us to do our utmost restrictively and carefully address problems in this area, so that we do not have greater damage by spreading or causing some fires in this area. Also, I want to point out a few things that have been noticed in those days. I was really surprised at the first moment until I really got closer to the provisions of this law, more specifically by the amendments to this law which allow public enterprises whose founder of the units of local self-government, which have managed the state forests until the law was passed, to manage these forests in the future, provided they meet the conditions laid down by the Law on Forests and Specific Regulations. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the local self-government really had to be under a lot of heat and control of the ministry, since I know of the Pirot example, that, let's say, the president of the Pirot Municipality in 2007, at the time of the biggest fire that was raging at our premises, had a lot of work to do because he had almost a month in the middle of that fire gone on vacation. So, there are many examples that can support the concern of those at the level of local self-government who have not been very interested in solving these problems, but the solution has been proposed in this law that only those local and public enterprises whose founder of the local self-government units, which have so far dealt with these problems, continue to deal with these problems under the control of the ministry. Also, all the provisions of these amendments and the addition of laws that are restrictive and which allow for an increase in the competence of those involved in the control of the transport of wood material, and in particular a provision returning mandatory documentation that monitors goods in transport is absolutely necessary and necessary to prevent all negative things in this area and to give the possibility to monitor the origin of wood in transport, because indeed a large number of people, who may be dealing with these things for social reasons, who provide bread, because they do not have another source of existence, have to deal with it, but we really have to make sure that our forest fund is protected and that we practically restore it adequately. Also, I want to point out that it was very restrictive to approach and that a very restrictive and well-accessed question of clean cutting forests, which, as you know, is one of the most dangerous types of cutting, because then when you peel the surface it's very difficult to restore it. It is good that this proposal changes the law very restrictively and this problem is one of the solutions that I would like to point out as very positive. Also, I must agree that it is necessary to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, which is a legal issue, because indeed the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry, which has been declared an unconstitutional provision of Article 18, is necessary and I would like to point out this is also one of the good solutions, the good aspects of this law, which should indeed be supported by all MPs, regardless of whether they are among MPs who support the parliamentary majority or the Government of the Republic of Serbia or those who are in opposition. For this reason, I point out once again that we will all support this good bill and I hope that in a good atmosphere we will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37157	Thank you. I hope so, too. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37158	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen fellow Members of the People, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia who follow our work today, are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Forests, whose aim is to overcome existing problems in the application of the existing Law on Forests of 2010. In my opinion, the aim of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Forests is to establish order in forest management, that in the greater degree of protection of our forest, because, as we have pointed out many times today, the forests are our great wealth, the great resource of Serbia. Forests are the lungs of our entire planet, they're an oxygen factory. Because of all this and how we need to put forth efforts in education, to change our minds, but certainly also to enhanced preventive measures. On the other hand, today the forests and how threatened, the ecosystem is threatened and, in view of all this, we know that this matter is of great importance. Today I will focus my exposure and, in my opinion, I will raise three important questions that bring us these amendments and additions to the Law on the Forests. First of all, in my opinion, it's certainly an illegal cutting, as my colleagues called stealing the forest and I would agree, but with that and the work of the inspection. The second question that I think is extremely important is the impact of natural disasters and forest protection. The third question I would raise is expertise in the field of forestry. After that, I will refer certain questions to the ministry's representatives. To take order, as far as illegal cutting or stealing forests and doing inspections, the problem is evident. He took the wave and broke out of control, as our people would say, because simply the existing mechanisms and measures in the existing forest law did not predict that we were facing this problem in the right way. It is good that these amendments and additions of the Law on Forests are precisely bringing these new measures to which, I hope and I am sure, we will overcome and at least to some extent be aware of the proper limit of illegal deforestation. Of course, inspections are also important because inspections control the implementation of all laws, including this one. With these amendments and additions to the law, republican inspectors have been given final authority to take appropriate measures to prevent illegal deforestation. But what I would particularly like to suggest on this occasion is that we have a small capacity for inspectors and inspectors. I'm just going to give you one example that's talking about it. At the level of two districts, the Goldibor County and the Moravia County, we have a very small number of inspectors. We simply need to make efforts to make them more and make their work much better. As far as the second question is concerned, it concerns the impact of elemental disasters and the protection of our forests. In recent years, and as we notice, there have been frequent natural disasters every year, and that is, I believe and I'm sure, the impact of climate change at all. Every year, not just one of them gets to us, but almost everything. As far as the forest is concerned, the impact of floods, gliders, fires, droughts is evident and I don't miss any of it. We've all been hit, but we've got to deal with these problems. The amendments to this law are precisely the measures that are good and are in favour. One of these measures I'll repeat myself, but what I'm going to have to hear, once again, is just the release of a taxi for a cut-off tree in the territory of those who have a recovery from the consequences of elementary disasters. On this occasion, I would point out another problem regarding the protection of our forests, a problem that is particularly expressed in the municipality from which I come, but not only about it, it is the municipality of Ivanica. In recent years, the drying of the Chetinari has been observed, which is a major problem today. Since it is protected in the municipality of Ivanica and Golia Mountains, which is a biosphere reserve, it is therefore protected, but this phenomenon is indeed causing great damage. The Ivanjica municipality is one of the largest territorial municipalities in Serbia, but not only that, it is also one of the richest forests, so the entire municipality is under the forest 60%, which is more than the average, and that is something we are aiming for. Of these forests, about 32,000 hectares are in state property, about 24,000 hectares are in private property, and about 500 hectares are owned by cooperatives, then schools and monasteries, I would mention the Kivilla monastery. In this area, there is an even greater control of experts in the field of forestry and in the area of cutting, as well as deforestation and everything else. The third question I raise today is professional work in the area of forestry. Of course, the profession in every area and this one should play a crucial role. In this sense, in these amendments and additions to the Law, we also have a good decision to make, which is to form a chamber of forestry engineers, which will deal primarily with professional issues, it will also make decisions on licensing, but not just licensing, but if someone does not meet the criteria that a natural licence can be taken away from him. It should not be a permanent state and a permanent right. I'm going to move on based on everything I've said to certain questions, I'm not asking, and it doesn't require precise answers, and I can be certain opinions alone. Here's number one, I'm asking -- is it possible, given the amount of inspection, to increase their capacity in some foreseeable time, because we know how important it is and how important it is? Number two - is it possible in some future to bring such measures and such a model that local self-government benefits more from exploiting the forest? Just one thought, maybe, if not the answer. That would also be so good for local self-government and their better functioning. The third question concerns this problem of the drought of the Chetinari – were the causes found, did a recovery program come up? I know, talking to colleagues who are experts in this area that this problem is simply under control, which is good anyway. The last question I want to raise, first of all, to the general public, and with the risk of going beyond the subject of this law, but in some respects forestry, it is a question that many citizens of my municipality of Ivanica, which concerns the return of the property of the forest and that of the communist law of 1948, is the Law on the declaration of pastures and urinals. It's simple for citizens to fight for their right to return to them. It is about some 20,000 hectares in Ivanjica, but it is not just about Ivanjica, but it is about many other municipalities, such as the municipalities of Leskovac, Kursumli, Medvedja, Tutin, Raška and others. They are fighting for the exercise of their rights, I must say that yesterday they had a correct and good conversation both in the government itself and in the cabinet of the Prime Minister that they have come to an understanding and that they will likely be at the opportunity of the next days, months to have certain conversations and that there will finally be a solution to this problem, to the general satisfaction of many citizens. In conclusion, somewhere like I started, I'm sure these changes and additions to the Forest Law will bring order to the forest-keeping industry, that we'll have a higher level of protection for our forests. In the end, in the day of voting, together with fellow Serbian Progressive Party MPs, I will support and vote in favour of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37159	Thank you. The word is by the minister of Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37160	Thank you. I would like to thank Parliamentarians Milosevic and all previous MPs for their really nice comments and for a good demonstration of our desire to realise through this law, and these are about improving the situation in the sector of forestry of the Republic of Serbia. There are concrete questions, and I will try to answer them specifically. You asked – is there any possibility of increasing the number of inspectors, i.e. the capacity of the inspection service? I have to say today we have 30 forest inspectors, we have eight more jobs systematized. However, the completion of these jobs that are systematised is not easy, given the Law on Employment, and it is not only a problem when it comes to forest inspection, but also when it comes to other inspections, veterinary, agricultural, phytosanitary. These are our real problems that we are facing, but I have to point out that although many are weakened, or reduced, these inspections are very present on the ground, they are simply trying to replace this personnel deficit, and I expect that in the coming period, from the next year we will be able to fill these empty places, simply to ensure better control, or better application of the law on the ground. So, I understand your question, we're in favour, and I hope that this problem is missing an inspector on the ground we can solve from next year. You asked for compensations, for exploiting the forest, for exploiting the forest to go towards local self-government. I must say that when it comes to fees whether it is a natural resource of the forest, whether it is water, any other natural resource, fees are charged and they are an integral part, that is, the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and yet you know that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is also a budget for local self-government. So, simply this mechanism has been established, I don't know that now that the Law on Local Self-Government or the Law on Compensation is being amended, there's no other way to establish this solution, or the issue of greater funding of local self-government, but it's simply not the subject of this law and it's not in our jurisdiction and in our jurisdiction. As for the drought, or drying of the forest, especially the drying of the fours that you pointed out, we are aware of this problem and we work simply, we are present on the ground, we are monitoring what is happening, we are trying to stop or at least reduce drying. This drying experts say it has been particularly intense since 2012, after those high droughts, high temperatures, but professional services follow and do what is possible, as the profession recognises and recommends in such cases. We, on the part of our Ministry and the Forest Administration, define the means to obtain these terramont traps, which are designed to reduce the number of harmful insects and thus try to keep this problem under control. Otherwise, it is a complex problem resulting from the operation of a large number of combined biological and abiotic factors. In any case, experts are there and I always point out and I want to praise the extraordinary co-operation with scientific institutions in this area in Serbia, but not only in Serbia but also in Europe and beyond, and of course, with the Faculty of Forests who are always with us who help us with expert advice and simply participate with us in monitoring and taking adequate measures and believe that we are doing everything we can and that we simply expect this process to slow down at least. This fourth question that you have asked is whether we can help and support, we certainly support all the legitimate requirements of the forest owner, but this issue is not in our jurisdiction, too, it's a question concerning the Ministry of Finance, so I guess they're also familiar with these field facilities and that they're working quickly to solve problems that are evident, which are piled up and that they really want to help these owners who expect them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37161	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37162	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Otherwise, let me inform you that my municipality has 15,000 acres under the forest, a little more stately, a little private forest, and we have before us a proposal for a forest law that clearly regulates the protection of the use of land, the preservation of the forest. The forest is a renewable natural resource that has different opportunities for use, conditioned by conditions of view and stage of development. Activities must take place in such a way that the needs of the present generations are met in a way that does not endanger future generations' ability to meet their needs. I support this bill because it regulates the preservation, protection of planning, cultivation and use of forests, the availability of forests and forest land. The positive provisions of this law apply to forests and forest land in all forms of property. I would like to commend the competent Ministry and the Forest Administration, because with this bill that enables adequate response and funding of the removal of consequences in the case of major natural disasters, it is a good thing to propose the release of users of forests to pay compensation for the use of forests in these cases, because in such situations it is not possible to talk about the use of forests. Forests, forest engineers and forest workers, as true conservationists of nature, conduct beside other jobs and protect the forest from fire. In the protection of the forest from fire, it is important to highlight three objectives, prevent forest fires, quickly detect them and shut them down quickly. We all know that just now my colleague Todorovic was talking about it, that in 2007, Srljjska Planina and the Stara Planina were caught by a great fire and then a great damage was done to both the forest and forest land in Nis. I was then in the municipality as vice president of the municipality where I actively participated with the gendarmes, with all the people of the municipality, with the police and with the army in the ceasefire. Then I saw what the forest meant and how it should be maintained, because I was involved in the fact that there were no access roads through the forest land, that they were in poor condition, and this law contributes to some improvements. Otherwise, the forest and this forest law is very important also because in the previous period, the law was not defined, the problem of forest and property, the jurisdiction over forests that were once cooperative forests and which some others used and went bankrupt. We've had a lot of cases like this, and we've just spoken on the board, where my colleague Milosevic said he had one piece in his municipality, over 100 acres that was illegally cut, just because no one over it had ever mastered it. The "Serbishum" could not control, the foresters had no jurisdiction, and now with this law we solve these things in the best way. It is very important that in this period, too, this law is passed, that safe roads be made through the woods, because every time through the woods they are provided in time, to reach the woods, to deforestation, to exploit forests, to protect against fires, to bring in a number of tourists to pick mushrooms, to pick medicinal plants, and therefore there is a great accent on all of us to make roads through the woods. As a representative of the municipality that I was until 2014, we had a lot of positive things about forests, because the forest is the source of life, the forest is very important about the very survival of our world, but we have big problems about deforestation. As I said earlier, in 2007, there were great fires, where there was a large area under the forest and it was destroyed, damaged and forest exploitation occurred. Since the exploitation of the forest, forest workers and the authorized company that makes the exploitation and distribution of the forest, it is also doing great damage to our villages, and this is true for my municipality where I come from, and this is the municipality of Svrljig, this is also true for surrounding municipalities, Književac, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and all municipalities in Serbia where the areas are under the forest, and there are plenty of them, and also the director of the Forest Administration, comes from a well-known municipality of Zagućica, as I have heard, which is already recognizable in the forest. There are great damages as I said when exploited and when the forest is driven especially on rural roads, roads leading to the village, access roads that our grandfathers have done, local self-government from their modest means, and heavy trucks passing by, there is real damage, on these forest roads, and therefore we have big problems and as local self-government, because we all know that these funds that come from this fee paid from forest fees, where certain funds are being returned to local self-government, these are very small funds, and with these means we have to sort of improve them, or we have to order these entities that work out these forests from these areas to drive these smaller trucks or ultimately local self-government along with the Traffic Administration, to solve it in the best way. We had problems that our locals from our villages blocked these roads, that they would not allow heavy trucks to pass, and then they had sanctions and problems precisely because these companies that were exporting these forests were written to report against them, and they were with them by the people of the "Serbishum" who looked at their interest, but did not look at the interest of our villages, our agricultural producers and all those who live in those territories of our municipalities. What else can I say about this law? I think the law is really good, I think I will support it as a folk MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, but chosen from the SNS list, because I see that this law gives strength and the possibility that those things that were bad in the previous law are now improving, the possibility of doing better and easier is being done. Finally, I would like to thank again all the MPs who will vote for this bill and for all the other laws that our Government is proposing with our Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, because I think all these laws will contribute to both our country and our agriculture and everything that is related to our village being much better and better than it has been so far. For the end, I would invite all people, whether they live in our villages, whether they live in the city, to be guided by that saying spoken by our poet, Jovan Jovanovic Dragon, "whereever you can plant the tree because it is noble and will reward you". I would once again ask you to pay attention to local self-government and once again say that I, an MP in front of the United Peasants' Party, and selected from the SNS list, will vote in favour of this law and any laws proposed by the Government headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37163	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is by Mrs. Minister, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37164	Thank Ambassador Miletic for this fine discussion and great support, and for this and for the previous laws that I have defended here before you, the MPs of the people. Just so we're clear on something, and for you, but also for the public. You're talking about forest roads. Forest roads are roads in forests, and these are roads that are in our jurisdiction, and we spend every year making significant means to help build forest roads. It's those assets that we're raising in the form of subsidies. This year we singled out 195 million dinars, just to build forest roads. Maybe it's good that our public and our forest owners know that they can compete for these funds, not individually but as a team, that they can get the means to build roads, because I know there must be plenty of places and mountain areas where forest roads are really necessary in the woods, and maybe our owners, our farmers, our citizens don't know about it. Your Honor, as soon as the truck gets out of the woods, he's already on a public road. This road is no longer in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and therefore the use of roads, i.e. the load of a truck carrying wood is now subject to the control and monitoring of traffic inspection, police and other bodies. So it's not our jurisdiction. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37165	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37166	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Marinkovic, the Honorable Minister with the Ministry's representatives, you know I'm not much of a flatterer, but for the first time I have to admit that you've done a good law. The old forest law was not protected. This time, you took protection and forests that weren't controlled by forest administrations, etc. Why am I saying this? Let me give you an example. On the territory of the municipality of Vladimirci, with a successful privatisation carried out in 2004, the combineds became the hands of people who had also received forests. They cut the forest in an area of 117 hectares into panels, with no convictions, no convictions whatsoever, and despite various reports, there were no interventions in that direction. I think this law allows you to react in time and prevent this kind of thing from happening. It is true that this law contributes most to the protection of the forest, as tens of thousands of hectares were unprotected. But it also enables other things – protection of forest pollution, transport of wood, and that is a very important thing. Here, people who only deal with the team appear in the villages. No leads, no hammers on the tree, no paper. The state didn't pick up anything from that. Now we have a chance for local self-government to get a share of the funds, as Milija Miletic said, that, if anything, to repair at least those access roads to the woods. I hope you get the strength to fully implement this law. I don't know if you have enough expert personnel. I guess you miss that, 'cause I think I heard about eight inspectors just missing this morning. You're probably gonna need more forest engineers and more forest engineers now. I think we're going to make this law a good way to increase the surface under the woods and protect the forest from further collapse. And as for bio-renewable energy sources, we can't go now to get all the forest remains out of the woods. It has to stay in the woods. The forest has to feed on something, so it's not too much to count on, but to plant new forest plantings, fast-growing for now, and I think it's the right way to provide renewable energy sources. I will be very happy to support this law, full of heart, and I hope that it will be respected to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37167	I thank my fellow Milosevic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37168	Thank you, MP, for the opportunity to say what kind of human resources we have, or what kind of professional staff we have at our disposal, what kind of chamber that cares about us now, when it comes to professional affairs in the woods. It's true that we have 30 forest inspectors and that's not enough and that we need more. But for this part about planning, bossing, professional work, we can be proud. My associates prepared me with information that when we take only engineers employed in "Serbiasumas", "Vojvodina Forests", in the national parks of Tara, Kopalnik, Fruška gora, Đerdap, Sarplanina, Borjak and forest engineers employed in the Ministry Forests Administration, there are over 820 of them. So 820 forestry engineers take care of these profession-related jobs, of proper planning, of mastering. Besides engineers, we have, like this all together, with employees of over 1.520 technicians. These are workers who are employed indefinitely and, of course, if necessary, whether they are specific areas or they are specific jobs, we also hire workers for a certain period of time. So this is certainly one significant potential, which gives us the right to believe that with this law and with our readiness today, everyone here together, for Serbia's forestry really goes better days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37169	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try my comments and remarks on the amendment and addition of the law to give through one metaphor, which says knowledge is to learn that tomato is fruit, and wisdom is not to put it in fruit salad. I will try through my criticism of the law to show where knowledge is seen in this law and where there was no wisdom, unfortunately. And that's why I don't give my vote for the law. The first thing that is inevitable to comment on is that the amendments and additions of this Law are expelled by the Assembly from the constructive process, from the strategy programme, etc. Article 12, which amends Article 19, states: “The National Assembly ” replaces the word“ Government. ” So, MPs now have a proposal, look at the changes and additions, and then possibly through the reports that the minister is going to file to the board of directors, they can ask what's going on in the woods, what's going on with the promised, what's going on with the plans, what happens in general, if that's under the obligation of the minister to report every three months. Otherwise, we won't discuss it anymore, until the new forest law. There is my comment that there is no dispute that the law is prepared with knowledge, I will tell you why, but it is not wise to throw the National Assembly out of this law. It's an obvious strategy and intent, I don't know how it's going to be with water, I don't know how it's going to be with environmental protection, but I have a hunch it's going to be similar. It's a bad message, it's a lack of wisdom. In various other areas, we can discuss whether or not the National Assembly should be present. In this one who is wise, there is no argument there. So, I'm clearly reading here – choice. Why are we talking about maybe having a new law, if we're going to change and supplement? Because in the amendments and additions to this law, we have 59 members. As we know, the single methodological rules of the National Assembly for Proposer mean that if it changes half or more than half, it needs a new law. So 121 members have a law that is in force, a proposal to amend and supplement 59. It's smart, and it's not wise, like a tomato case, to know it's fruit, but you don't put it in fruit salad. You just put it in a fruit salad. If you already intend, as you have brought, to change half the members, then pass a new law. What do you accomplish by doing that? You get to change the whole law so it's clear to everyone what kind of changes it is. You get a good impression of the government in the end. We have a new law because we want to change for the better. That's wise. This is just smart. What does this mean when it comes to the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government? Today I've had the opportunity to listen to both smart and wise people doing an analysis of how the state administration and civil society organisations co-operate. There is data for 2014 that the National Assembly adopted 351 acts and that only 37 acts, i.e. 10.5%, were held in public debate. Your law was held at a public hearing this summer. That's smart and wise. In 2014, she was neither smart nor wise. But the estimates I have for 2015 are that that percentage won't increase. What do you expect from those to whom the law applies, if only 10% of the total laws go through a public debate? Why are we doing this? It's not your ministry's problem, nor is it the government's problem. That's what all governments do. All governments have done this since 2001, on which I testify, either by being their opposition or by supporting them. It's not smart or wise. But it's obviously going to stay like the government's style of work. What does it mean when you exchange practically half of the law, staying within the framework of methodological rules, and when we don't get a clear answer to the question of what is changing for private forest owners, what is changing by harmonising with the Public Property Act for the forests of which the old state is? What changes for other woods? You can't tell from your law. I'll show you how you can't see it, because on just one of the examples that was in the debate here, which is that you're going to cancel the fee that anyone who cuts down a tree that's sick has to pay. It's not for no reason to bring it in. Your argument that they won't cut the sick wood, they should pay, it's not smart, it's not wise. I must share with you the assessment that there is now an epidemic of sick trees. That's why there was compensation, and that's why it had to be left with that fee, because there's always a reason and there's a fee to be imposed, so that there would be respect for the rules that the state considers good, in this case for the woods, and when you do, you have to have a very good explanation that would allow us to say – well, this has now changed for private owners, now they're no longer paying compensation. Paying compensation for those who run the woods, what remains unclear? What happens to picking mushrooms, forest fruits, wild fruits, whatever you want? Do you pay for it or do you not pay for it? Does it belong in the woods or does it not belong in the woods? Forests aren't trees. I'm a little sorry to hear about trees and trees here, because they're not forests. Anyone who deals with environmental protection knows they're not forests. So is there any new compensation if it's the use of the forest, if it's the boss of the woods? Does this mean both plants and plants that have no definition of trees, noises, cruelty and shades that it creates, but is on the territory of the forest? Why is it important for you to give the answer here quite clearly? It's because they've been amended and added to the law. In principle, I don't mind or paying compensation for mushroom pickers, forest fruits and anything else or not charging, but I'm against it being unclear to me. So how is it only for people who listen to this discussion of ours, trying to sit and listen to them say, "Okay, I have as many acres of forest, what's better for me now, what's worse for me? That's the point, it's wise, when you're a lawmaker, to explain to the people that the law will directly apply to what's changing there for them. It can change worse and it's the same lawmaking. There were such laws and there was likely to be, but here it should change for the better. What's even more important to be absolutely clear is, here in the debate we heard that now the budgets of local self-government are allowed to collect fees. They can if they want to. That's either not clear or we don't understand the Budgetary System Act, or we all think parafiscal fees can be made. And this is slippery, and it was slippery when we passed the Law on Forests, because we lack the law on fees and taxes, such as this unfortunate regulation, which reduced the dinar and foreign exchange diaries, introduced essentially a parafiscal charge of 10% for taxable parts above 15% for foreign diaries, and that no one told us in the Assembly what revenue would be from that new parafiscal intrusion. It may be wise for the interest group that she has assessed – now it will be great, everyone will love us, see how we can handle money, but it is not wise because you left people without income on which they usually have the right, when it comes to diaries, and private persons, entrepreneurs, corporations have charged the extra 10% of the fees, in fact taxes, I here deliberately mix compensation and taxes, because there are cases where it's very similar, which they have to pay for that daily, for an amount of more than 15%. In what way do you arrange what local self-government does if it collects from compensation? In the end, a brief comment on Serbia's deforestation, forest protection, forest use and forest policy. We will probably only have detailed discussions when the amendments and amendments or the new laws concerning Chapter 27 come into force. They'll have to so they'll have to come to the Assembly. It's smart to have them written by professional people, as they have written so far. It's wise to keep them at a wide public hearing, as wide as possible. It is wise to take advantage of all the other countries that have changed their legislation under Chapter 27, and it is wise to have a discussion through the Assembly as long as possible and as widely as possible about the laws that are yet to come, and one part of the forest will also be concerned. It's not a smart debate that has a tone of gossip. We are, unfortunately, inclined to describe problems by gossiping them and pretending that we do not know that the forests disappear by the fact of axes and testers and to pretend that we do not know that 30 forest inspectors will not be able to prevent what could not prevent in the schedule of thousands of market inspectors. I mean, we can pretend to be a cobajaga, we can describe -- yu, yu, how terrible, but it's not good for anyone. It ends in ten years from today, and maybe that's why I should have started this attempt to contribute with – with ladies and gentlemen respected children, because such a style of gossiping problems, rather than facing reality and strategy as these problems are solved, ends with these children measuring not 27% or 29% of the forest, but measuring 22%. It is, unfortunately, the price this kind of debate pays. For different levels of noise and for different levels of care for forests, compared to the entire territory of Serbia, it is a good thing you tried to demarcate areas. It might be smart, but it wasn't wise. I'm telling you the most well-intentioned. That part of the law shouldn't have changed. But it is your right to assess whether you are going to name these seven areas as you state them, and it is my duty to now announce that in the event that you need to change that part of the law, you will have my vote. Because then it'll be both smart and wise. In an area that remains, too, unclear, as well as what kinds of compensation you actually pay, how is it measured, whether you pay and compensation for harvesters of forest fruits, there is a decision that when I read the law on wind protection belts now by law no one cares. It's not smart or wise. Windscreens have a huge problem with us in Serbia. It's a process that is beneficial to all of us and no one will enter with very many different explanations and justifications, from not being able to do with a disaster, can't with a private plot, can't with a local self-government, can't with a forest administration, can't possibly, so when there's no one to guard the orchards, so some people don't know where they come from, from Mars, so they steal those seedlings. What's a direct consequence is that we don't have wind protection belts, that it wasn't well solved as a strategic goal in one of the regulations, and that instead of what we're offered, to really be solved, you've completely thrown the wind protection belts out of anyone's jurisdiction. Look at the surfaces, look at the total volume of the treetops. Whoever we call in this Assembly and ask – will there be windscreens on the bents, along the roads, on the salty land, in Banat, on the erosions, on the Old Mountain again, where erosion should be done, at the end of the retention, we will get an answer which is the worst possible answer that can be obtained, and which will read – that is not our jurisdiction. It's a common shame to me, and it was neither wise nor wise to do so. I wish I had made a mistake reading this and the bill of amendments and supplementing the law everywhere. I would really like to, but in a few readings I am absolutely certain that I am rightly giving you these remarks, with the request that, I repeat, the laws in the field of environmental protection and the area of agriculture, so not only 27, but 11, 12, be in public debate. Whoever tells you to let go of this, don't make any noise, don't think well of it. It is neither wise nor wise and that this public debate also has its own procedure within what is possible in the congregation. So, without an emergency procedure, with public hearings and enough time for anyone who obeys those laws to say what I mean by that law is better or worse for me. This is a point that represents the essence of European integration, and we stop lying to each other, stop gossiping about the problem, and start dealing with the problem as it is and as ugly as it is and how it is to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37171	The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37172	I would like to take a brief look at the remarks of the People's Parliament, Comic. First of all, there were more objections, I kind of grouped them into several groups. The first group of objections refers to the compensation for the wood cut. You said that by introducing the release of a number of owners or users we practically give an alibi that anyone can use this way, so anyone can call a damaged tree a diseased tree a tree that deserves to be cut without compensation. We have stated clearly and precisely in the law – payments are released to owners, i.e. users of forests that have suffered a natural disaster. In doing so, we explained what natural events are. We know what a flood is, what ice-loops are, what ice-skating is. Therefore, the individual trees in the chopping forests, which are ill or damaged, will not be subject to this scheme of exemption from the payment of fees. We have clearly pointed out that it is not our goal to reduce the revenue of the budget now, but our goal is that what has arisen as a result of natural disasters be, as soon as possible, remedied, that such trees are drawn out of the forest, that they simply are not the source or the crucible of the disease. We have made this clear in this law and it must not be and should not be misused, we will simply follow it in the field. As for the question of whether we are now introducing new fees, whether we are now breaking some legal solution into the pockets of our citizens, our forest owners, I must immediately say that we are absolutely in no way disrupting what has been so far. So the question of paying compensation for natural resources, in this case for forests, is a question that has been set by some other law and this is absolutely not changing. Also, it is determined by this other law, so the Law on Refunds, how these fees that are collected on the basis of the use of natural resources are allocated at this republican and local level, which is the distribution of 70:30%. So, wood fees, from using wood in the Republic budget 70%, to the local budget of 30%, and from these budgets again into the woods, whether through the forest roads, or for any other job in the forest, for protection, in the far line, from these insects, from pests, etc. You've asked another question, another fee, a fee for collecting mushrooms and forest fruits. I have to say, this is not the law we've been working on. These are the issues that have been settled by the Nature Protection Act and this is also the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget from which all those environmental jobs that we all keep mentioning, but not just jobs in the environment, but also jobs in forests, etc. You think it's not good that we replaced the forest areas with forest areas. Those forest areas were 32, and now we have seven forest areas. We've set up forest areas in forest areas for a number of reasons, and most of all for practical reasons. The previous law, which was passed in 2010 and which we are now changing, meant 32 forest areas. For each of these forest areas, a forest management plan should be prepared. I don't have to tell you, but believe me, all the forest areas haven't done this plan well. This has proved to be a massive mechanism that takes a lot of time, which costs a lot and does not show that uniqueness, or the level of strategically important documents that would be united at the level of our Ministry and Republic. I also have to tell you that such an organization of forest areas, so this new organization through the forest areas, has been supported by the expert public in the area of forestry. I have no doubt that exactly what my associates told me, and they told me that over the past years they organized a lot of these work meetings, presentations, the stands where they were discussed with a professional aspect of the justification of one or another model, and they took the view that this model is better at this point. So it's better for a lot of reasons, and one of the reasons that matters to us is that these plans are as high as possible, which is better and in the end line as cheap as possible. Our estimates are that we will save up to a billion dinars through this kind of organization and preparation of the planning documents in the coming years. You asked a question and why changes and additions to the law, why not a new law? We were really in a dilemma whether to go to a new law, because really long these changes and additions were made, they were long prepared, and we decided to go to changes and additions, not to save that public debate, because we had, therefore, a very large number of working meetings, stands, presentations, but also an official public debate. In the context of the official public debate, three large gatherings, which were indeed attended by the professional public, and interested users, I also have a list of all those participants, who are interested, and NGOs and Goran associations, etc., we simply didn't want to hide anything here, to get through anything. We wanted to get a quality proposal. All remarks and all suggestions we have listened to, and believe that this proposal is indeed the result of both professions and users and stakeholders etc. It's a matter of urgency. We decided to change and supplement them because it was a question of getting to this law as soon as possible, this bill, because some things on the ground simply couldn't wait for further delay. You know that only passing a new law requires a very long time. That was the reason. So it's an emergency. We said today, tens of thousands of hectares of state forest have no current users, no one to take care of them and take care of them. They're easy to conclude, on the target of the forest robbers, so those who are illegally cutting, we simply have to determine the users as soon as possible. We can do it after this law is passed. We'll propose to the Government of the Users. The government will adopt it and we will take care of those forests in one way. Of course, the question of when it comes to illegal cuttings, or stealing forests, not to use the exact term of theft, but in some cases it is also stealing, the question is also the necessity to get in the way as soon as possible. So there were several reasons why we decided to change and supplement. In doing so, I want to tell you that we were recently here in the Assembly 15 days ago with the National Parks Act, I hope that we will meet again very soon in early November when we have new laws in the area of agriculture. We've prepared a lot of laws. We've been worth it, but our ministry is big too, and we're expected to do so, but not a single law until now, since I've been head of this ministry has gone through an emergency procedure. All the laws followed those normal regular procedures. We've tried our best to animate everyone who's interested, all those who can help us, because we believe there's a lot of those who are well-intentioned and those who are willing to help us make our laws as good as possible. My goal is to keep this law going. Otherwise, I have to say that I'm happy, that I'm satisfied because as a minister I liked doing this forest law, as I defended the National Parks Act last time, it's for every minister who's in charge of these affairs absolutely great honor and great pleasure. The question of both forests and national parks, natural resources, is what is truly remarkable and valuable to me. I'm saying I'm happy and grateful that I came here to deal with these issues. At the end of the government's consent. Why the government's consent to the program, not the consent of the National Assembly. What I'm trying to say again is that I don't want to avoid the National Assembly from now on. On the contrary, we have spoken with the Messengers of the people, and We have agreed with them, and We offer to them our salvations, and they adopt. We also report to them on the work of our ministry. You know on boards, agriculture, environmental protection, for three months, for six months we deliver reports. So the National Assembly will certainly have the opportunity to follow this law. Now, what are we letting the government adopt the program? It is simply because the government is leading politics, among other things the government is leading and sectoral policy is also responsible for policy implementation. So don't think anyone here would want to diminish the importance of the MPs. On the contrary, it is you who listen, it is you who accept, or do not accept our suggestions. Programs are done by expert teams of people, meaning experts based on established plans, based on established strategies, planning documents, and I think there's nothing wrong with us trusting the government to adopt them both for efficiency and for speed and for the fact that the government is running a global policy and, of course, sectoral policy. Once again, I underline that we are always reporting to you, and you are the ones who certainly have the opportunity through committees and through parliamentary issues and in various other ways to point out what is good and what is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-21-0.u37173	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, let me just ask you on what basis did you answer? (Dear Shormaz, from the place: As authorized. You don't have any more time. You used 20 minutes. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. I am moving to item 6 of the agenda, Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the SPS. Does the National MP's representative, Nedjo Jovanovic, want a word? No, I don't. That the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Before I inform you of the follow-up, I want to thank you and I am sorry that the minister and the team has left the hall, and all the MPs of her team, for a very constructive atmosphere, an argumentable discussion, and to inform you that we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
