ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23221	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I ask that we listen first to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 181 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word has Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23222	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a question for Minister Kori Udovicki. Appreciateing her expertise and her biography, I think that enough personnel to engage in solving strategic tasks, as well as one that I will present to parliament today in the form of issues is one of those tasks ahead of us. The fact is that the SPO adopted the programme declaration on Serbia's decentralisation as early as 2007 and that this topic has long been in the programme terms on the agenda and that we have promoted the power of the arguments of this idea in parliament, here, for eight years. However, one bad thing happened, because our efforts to decentralisation were re-repeated several years ago by G17 plus, which was renamed URS, so one good idea was misexploited. We ask the minister if there is a strategy to develop the topic of decentralisation of Serbia? The Serbian Renewal Movement proposed that Serbia's territorial organisation rest in economic development. It is not enough, however, if municipalities do not become the primary cells of the administration of citizens who would be the owners of incomes, who achieve and who would decide on the development of their environments. In addition to property, building land, forest, municipalities would also be entitled to concessions, income from the lease of business space or from property tax on their territory. It's the closest Slovenian model to us. EU funds would be overly referred to in Serbia's most underdeveloped areas. As Europe insists on a balanced development within its Union and as it is taken into account to help less developed countries and areas from the funds, projects to revive the poorest parts of Serbia will be given priority in the financial injections coming from the west. In this way, we would stimulate the residents of Serbia's most remote and almost evicted parts to stay in their hearths. The village and agriculture engine are Serbia's recovery, and I hope we have the strength to cope as a state with the poor legacy of bad policies that took place in the 1990s, even after October 5th. The SPO and DHSS Parliament Club gives full support to significant steps in making the difficult but necessary decisions, in order to recover the state and hope that Minister Kori Udovici will understand our proposals and take them into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23223	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23224	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I asked a parliamentary question about the mandatory health insurance of farmers about a month ago, and I must say that I received a correct reply from the Ministry of Health. Now I'd like to continue on the subject and ask the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the PIO Fund. My question is specifically: why are agricultural pensions of farmers who have acquired the right to pensions in the same amount, no matter how many years these people have paid? Let me remind you, as well as other MPs, that a 15-year payment is mandatory. Why is it that someone living in a Serbian country now has the same pension if he's been paying 15 years, with someone who's been paying 25 years? This is also a question for the director of Serbia's PIO Fund. About this topic, I also have a question for the Ministry of Finance – why farmers who went into retirement who were missing until these mandatory 15 years to pay and get so-called. a tax administration reprogramme, that those 200 or 250,000 dinars could be paid by refusing to retire? This refusal may be up to a third of the pension. What, unfortunately, is happening to honourable citizens and fellow MPs in practice? It happens that people are receiving pensions and that their interest on the amount they owe to the state is greater than the war they pay and, unfortunately, after a year or two of their debts are greater than the basic amount they had when they retired. These are so many irregularities. And when I asked a parliamentary question about compulsory health insurance for farmers, I used the words that unfortunately because of these examples, farmers as citizens of the second order of Serbia. I ask you all to use your authority to change these things. I also have a third question about the minister of infrastructure, construction and urbanism. I would like the Minister to give me a clear and precise answer – how many employees are in the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic? How many employees have official cars? How many official cars did these cars cross miles in 2014? How much from the budget of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Urbanism has been paid in "The Roads of Serbia" based on tolls? I'd like to have a distinguished minister give me a clear and precise answer -- how many miles has been crossed and how much has been paid, that there is no longer one, I must say, unspeakable campaign against the MPs of the people. I am one of the MPs who is not in a working relationship with parliament and I have a full right, both morally and in any way you want, to ask the honourable minister, to stand down with these stories once and to see clearly how much her ministry is paying or not paying these tolls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23225	The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23226	Thank you, Madam President. I will ask a parliamentary question to Mr. Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister. I'm asking you, Madam President, that somehow you're coercing that we're getting answers to those questions. My case is such that most of my questions have not been answered by Mr. Vukic or by other ministers in the government that I've been asking questions about. I think it is necessary for the Government to make available to the National Assembly or MPs who are interested, and certainly make available to the public Serbia all information regarding Mr. Tony Blair's engagement as government advisers or in any other function that the government's decisions are intended and defined. Since we know that the Government has the right to hire and agencies, we ask you to provide information on all agencies, businesses, legal and physical persons for the consultation of each species that it has hired so far. This is extremely important because I was in this Assembly, and Mrs Comic also asked this same question on a written basis some time ago to the Government of the Republic of Serbia which I had never received an answer to, and it was the engagement of a lobbyist agency or a firm called Bell Pottinger, given that both on the European Commission website and on the website on which the registers of lobbying agencies were provided with information that the agency for the government of the Republic of Serbia was carrying out consulting tasks and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia or someone on its behalf paid 250 thousand euros. The government of the Republic of Serbia has denied it. She said she didn't have a contract with that agency. We, of course, know that there is no way that Aleksandar Vukic is not telling the truth about the case, we believed it, but then something happened, namely, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the signature of Aleksandar Vukic, invited certain companies and investors to come to something called "" in 2014. It was an event held in London, where, apart from Alexander Vukic, Minister Mihajlovic and other ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia appeared. My question then, which I didn't get an answer to, was it – if the government hadn't signed a contract with that agency, did anyone else on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia sign a contract with that agency? What's this guy doing that for? Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia filed criminal charges against that agency that abused and forged Alexander Vukic's signature, if neither the Government nor anyone on behalf of the Government has contracted with the agency? Since mine, Mrs Gojkovic, the experience from this hall last time was such that after me, MP Zoran Babic, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, appeared to be replicating to me in the time to ask his question, please do not make it possible now. You didn't chair the assembly at the time, and that's what happened. My question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the period from 2012 to 2015. I pray that the answer does not refer to the period until 2012, that there is no message in the answer – and you were even worse. I ask that my parliamentary question be answered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not by MPs in the National Assembly, abuse this time when there is no possibility of replicating or harming the Rules of Procedure, but that is the case, believe that many MPs would at this time report to answer or say their views on the questions that other MPs are asking. So my question concerns the engagement of Tony Blair, the involvement of other agencies, legal entities or businesses, and the reminder that I did not get an answer to the question I asked, it seems to me, even in July last year when it was a similar case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23227	Thank you. The word is Neven Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23228	Thank you, Your Honor. My question was addressed to the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Alexander Vulin. It concerns the position of parents of children with special needs. For many years these people have been trying to draw the authorities' attention to the unfair position they have, especially in comparison with those who have the status of care for these special children. I would first ask for a notice and ask – what is the classification used and what method of decision-making that has made a huge division between parents and carers? For those who are not referred to the subject, I will remind them that the carers have special support from the state in terms of monetary assistance and work experience, which is really necessary and necessary, given that these children require twenty-four hours of care. But I ask, why are biological parents excluded from this support system? I'm going to let myself say that the injustice these people feel on their shoulders, which is particularly distressing when we find out that a large number of these parents are just making single mothers. Single mothers, in themselves, make up one of the most vulnerable social groups in Serbia, and when we look back at this special group of single mothers whose children are those who suffer from severe diseases, children with special needs, we will realize, at least I hope, that it is necessary for us, as a state, to pay particular attention to them. We are all very well directed to what the labour market is like and it is almost impossible to create circumstances in which they would be able to work and that many of them can only dream of work when they have a child at home that is completely dependent on the care they provide as parents. I feel unworthy to talk about the problems and pains that parents go through, and I won't, because it's certain that someone would really know what it means to be a parent of a child with special needs must be in a similar situation, if not in the same situation. What's important is that these people are not alone, which they proved when they launched a petition to support the law, that their status is even with the status of the care provider, when they collected more than 60,000 citizens' signatures in just a few days. Today some of the representatives of parents came to this home, believing that they also have the support of these same citizens, came because they still believe in their institutions and believe in their own country despite everything. Therefore, I ask the Ministry to remove this case from the drawer together with this petition that has great legal weight and actively works on the hope that these people continue to put into their country not to turn another frustration of the unfairly treated group, because as a responsible state, we cannot allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23229	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Besarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my parliamentary question is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. In fact, starting from the premise that we want to develop tourism within Serbia's economic development, I would like to point to a catastrophic situation that has existed for years in the Divcibara tourist centre, a mountain that, from its 1,000 meters above sea level and 100km from Belgrade, has failed to interest decision-making centres and provide itself with any developmental opportunity over the past period. The centre of the tourist town of Divcibara, namely there is no street sewerage and all waste water with feces from the cottages are poured into the Kamenica river that flows through the very center of the town and represents, of course, a source of infection, an insufferable smell and an ugly look. The site passes an asphalt road which is a transit route to Požega, Valjevo or Belgrade, depending on the direction in which it is going, if it is full of holes, without sidewalks on the side, so that pedestrians must walk the asphalt road, call the asphalt road and thereby endanger personal security. For years, these two topics have been referred to as projects done to solve the banks of the Kamenica River and build sidewalks, but they see the geometers, they see the diameters, the plans, but nothing just keeps going on and on and on. The gas station that worked until a few years ago is closed, so now it has to go to Mionica, which is 30 kilometers away or Valjevo, which is 40 kilometers away. Furthermore, the pharmacy that also worked until a few years ago is now closed, so now instead of the pharmacy there is a half-empty room in a health station that works Wednesday afternoon. A few years ago, a project was done and a dedicated market building was built that was never opened. The building is finished and it looks very nice, the citizens are dedicated, but the building is set up by a private caterer who made it into a pub. The drinks are still on the ice without any sanitary conditions, on improvised gigs and cardboard boxes along the asphalt road. Healthy food, the ecological environment is thus compromised by human care, petty individual interests and corruption, the lack of involvement of competent institutions in Belgrade and Valjevo. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure – when will the projects of street sewers, sidewalks and markets be realized, implemented and made the beautiful mountain from dozens of hotels and pensions, numerous children's resorts and about 4,000 cottages begin to look like a civilized tourist resort and, of course, for the normal life of locals? Please, get me an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23231	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23232	I would like to thank the President. I'm asking two questions. I'll start from the first. The Zlatibor district is geographically by the configuration of the terrain mostly by the hill-mounted character, so that agricultural production is mainly achieved from the hilly areas of this region. In this direction, too, all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, did and did for this region. The government of the Republic of Serbia through the Ministry of Agriculture undoubtedly makes efforts to reactivate the agricultural resources of mountain-mounted areas, where all farmers naturally focus on livestock production. In view of the fact that no investment has been made in livestock production, and because of such a relationship with this area of agricultural production, livestock farming has been neglected for decades, and thus there has been a drastic decline of the livestock stock that is literally, we can say destroyed, in this sense locals and farmers of the hilly village of Krem, which is surrounded by the mountains of Tara, Zlatibor and other mountainous masses, want to devote themselves to livestock and livestock production and thus restore the reputation of the cattle land that the Kremna once had. Like all herdsmen in Serbia, cremators are also looking for the most efficient solutions related to the breeding of cattle in the main area. This raises the question of the Ministry of Agriculture is it possible to establish stable subsidies to livestock production in mountainous and mountainous areas even though cattle are not native? Also the question – is it possible to establish stable subsidies for natural meadows for the production of feed plants as well as artificial meadows and plantations under lucerca? It's a question that concerns the Ministry of Agriculture. The second question is raised by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications as well as the Ministry of Transport. Namely, the territory of the village of Kremna and Mokra Gora has become a significant tourist destination that attracts a large number of tourists from both the country and abroad. In addition to the famous Drvengrad, which is one of the most important tourist destinations, whose builder, creator, is the founder of our famous director Emir Kusturica, Kremna and Mokra Gora have another tourist destination, which is the "Sharganska 8ica". It's a railroad where the tourist train visits the most beautiful natural treasures this region gives. The people of Kreman and Wekre Gore express their satisfaction that two years ago, through the resort ministries, works were carried out in most of the construction of the Chargan-Kremna railway, which makes the tourist offer of this region one of the most attractive in Serbia. How is the coming spring and summer period as the period when tourists point to this area, the question is whether it is possible to complete the work as soon as possible to make tourist content even more recognizable and attractive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23233	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23234	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Members, I would like to ask the Government, or Madam President, that the Government and the Ministers to whom we refer these questions be more up-to-date in response. I asked a question a month ago about a loan to "Srbigas" for which I did not get an answer. I waited a month for the "Er Serbia" issue, and there are no answers for 15 days. It is good that I got that answer a few days ago, especially in light of the information that "Er Serbia" ended last year with a profit of 2.7m euros, as the director said. In response to the question asked by the government a month ago, it says that the government recommended that the airport "Nikola Tesla" write off a $17.6m debt "Er Serbia" for the expenses incurred in 2014, even though we listened here that it would not be when we adopted the Law on the acquisition of a debt of 73m euros at the end of last year. In fact, when we look at it, we see that "Er Serbia" did not have a plus, but did business with a minus, but that the minus is covered by not paying the obligations other airlines have to pay to Nikola Tesla airport, but good. I want to ask Minister Antic now, and I hope I don't have to wait a month. It is related to the business that agreed and agreed to buy coal for the “Nikola Tesla” Termopower Plant because of the floods we had in May last year and to replace the lack of coal, so that we do not have to import electricity, a decision has been made to buy coal. Apparently, the job is worth 60,000,000 euros, at 35.8 euros per tonne, as the minister once said here that the price is a ton of coal. I calculated that it was 1,700,000 tons of coal that we needed, which is what we, as far as I know, bought. I wonder if it is paid and how much total coal has been paid and imported into Serbia from Romania? The second question is, how far has it been unloaded? My information is that only 150,000 tonnes were unloaded on March 1st, so less than 10%. How long will it be unloaded in March? My information is that 400,000 will be unloaded in March. We are witnessing that winter is slowly stopping, the only reason citizens should hope for a longer winter is the fact that the increase in electricity will come when winter is over, as we've been told. Now the citizens are cheering that winter lasts until July, but I'm afraid it won't happen that winter will pass when it's time, in the next two weeks. What do we do with that amount of coal? That's one third of the agreed amount again, and I'm wondering if this contract will be extended for the next two years? I wonder how the company that built the coal unloading tapes from the port to the boilers got that job. Was it a tender? I wonder how much this job was paid? And I'm curious about when the water pump from the kopeter "The Dark One" will be completed? It was a promise that it would be over by the end of February. February was over three months ago. That didn't happen. Wasn't it because the company that got that job was unable to do so within the time limit and within what time period would they finish the job and pay for some penalties because the job didn't end on time? And I'm curious about when a full dig of coal will be set up from the copies of the Darkawa, and what are we going to do with that another million or over a million tons of coal we bought, or we didn't buy it, or should we buy it from Romania, and what are we going to do with that coal? Is this the money thrown out by Serbian citizens, and is this how all the savings the government wanted to make are cut by wages and pensions, and could have made more savings in places where there is room for savings, rather than taking money from citizens and pensioners and those who work in the state apparatus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23235	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic to give us answers on how the Elektroprivreda of Serbia was stolen for 500m euros? However, we have not yet received those answers, and Mirko Cvetkovic can no longer give them to us, and it seems to me that two thugs have put them in his pocket and that is Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, the 500m euros. It is the same government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who, I ask the question – is it true that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic hired a certain lobbyist agency in the United States to pay a million euros to lobby for Serbian interest? I'm interested in what kind of Serbian interests, especially when it comes to KIM? Given that the owner of the agency is a certain Albanian named Scip Osman, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, that is, the president of the Republic of Serbia, who are members of the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic, has hired Scip Osmani to lobby in the US administration for the interests of Serbia in Kosovo, am I asking the question, and is their health condition also what? I'm also asking if a public procurement procedure has been carried out. And if it isn't the agency's reference in the U.S. that we give her a million dollars of Serbian citizens? The third question, if it is true that the agency was engaged, what were the effects of Serbia on its lobbying? I would also like to ask the Central Bank, or the governor, would Serbia spend 4.5 billion foreign exchange reserves in the period from 2008 to 2012 on the preservation of a dinar course that we did not preserve and that jumped from 80 to 120 dinars in that period? Also, I am asking the Central Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia which were the consequences of cancelling the Treaty with the IMF in February 2012, because the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, or Boris Tadic, the president of the Democratic Party, was not allowed to implement a programme she accepted with the IMF, so that they could not be defeated in the elections. None of us politicians' fate in political terms is important and cannot be more important than the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state. That's why we've been going through it in the past, not to talk about some others hiding and pushing under the carpet true financial reports, which are now being presented as independent. And the third question to the Central Bank – how and what impact on the financial market is the signing of a contract with the IMF, in the first sense on future loans that we will have to borrow to pay for the expensive loans raised by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, or by the government of Boris Tadic, the president of the Democratic Party and how it reflects on the course of the dinar, because I have heard here for the past few days that many are concerned about the course, which has recently returned to that period in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23237	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Nenad Milosavljevic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Suzana Spasojevic and Olgica Batic. You were presented with records of the Fifth and Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative, Budget and Immunity Affairs, it has been established in that committee that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 30 January and 2 February and 3 February 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, no one, with abstentions, voted 48 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 10 and 12 February 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 49 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judge's office is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, no one, with abstentions, voted 48 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The DS parliamentary group has proposed that the draft decision amending the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 35 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed to put on the agenda a summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National High Education Council. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstention – voted 37 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, voted 42 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, voted 42 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Integrated Prevention and Control Act on environment pollution be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, voted 42 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi suggested that the motion for a resolution to resolve the status of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The New Serbia parliamentary group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – voted 46 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – voted 34 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 12 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, the ZS proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 12 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, the ZS proposed that the draft law supplementing the NBS law be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 12 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, the ZS proposed that, in an emergency procedure, the draft law on special conditions and how the obligations of residents of residential loans with the currency clause in CHF – the Swiss franc, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft amendment decision and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – voted 34 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23238	Thank you, Madam President. So it's a proposal to amend the Criminal Code. My proposal for a change is extremely simple. Namely, I suggest you be a member of 108. The criminal code is amended in such a way that crimes that do not go out of date, where war crimes are currently committed, crimes against humanity, etc., are included and criminal acts provided for in Articles 388 and 389. Criminal code. It's about human trafficking and, above all, child trafficking. That's just the famous Baby Law. In fact, there is a working group that has prepared a whole new law that the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying for some reason not to bring or avoid bringing. All the deadlines in that case are over. The Republic of Serbia was sentenced last year before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. She was ordered to provide compensation for the parents of missing babies by September 9th of this year, and there are few such children. This Association of Parents believes that in the past 40 years, as many as 10,000 babies have disappeared in the Republic of Serbia, and the parents of those children believe that the minister of justice and the minister of police for some reason are obstructing the adoption of this law and that the current police minister did so even at the time he was president of this Assembly and was acting as chairman of the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, so that this proposal is to make those criminal delinquents a single interstep to the adoption of the law. As I said, a group of these parents is with the help of a group whose head was Professor. Vesna Rakic Vednelic, prepared a whole proposal for a new law. The government is trying for some reason to avoid his adoption, but we MPs can help these people. I can only ask MPs not to be the same as Zoe's law, not to say no six times to this initiative, so that when someone from the government winks, we decide to accept it and that each of the MPs will now consider why they will not vote, unless they will vote, that the crimes of child theft should not be classified into crimes that do not become obsolete. I don't know how else to appeal to MPs, except to decide whether or not to press this button. There are several crimes that don't get old. My proposal is also a proposal from these parents, because this is not a bill that came from me, that crimes that don't go out of date and the crimes of child trafficking for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23239	In the O.R., there's no one in the IT sector, as usual, to see what's going on with the time indicator, so I'd like professional services to come and help us run the session properly. I don't know what you've been throwing, but if I'm playing harder, then we show up at the newspaper on the front page, so watch. I ask that MPs be made aware of your proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also proposed to include in the agenda a draft law on special conditions and method of settlement of the obligations of residents of residential loans with a currency clause in Swiss francs. However, I remind you that the National Assembly has just voted not to accept that this bill is being considered by an emergency procedure, and it can be included in the agenda within no less than 15 days of the date of its submission. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Before I give you my word, honourable Members of Parliament, let me welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of my own behalf, Parliamentarians of the Conference of the Women's Parliamentary Network – Equal and Powerful, we are together stronger, which are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23240	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in agreement with colleagues from my parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, I have submitted a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The essence of this supplement is that in Article 20 after point 16a, point 16a is added, which reads: “It arranges and provides for the scholarship of students and students.” The basis for this law is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that is stated in the reasoning. I'm going to say something about the reasons why I proposed this addition to the Law on Local Self-Government. Namely, the Law on Local Self-Government was passed in 2007. At that time, local self-government was not intended to perform the tasks of scholarship of students and students, because there was a concept of scholarship and stimulation of students and students to create conditions for learning, for work, for perfecting and for achieving the best results. The ruling coalition, which has not deliberately managed Serbia for the third year, has not realised almost anything since its strong promises and reforms. There's a catastrophic situation in education. Educational workers and students and students and students and strikes have been dissatisfied for a long time. Young people are less and less able to school, and those who manage to finish schools leave Serbia and leave in search of better conditions for life. There are no significant effects in the area of scholarship and stimulation of students and students. It is a crisis, but the government is unable to fill the budget. She didn't get a good estimate of where they could be saved. Nothing has been done on the tax administration reform to enable tax collection from the largest taxpayers, and according to the tax administration itself, the biggest taxpayers are the richest people in Serbia. It has defined itself as a reduction in wages and pensions, which has also made it even more difficult for parents who are training students and students to provide them with the necessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23241	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23242	To allow local self-governments to take over this, we have proposed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23243	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23244	Respected citizens and respected citizens of Serbia, dear guests, the 10th time MP Pavicevic and I propose a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The reason is clear to all, because in the past few years Serbia has become a state where plagiarized diplomas and titles are a very common phenomenon especially at the top of government, both local and state authorities. We have at least a few ministers, directors of public enterprises and many other people who are in public functions who are undoubtedly accused of having plagiarized diplomas. That is why it is necessary for this area to be settled, and because I am the minister in my statement last September, he said he was unable to do it himself. Ambassador Pavicevic and I promised him that within 15 days, he would receive the draft law, which he received on 26 September, as well as all MPs in this parliament, which introduces Serbian legislative and living practice academic integrity. Namely, Article 2 of this Act suggests adding the name of Article 5a, which reads – academic integrity, and that Article 5a reads – academic integrity is based on the independent production of written works, as well as strict respect for other people's copyrights. Of course this is meant in a civilized world, but, of course, in a civilized world, it is necessary to put what is meant into some standard, so here, for the tenth time, I put this together with my colleague Pavicevic for a decision in this high house. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, the European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee adopted a motion for a resolution on Serbia, which will be in front of parliament in about a month and a half. There is an assessment of the situation in many areas. Under point 39, there was an assessment of the situation in the area of higher education, i.e. in the area of plagiarism, and it says – the European Parliament is concerned that academic institutions, along with state authorities and public officials, could not face allegations of plagiarism at universities. Today, it is an opportunity to protect Serbia from further disgrace and shame that this phenomenon is causing our country, especially those young people who are seriously doing their job of studying and who are now under great suspicion because of the muggings in the ranks of the current government. So I suggest you adopt this proposal, put it on the agenda, for happiness and for the good future of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23245	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 153 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on freedom of fear, which was submitted by a group of 19 MPs to the National Assembly on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 159 of the total of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic group submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. I remind you that we have just voted not to accept this proposal and this law will not be considered by emergency procedure and cannot be included in the agenda within no shorter than 15 days of the day of its submission. Also, the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Same situation. We have just voted not to accept that this proposal is being considered by emergency procedure and cannot be included in the agenda within not less than 15 days. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157 of Item 2, Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out: - a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chemicals, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biocidal Products, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, submitted by the Government on 2 February 2015; - a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Review of the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Environment, Proposal for a Protocol on Sustainable Management of the Forests under the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Charter of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for the Charter of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for the Review of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union, the European Union, the Treaty on the European Union, the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the European Economicity of the Council, the Council, the European Council, the European Parliament for the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament for the Council, the European Parliament for the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Does the MP Dr Branislav Blazic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 38 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 41 of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on cooperation in the veterinary field, 7. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic and National Algerian Republic in the area of animal health, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection, 9. Summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National High Education Council, 10. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office, 11. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office, 12. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office, 13. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 14. A Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 15. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 16. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 17. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 18. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Stana Bozovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Zoran Ibrović, Head of the Department for Harmonization of Regulations at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Nada Lukacevic, Head of the Department for Integration and Control of Environment Prevention at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and Sonja Roglić, Head of the Department of Chemicals at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points 1. 2nd and 3rd total debate time in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. Does the representative of Professor Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23246	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, it has been my honor to welcome, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, the MPs at the first regular session of the spring session. It's a great pleasure to be able to explain to you today a set of environmental laws prepared by the Ministry itself. I would like to remind myself that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has, to date, had a very intense legislative activity aimed at creating a coherent and quality framework for the development of agriculture and environmental protection. In the past ten months, this ministry has submitted over 20 acts to parliament for consideration, including the three laws we are discussing today. Dear People's MPs, you have before you a set of laws amending and supplementing laws that regulate extremely important issues in the field of environmental protection. Although it is only about changes, they are of multiple importance to round up the areas of governance of chemicals and biocidal products, especially in the area of integrated environmental protection. The year behind us has been extremely difficult when it comes to protecting the environment. By taking over this resistor, we have also taken over many of the problems that have arisen for years, and we can say decades ago. Many will say that protecting the environment is a privilege of rich and developed countries. I wouldn't agree with that. I'll say that protecting the environment is our generation's privilege for generations to come. We are all obliged to leave our children and grandchildren with a better and healthier Serbia. With that goal, my team and I have approached this task that is more important than ourselves. From the moment of the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, we have devoted ourselves to establishing a comprehensive system in this area. I hope we've managed to lay solid groundwork. Let me remind you that, in the years behind us, the area of environmental protection has been divided into two resistors. One part belonged to the former Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, and another to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning. These two parts were supposed to be connected into one resistor. Today, ten months from the formation of this ministry, we have one functionally sustainable and rounded continent of environmental protection. With the same talent and energy that I came up with the challenges facing Serbian agriculture, I also came up with the challenges of protecting the environment facing our country. These challenges are not a bit easy and simple, and this area is one of the most complex areas on the way to our country's European integration. This is an area that touches, not only our ministry, but also the competences of many other ministries, because, as you know, the environment knows not about borders and competences, because the factors of environmental destruction are multiple. It is clear that the area of environmental protection is an area of great cost, but this is also an area that can be one of our country's greatest development potentials. I sincerely hope and believe that by common forces we will succeed in creating a developmental chance for generations to come from environmental protection. Serbia can be an ecological state, in the right sense of the word, and a leader in the region when it comes to a healthy human environment. Examples of well-organized ecological states in the world have a lot to offer. Most of these countries are located on our continent and on the European family of the people that our country is seeking. On the way to this goal, we must enter our legal system to integrate examples of good practice and good legal solutions that have been reached by those who have come this way before us. For this reason, today, before you, honourable MPs, there are amendments and additions to these three extremely important laws – the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chemicals, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biocidal Products and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. First of all, I'd like to refer to the Chemical Act. This law was passed in 2009 and introduced in a new way a single management of chemicals in the Republic of Serbia. This kind of management is in line with EU rules and ensures a high level of protection of human health and the environment and improves free transport of chemicals with other countries. This law has been particularly praised by the European Commission during bilateral screening for Chapter 27. The amendments to the Chemical Act, which took place in 2012, abolished the Chemicals Agency and suspended the compensation for the authorisation and all administrative acts in the field of chemical management. Instead of compensation, fees were to be imposed which, on the one hand, constitute the introduction of a new budgetary income, i.e. a new form of cost collection, administrative, administrative and services provided by the ministry of the ministry of reference to legal persons involved in the production, transport and use of chemicals. Only symbolic administrative fees of 480 dinars have been charged since the suspension of the compensation in 2012, as this legal gap is not immediately filled. It was therefore necessary to bring the Chemical Act in line with the Budgetary System Act, which refers to the revision of fees and taxis in special laws, including the Chemical Act. That's why we're dealing with these amendments to the Chemical Act. That is what Article 17 obliges us to do. The law on the budgetary system which stipulates that fees can only be introduced by a law which can prescribe their height or can be given by that law to a specific entity to determine their height. Starting with this obligation, this law introduces fees for the most complex procedures implemented under the Chemical Law, which do not have an economic justification for their funding to fall on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, a new legal model is introduced whereby the cost of obtaining administrative acts and taxi approvals will be paid by legal persons involved in the production, import and transport of chemicals. It's logical that the cost is borne by one who makes a profit out of the production and transport of chemicals. These are the experiences and good practice of many EU members, so one of the objectives of adopting this law is to comply with the relevant EU rules. The law regulates, above all, the basis for the collection of fees for the management of chemicals, while the very height of the taxi will be prescribed by a special act of the Government, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, in whose jurisdiction is the administrative aspect of chemical management. Therefore, the issue of administrative acts, but also the provision of conditions for effective inspection of chemical management at all stages of production, storage, transport and use of chemicals in our country. Also, besides this, we have proposed amendments and additions to the laws, guided by the experience of so far applying the law and what was happening on the ground. We wanted to improve the solutions relating to inspections, to clearly specify the competences of the different sectors of inspection, sanitary, market and environmental protection inspections, to carry out inspection controls on the implementation of the Chemical Law. The proposed division of the jurisdiction of inspections is also the most significant newspaper introduced by the proposal for this law. The current legal solutions did not fully distinguish the jurisdiction of environmental inspection, sanitary inspection and market inspection in the exercise of inspection controls on chemical management. All of this, our inspections are made up of different ministries, we should have received a joint inspection of chemical management under the new law. Therefore, joint inspection supervision, three ministries, the agriculture ministry, the health ministry and the Ministry of Transport, i.e. trade, these three ministries were to educate a tripartite agreement by a special joint body in accordance with the regulations governing the state administration, which is provided for in Article 88. The chemical law. However, the practice of this institute has not produced the desired effect, precisely because of the lack of precise division of competence. It has been shown that because of the wide range of areas and the complexity of inspection controls in chemical areas, this body was essentially unable to live. It only met once to form. According to the current situation, it is realistic that the environmental and sanitary and market inspectors will also review the same economic operator, on the same issue and lead three administrative procedures. This, not only represents a conflict of jurisdiction, but it is also economically invaluable. We have come to the conclusion that the existing system is unsustainable and that it is necessary by law to define each inspection, the jurisdiction of each inspection, rather than leaving it to agree on three of those ministries. We consider much better solutions proposed by these amendments to the Chemical Act, as a clear division of competence will allow the control of the implementation of the Chemical Law to be more effective and meaningful, and the objectives of the control of chemical management are more feasible, especially by relying on existing frameworks of inspection competences. Namely, sanitary inspectors, in accordance with their competences, already exercise sanitary control of the case intended for general use, so that the control of legal prohibitions and restrictions under this proposal will be a natural trace of existing controls. In this way, the most comprehensive use of existing resources and the great experience of sanitary inspectors in this area will be made. Also, market inspectors, in accordance with their competences, are already controlling retail facilities, so that this law sets out the obligations to control compliance with the conditions for holding dangerous chemicals in the sales space and the way in which that space is marked will be included in the already existing controls. Other controls under the Chemical Act would be carried out by environmental inspectors. These are, above all, inspection controls on classification, packaging, labelling and advertising of chemicals, content and delivery of a safety list, providing chemical advisors. Following that, the control of the entry of chemicals into the chemical register, placing on the market, particularly dangerous chemicals and detergents, imports and exports of certain dangerous chemicals and the implementation of other provisions of the Chemical Act which are not in the jurisdiction of the sanitary or market inspector. Environmental protection inspectors, according to the competences proposed by this legislative solution, will have the highest obligation, and such inspection supervision must be meaningful, effective and economically more cost-effective with lower budget costs. Because of that, this solution is more quality. For several reasons, and primarily as various acts adopted under this law are adopted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This means that environmental inspectors are the easiest to access the necessary documentation. On the other hand, the largest number of reviews are carried out by large companies, large plants of the chemical industry, factories, importers, producers etc. with whose control environmental inspectors already have experience in controlling the implementation of other regulations in the field of environmental protection. We believe that the proposed amendments to the Chemical Act will allow responsible and efficient management of chemicals, both by legal persons involved in the production, import, storage and sale of chemicals, and by our ministry and inspection bodies responsible for the control of all procedures and procedures. Dear People's MPs, the second draft law that is before you today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. The application of the Biocidal Products Act also introduced a single system of placing on the market and use of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This system has been introduced in the process of bringing domestic legislation into line with EU rules and ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, as well as improving the free movement of biocidal products with EU and other countries. The aim of the adoption of this law is to bring this law into line with the Chemical Act, with the Budgetary System Act, with relevant EU regulations. As with the amendments to the Chemical Act, so here we have the obligation to regulate the basis for charging taxis, for managing biocidal products. Special obligations are the legal provision of conditions for effective inspection of the management of biocidal products. The binding law on biocidal products, among other things certain matters of the state administration relating to the management of biocidal products, entrusted to the chemical agency. However, the amendments to the Chemical Act, adopted in 2012, have abolished the chemical agency. Its responsibilities as part of chemical management were assumed first by the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, and then by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. However, the basic Biocidal Products Act continued as the authority responsible for handling remained a defined Chemicals Agency, so that a formal legal problem arose in law enforcement. It was therefore necessary to harmonise the solutions to these two laws in the work concerning the termination of the work of the Chemical Agency. Also, as is the case with the Chemical Act and the basic Biocidal Products Act, it is not in line with the new Budget System Act. The decisions provided for in this law refer to the revision of fees and fees under specific laws, including the Biocidal Products Act. In addition, the applicable Biocidal Products Act as well as the Chemical Act does not distinguish the jurisdiction of environmental inspection, sanitary inspection and market inspection in the conduct of inspection controls on the management of biocidal products. The proposed amendments and additions shall specify the competences of the different sectors of inspection, sanitary, market and environmental protection inspections and introduce additional inspection, veterinary inspection to carry out inspection of the implementation of the Biocidal Products Act. The same situation that we had in the application of the Chemical Act, when it comes to inspection control, also occurs in the application of the Biocidal Products Act. The demarcation of the jurisdiction of four inspections shall ensure a clear division of jurisdiction, i.e. the authority of the inspector in carrying out inspection controls. The supervision of the application of this law and the rules adopted pursuant to it shall be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection through environmental inspectors. The Ministry of Health Affairs shall carry out inspections on the use of biocidal products in facilities and works that are in accordance with existing regulations, under sanitary supervision, i.e. in the case of professional users using biocidal products to perform registered activities, except for the use of biocidal products in facilities where veterinary activity is carried out in accordance with specific rules. The veterinary inspector shall monitor the use of biocidal products by professional users using biocidal products to perform the registered veterinary activity, as well as in areas, facilities and activities under veterinary supervision. The proposed competences will be a natural trace of existing controls to sanitary and veterinary inspectors. We believe that this will also make the most of the experience of sanitary and veterinary inspectors. The ministry responsible for trade operations through market inspectors will carry out inspection of compliance with the conditions for holding a dangerous biocidal product in the sales space and the way in which that space is marked. Market inspectors, in accordance with their competences, are already in control of retail facilities, so that the control of compliance with the conditions for holding a dangerous biocidal product in the sales space and the method of marking that space will already fit into the already existing controls. Other controls under the Biocidal Products Act would be carried out by environmental inspectors as is the case in the implementation of the Chemical Act. Amendments to these two laws follow each other and thus the legislative framework, i.e. the governance system and chemicals and biocidal products, is rounded up. We consider these laws extremely important from the aspect of the comprehensive protection of the environment against possible abuses that can cause unprofessional management and inadequate control of the management of chemicals and biocides. The last but not least important bill is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. The law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, adopted in 2014, regulates the conditions and procedure of issuing an integrated permit for installations and activities that can have a negative impact on human health, the environment or material goods. In other words, all important issues are regulated in order to prevent and control environmental pollution. The reason for proposing amendments and supplementing this law is to ensure the consistency of certain legislative solutions with the application in practice, and to prevent the threat and pollution of the environment and control of possible pollution and contaminants. The content of the proposed amendments and additions to this law is to comply with the provisions of the laws relating to the start of work of the facility which are obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation under the Law on Planning and Construction, in order to allow continuity in the operation of the plant. For example, the amendments to the law specify cases where a new facility can start working and before obtaining an integrated permit, or after a trial, and for a maximum period of 240 days. To specify the subsequent application of the General Administrative Procedure Act to questions of initiation, conduct and completion of an integrated authorisation procedure which is not governed by this law, it shall allow operators to submit an orderly request for the acquisition of an integrated authorisation. On the basis of the Integrated Prevention and Environmental Control Act, operators of the plant subject to the issue of an integrated authorisation, subject to an application for the issue, shall be subject to appropriate documentation, part of which shall include the results of the measurement of the pollution of environmental factors or other parameters during the duration of the test work, as well as the report on the latest technical review. This means that plant operators can submit an orderly application only after the test work has been completed i.e. obtaining the applicable permits. In order for plants to start working, they must also have an integrated license for which it takes 240 more days. In order for plants to be able to proceed uninterrupted after the test work of obtaining integrated licences, if the results of the measurement of environmental pollutants are positive during the duration of the test work in accordance with the prescribed, permitted values and if the last technical review report is positive, this change is proposed in the law in order to overcome this period of time. In this way, a negative economic effect on the work of the mentioned plants would also be removed. Ensuring the competent authority an appropriate degree of resolution dynamics under the submitted requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation, i.e. facilities for which the Republic of Serbia will negotiate transitional periods for the EU. The amendments to the law specify the dynamics of the issue of an integrated authorisation which provides the competent authority with the possibility of issuing an integrated authorisation for installations and activities by 31 December 2020 at the latest. Taking into account the dynamics of the issue of integrated licences, as well as the process, the complexity and practice of the issue of integrated licences is foreseen by the competent authority to issue an integrated authorisation by 31 December 2020 at the latest. This extension will allow operators to submit an orderly application for an integrated authorisation, and also time for competent authorities to issue applications for applications, given that only a full application under the law can enter into the official authorisation procedure. The longer term for issuing an integrated permit, in particular the transition period for existing facilities to comply with the general conditions, is justified after obtaining the status of Serbia's candidate for EU membership. Dear People's MPs, I believe that the proposed amendments to these three important laws will receive your support, so that we can implement them, or apply them in practice in a shorter period of time, with the expected development and economic effect. Finally, let me add that the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection will also propose five laws on the ratification of extremely significant international agreements in the field of environmental and agricultural protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23247	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr. Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23248	A respected minister with associates, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, the Law on Chemicals, the Law on Biocidal Products and the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution. It is not necessary to say much to point out the exceptional importance of these topics and certainly in the Single Serbia Parliament Group's voting day will support the proposed legislation. At the very beginning, speaking of the proposal for a chemical law, it should be said that chemicals do not know the limits and must be controlled. I said the utmost importance of this subject, and why am I saying all this? First, chemicals and products containing chemicals represent the necessity of modern life. Chemicals are found in almost all products, clothes, clothes, toys, mobile phones, furniture, credit cards, not to mention, the list would be very long. They're practically everywhere in our system, entering through food, water, inhaling dust, gas, particles from the air. The World Health Organization warns that research has established a clear link between human exposure, especially children with chemicals and daily consumption and an increase in the number of different types of disease, including cancerous diseases, congenital deformities, asthma and others. That chemicals do not know the limits, it should be said that the chemical industry is one of the fastest growing in the world. At this point, it is estimated to make up as much as 10% of the world's economy. So, from the Long World War to today, the amount of chemicals in use has increased by as much as 500 times, from a million tonnes to as many as 500 million tons a year. Today, there is really no country in the world that can be praised for having a completely safe and regulated market in chemicals and chemicals-containing products. Therefore, it is not rare to appeal that the use and transport of chemicals must be controlled. Also, the absence of a chemical safety management system can cause major economic losses for one country, including full costs for health care, social protection, as well as environmental protection. Returning to the proposal for a chemical law, it allowed the establishment, maintenance and improvement of a single chemical management system in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Then, ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, as well as improving the free transport of chemicals and products with countries both the EU and other countries, as well as ensuring the competitiveness of the economy and promoting the development of safer alternatives. The bill, which is before us, does not touch the essence of the Chemical Law, but on the one hand provides conditions for effective inspection of the management of chemicals, and on the other hand the basis for the collection of taxis is arranged, in order to comply with the budget system, as well as with the rules governing the EU. Otherwise, since I mentioned the EU, let me also say a few words about it. As far as chemicals are concerned, the European Union has developed a special system that prescribes registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions. In short, it prescribes the management of chemicals on the market. One of the main reasons for introducing this system is that it is a very large number of chemicals, and in large quantities, placed on the EU market, and that the information on the dangers they pose in relation to their fact on human health and the environment was really minimal or insufficient. This system, among other things, requires manufacturers and importers to collect data on the hazardous properties of chemicals and to enter these data into the central database, run by the European Chemicals Agency located in Helsinki. Certainly, the main objective of this improvement is to protect human health and the environment through timely and adequate identification of dangerous properties and to warn users of the safe use of chemicals. At the same time, it insists on encouraging the development of safer alternatives and competences of the European chemical industry. Also, the provisions of this system do not apply to chemicals that are governed by other specific regulations, such as biocidal products, and I will say something later on about this, cosmetic products, radioactive materials, food and other products. Returning to the bill itself, it should be said that its adoption will primarily have a positive impact on the producer, importer, exporter or further chemical user. Then, an important item concerning the Republic of Serbia's budget has been abolished fees for issuing a solution, i.e. approval, and taxes are introduced, thus making public revenue, i.e. payment in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Otherwise, what is important should be said that this is in line with European regulations and practices. What is practically achieved by this? It is achieved that the burden of administrative management of chemicals is borne by those who place chemicals on the market and earn profits. As far as inspection surveillance is concerned, we certainly had one great illogicality. As far as these inspections are concerned, we have three inspections: market inspection, sanitary inspection and environmental inspection. But I must say, we also have a veterinary inspection in biocidal products. So now there is a clear division of jurisdiction and authority between these inspections. I'm not going to comment, since you've already talked about what they are under the new law of their jurisdiction, but in the very end, about chemicals, I would like to stress that the preventive approach to chemical management is primarily safeguarded by the lives of people, the environment and also create conditions for improving the productivity of the economy, increasing the volume of investment and trade. In short, as regards the remaining two proposals for a law on biocidal products, it should first be said that the changes relate to the change in jurisdiction in the area of the management of biocidal products. Practically, what are the amendments to this bill? The fees that have so far been paid by the Chemicals Agency are being abolished, fees that are revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget and practically persons who profit from the placing of biocidal products on the market will be borne by part of the cost of managing biocidal products, which also relieves the budget of the Republic of Serbia itself. As with the previous Chemical Act, which I was talking about, also here, the applicable Biocidal Products Act did not distinguish the jurisdiction of inspection, with the difference here that, in addition to the sanitary and market inspections for environmental protection, as I said earlier, we also have a veterinary inspection that controls the use of biocidal products in professional users using biocidal products to perform registered veterinary activities, as well as in areas, facilities and activities under veterinary supervision. The practical demarcation of the jurisdiction of four inspections shall provide for a clear division of the powers, i.e. the jurisdiction of inspections carried out by inspection controls. At the very end, this law does not deviate from the solutions contained in European regulations. At the very end, speaking of the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, I would like to say that the objective of amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution is to align the provisions relating to the start of work of a facility that is obliged to obtain an integrated authorisation with the Law on Planning and Construction. Practically, this paper in the Law will change the dynamics of solving and issuing industrial facilities of integrated licences that are certainly related to environmental protection, which will be extended from 2015 to 2020. In Serbia, practically, I mean, there are currently 196 plants that must have integrated permits. According to some of my information, the request was filed by 166, if I am not mistaken, but only 10 of these were issued at the republican, regional or local level by the end of 2014. At the very end, the Single Serbia parliamentary group, in Voting Day, will support all proposals for the laws that I have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23249	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23250	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the guests, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have three important amendments to the laws in the field of ecology, changes and additions to these laws. Members of the SPO and the Demochrist parties believe that their compliance with EU rules and, of course, respect and implementation in practice is also a step towards the opening of Chapter 27. Protecting and improving the environment, as well as preserving human health. The first of these laws, the Chemical Act, was adopted in the original form of 2009 and suffered changes in 2010, 2011 and 2013. The basis of its adoption is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the protection of health and improvement of the environment and protection of human health. This law lays down, above all, the classification of chemicals, packaging, labelling, integrated management of chemicals, the issue of licences, imports and exports of certain chemicals, particularly dangerous, systematic monitoring of chemicals, as well as evaluation of evaluations, availability of data, surveillance and, I would point out, the institution of chemical advisers. What is the essence of today's changes and the addition of this law? Well, first of all, as we have heard, the tax on the most complex procedures implemented under the Chemical Law, which was not an economic justification for their funding to fall on the burden of citizens, i.e. to go out of the budget, and provide conditions for effective control of chemical management. The bottom line is, it does not touch the laws itself, given in the original form, but only changes in the payment of taxis because it is quite logical that the costs of the procedure are borne by a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur who has and benefits from placing on the market. The SPO and Democratic Party of Serbia MPs in voting day will vote for these solutions because we believe they are correct and correct. However, I must draw attention to the existence, according to us, of the most measured institutions and wonder if it adheres to the law, i.e. How much does he perform as a chemical consultant? The chemical advisor is, in essence, every legal entity, by law, in the supply chain and has to hire an adviser, or a person who will be specially trained and tasked to take care of chemicals and comply with the obligations and technical requirements arising from the regulations. About ten days ago, an extremely disturbing piece of information came out to the public, and the media dealt extensively with them. The appearance of carcinogenic matter in diapers, dolls, mats, toys for newborns and children. No less or less, phthalates, carcinogens that disrupt hormones, reduce fertility -- in budium, in prosthetics, phthalene and naphthalene, which is found in diapers, which can be mutagenic and carcinogenic, and bisphenol A, harmful to the brain, in dolls. Messages have been sent that it's allowed quantities, even to the citizens' appeal that when they buy products, they watch the declarations. We believe that these are unacceptable answers and that even the smallest amounts of these substances, these chemicals, in these products, even if they were in the tracks, can be very dangerous. Is it the citizens who should have information and have knowledge of dangerous chemicals, or is it actually this chemical counselor? I would point out that if we hadn't found out yet, we have no information whether these products were on our market, who were the manufacturers of the products mentioned and whether the supervision by the relevant institutions was carried out on the basis of the information obtained. We have to get the answer and solve these dilemmas, and here, by coincidence, today we are in the National Assembly discussing the Chemical Law. The second, no less important, is the law on biocidal products and the adoption of this law introduced a unique system, as you said, of placing biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Why is it important for biocidal products to be regulated by precise legal procedures? Mostly because of their chemical composition because they destroy harmful living organisms, i.e. they are designed to contain undesirable organisms whose unwanted presence or harmful effect affects human health, their activity and their environment, and it does not take much to be the same and to turn against human health and the environment. The essence of the adoption of today's laws and additions is that the power to prescribe a type of biocidal product is being exercised by the minister responsible for environmental affairs. The Chemical Agency is hereby repealed because this decision ended in 2012. The bill states that instead of the fees paid by the Chemicals, Tax and Income Agency, they go to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It wasn't clear to me personally in your presentation, for the chemicals you said, I don't know if the same situation is here in biocidal products, which happened in 2012, when the Agency was abolished, with a tax that was collected these two or three years whose income it was. One more thing, I would point out that this law has clearly defined both the generals, both the biocidal products themselves and the manufacturer, the importer and the active substance. It is also clearly defined to keep dangerous biocidal products in the sales space, in the way of labelling, the authority of inspectors, the exercise of inspection supervision and the placing on the market of biocidal products, where the manufacturer or importer may also place on the market on the basis of a solution adopted concerning the entry of that biocidal product in the provisional list, and the deadlines are determined by the minister, on the basis of whether or not the active substance is contained in the biocidal product. At the same time, the minister may also withdraw and ban the placing on the market of the biocidal product if it is a biocidal product at unacceptable risk for human health. For reasons of partial compliance, i.e. inconsistencies, it is stated that the Biocidal Products Act takes over the solutions set out in Directive 98/8 of the European Commission, on the placing of biocidal products on the market, and that the positive list of active substances is taken from that regulation. The process of including an active substance on the list is quite expensive, so that repetition or parallel implementation of this procedure in the Republic of Serbia is not rational. It is thus stated in the explanation. But there are misunderstandings here. The fact is that in Serbia biocidal products are regulated by the Biocidal Products and Sublaws Act, and that this law is largely harmonised with the EU and Directive 98/8 of the European Commission, but also the procedure for the authorisation, i.e. the risk assessment based on the technical file for biocidal products, is currently not implemented according to the EU model. In view of the fact that this law also provides for a transitional procedure, i.e. the entry of a biocidal product in the provisional list. In this way, the introduction of a marketing authorisation procedure is prescribed, according to the EU model, but is given a few years longer than in the EU. Since the list of active substances is being downloaded from the EU, where there is an announcement that this process will be completed by 2024, it is likely that, according to some of my free findings, the entry into the provisional lists will remain a procedure allowing the placing on the market of biocidal products and there is our dilemma. The provisional lists remain at best until 2024, and perhaps longer, depending on how determined we are that Chapter 27, environmental protection, as well as other EU requirements are to be consistently implemented, and we have a lot of work to do, and there is no doubt that the entry of biocidal products into the provisional lists in the Republic of Serbia must one day grow into lists that have a lasting character according to EU criteria and why the finding that the process is quite expensive, why delay it, because that job is waiting for us and for some of our visions to be needed and to start it as soon as possible. Finally, we also have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of environment pollution. It is this law that represents a major step in resolving and resolving the full prevention and control of environmental pollution, in terms of developed EU countries and a major step in regulating and integrated conditions for the work and facilities and the procedure for issuing integrated permits. It was passed in 2004, with three more laws in the field of ecology. Out of the 196 plants that are subject to the issue of integrated permits, 166 requirements have been filed, with 10 integrated permits issued in the Republic of Serbia, three in the republic, five in the province and two in the local self-government level by the end of 2014. What's the problem with these facilities? Is the fact that some of the issues of driving and ending the process of issuing integrated permits are not regulated by this law, or that these same facilities have not been held socially responsible from the outset and have therefore been found necessary to operate according to the principles of conservation and protection of the environment. We'd say both, because some of the facilities got the permits. In order not to be unclear in the application of the law, in particular from Article six, that the work of new plants does not start before the authorisation is granted, except in the case of test work approved under this law, the addition is also defined that even after the test work, for a maximum period of 240 days, provided that all the results of the measurement of environmental pollution are consistent with the permitted values and that this has been confirmed by the Commission for the technical examination. Those plants can continue their work, so they don't have to interrupt it. The competent authority is scheduled to issue an integrated authorisation by 31 December 2020 at the latest for installations and activities. I want to sincerely believe that by 2020 the process of issuing integrated permits will be completed for these 196 plants in order to protect life as well as to protect and preserve the health of the population from being too conscious of the social responsibility that has been missing for years in advance. When we talk about social responsibility, I must also give an example of the cement factory Kosjerić, which has been the largest polluter of Koserić and the surrounding environment since its founding in 1976, with both air and land, rivers, underground waters, with long-term consequences. Neither did citizens' appeals nor the civil society associations that turned their attention and tried to help. However, by changing owners, and through the overly responsible management of Titan cementara Kosjerić, in 2011, she was granted an integrated permit under the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination for the operation of the cement production plant and completed all tasks and made commitments before the deadline. The integrated work permit Titan cementara Kosjerić, was filed under regular number 1, 2011 and I think such an example should be followed by other facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23251	The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23252	I will repeat, at the beginning of what we have already heard, but it is not necessary to repeat that today we have changed and supplemented the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of the environment in 2004 when the first set of laws in the field of the environment is in line and in line with EU rules. What is somehow common to these three laws, i.e. the reasons for their adoption, are, in fact, to amend these laws, in fact, an amendment to these two first laws that I mentioned, because in 2012, the Agency was abolished, a law on the abolition of the Agency that carried out a professional job for the purposes of managing chemicals and this third law that was actually passed in order to move the deadline and to re-schedul some time to implement what the obligations under this law are, or what practice has shown to be necessary. In light of the reasons for amending the Chemical Law and the Biocidal Code, it is said that the proposed amendments to the chemical law above all regulate the basis for the collection of taxis, for the management of chemicals that now become part of the Republic of Serbia's budget in line with the Budget System Act. Since, as I have already said, the Chemicals Agency was abolished by the government's decision in September 2012 instead of the fees from which the work of this agency was financed, the fees which are now the revenues of Serbia's budget are being introduced. It is said that the rate of tax is determined in the current year for the following year by applying the methodology prescribed by the finance minister and cannot be increased over the year by that year. In the light of the proposal for a law, it is stated that the projection of the expected revenues on the basis of fees will depend on both the amount of tax to be prescribed and on which administrative procedures will be applied and in what number. However, the amount of these taxis at this point cannot be specified precisely, because they will be established, as I said by regulation. In the light of the changes to the Biocidal Products Act, it is said that the amount of tax must be appropriate to the costs of providing public service and cannot be increased over the year. It is in the eyes that the amendment of the Law provides only for the registration of chemicals in the register of payment of administrative fees, and in all other cases a fee is paid which is not known how much it will be. At the same time, it is also argued that as a form of reduction from the financial burden of legal entities dealing with the production and transport of chemicals, the suspension of payment of fees for the provision of professional assessment and properties and the purpose of certain chemicals. So, as a form of lower financial burden, these estimates will not be charged. I'll just mention Article 20. The Biocidal Act, meaning the one that is now changing, which was intended to verify whether the technical file is complete and the assessment of the biocidal product based on the technical file, pays compensation, as it has now existed and what we are changing today, by eradicating attitude 2 which says that the amount of compensation is determined depending on the extent of the data for the technical file, or depending on the type of active substance in the biocidal product, i.e. the biocidal product itself. I'm just going to remind myself of what biocidal products are like substances, simply because of the viewers who follow this, it's done, that the biocidal products of a substance that have a negative effect on undesirable organisms, are called non-agricultural pesticides, have a wide range of applications, such as disinfection, as disinfectants, various preservatives, insecticides, wood protection products, etc. They are used in hospitals, restaurants, morgues, washing rooms, swimming pools, bathrooms, rat and insect destruction preparations, etc. They are basically dangerous and need to be tested for the property in order to know whether they have a harmful effect on human beings and the environment before they are placed on the market. I ask – where is the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of the citizens of this country? We believe that it was a very harmful suspension of the Chemicals Agency and I will repeat for who knows which time, the abolition of the Environment Fund, which was then abolished. I would just like to refer to the reasoning of the 2009 Law, when this law was passed and when the Agency was established. In this explanation, it is said that the basic objective of adopting this law is then to establish, maintain and improve a single system of governance of chemicals in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure a high level of health and environment protection, as well as to improve free transport of chemicals with countries of the European Union and other countries, ensuring the competitiveness of the economy, which is very important, you will agree, and by encouraging the development of safer alternatives. Therefore, proper chemical management is the primary objective of the adoption of then chemical law, and one of the instruments for achieving this objective was the establishment of the Chemicals Agency. It is said then in the explanation – this would allow the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning to be disbursed from closely specialised and professional affairs, and a specialised body would be created which would, in the future, carry out obligations under this law more professionally and organisedly, as well as other obligations imposed in our proximity to the European Union. Control of the application of the chemical law would remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, because then the environment was together with spatial planning, now with agriculture, I don't know who it will be with in the next period. I guess we'll talk about it sometime later, and it's partly based on market inspection, which is the inspection of the local self-government unit. It is said that the formation of a chemical agency will create conditions for it to later grow into a centralised agency that would deal with the safety aspects of all chemicals placed on the market and used for different purposes, so I would only remind that there are chemicals used for general and professional use, biocidal products, cosmetic products, detergents, and that control of the application of the rules on certain chemicals is organised by different inspections. We've already heard what inspections are involved here today. It is said, also -- by establishing an agency like this, the rule would apply that problems are best solved if they are placed under the same roof. Regardless of the fact that such agencies exist in almost all new countries of the European Union, because it has been recommended, an institutional model for new countries, as is the founding of the Chemical Management Office in Slovenia. There is a Chemical Bureau in Poland, there is a Substances and Preparations Centre in Slovakia, there is a Swedish Chemicals Agency and others in Sweden. The new rules on integrated governance set up the European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki. Also, in a study by the Swedish Chemicals Agency, which was otherwise prepared for the purpose of our mutual co-operation and staff training in this agency was funded by Sweden, it is recommended that such an agency be formed. It was then explained that the sources of funding of this agency would be compensation, budget and donations. He says, given that this type of activity in the state administration requires very expertise, such as knowledge from regulatory toxicology and risk assessment, as well as the fact that there is a very high demand for this type of staff in the European Union for the adoption of new regulations. It is not good to tie these officials, i.e. such a highly professional fit for civil servants who would be trained with the help of an international aid project and if their salaries were to be filed under administrative reduction, as is the case with us now. Then it would affect their outflow. When we discussed the Committee in the principle debate on these laws, we heard that there was a certain issue, I asked it then, that there was a departure of a number of specialized personnel left by the Ministry, and here today we are considering the introduction of a cab that will no longer be an asset that will be poured into the agency, or it would be given to some professional staff, but it would be part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We will again, unfortunately, talk about the need to strengthen the law enforcement capacity in the process of approaching the European Union, and it is this case that shows how much damage can be done by making such a decision to abolish the Agency, which has just played a role in starting order in the field of chemical governance. Just as a comparison, we have examples where our agencies have not been abolished under the pretext of saving or excessive administration, as they have been in one period, simply some kind of hickey against the agencies. One example is, for example, the Port Management Agency, which remained in the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports, whose supplement we have just adopted that incomplete ten days as it has passed since then. Its funding is foreseen from fees such as the financing of this Chemical Agency that has been abolished and which is why we are today, by the way, discussing the amendments to these two laws. In my personal view, it is a lack of understanding of the protection of the environment and a simple maternal relationship with this subject, and we are constantly hearing that the most expensive and expensive chapter 27 is in the process of our approach to Europe, which is the chapter of environmental protection. Based on some of the studies that have been done, it is estimated somewhere at 10.5 billion euros, which will be needed to edit this area, and among other things, as far as chemicals are concerned. There is another important reason for amending this law, it says – the need to distinguish the jurisdiction of environmental inspection and other inspections that my colleagues have already mentioned. Under the existing Law, these ministries, which contain the inspections mentioned, are intended to educate the joint body in order to carry out inspection controls in accordance with the regulations governing the state administration. But it is said in the explanation that the practice so far has shown that the work of this body has been ineffective, as they say there have been no precise reference to the jurisdiction of each resistor. In Article 50 of this previous law, when agencies have been abolished, it is said that the agencies are being provided with information on the results and findings of inspections carried out and have actually done administrative and professional work for the purposes of this body, so, if I am wrong to ask you to explain that if I did not understand it correctly. So the question is, what I'm actually interested in, was this body ineffective before or after the agency was shut down? We believe that as it is now imagined and with the precise obligations of each participant, or every inspection, this body will continue to be ineffective if it does not define who is coordinating and monitoring its work and with regard to the LSV parliamentary club has also submitted amendments. The third law under consideration today is the law on changes and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. As I have already mentioned, and as we have heard it was brought in 2004, and it regulates the types, activities and facilities for which an integrated authorisation is issued, the responsibilities for issuing those permits, the conditions for issuing, the content of the requirements for maintenance, the procedure for issuing, supervision, penalties and other issues of importance for preventing and controlling pollution, and normally, along with this law, the following regulations and regulations have been adopted. It is explained that the reason for proposing amendments and supplementing this law is to ensure the consistency of certain legislative legal solutions with the application in practice and to prevent and control environmental pollution. Practice has shown that it is necessary to propose certain amendments to this law. According to the rules, existing facilities are based on Article 34. The Integrated Authorisation Act was obliged to obtain a licence by 2015, and the proposal for these amendments is precisely to extend that period by 31 December 2020 at the latest. The Regulation provides for deadlines for the submission of applications, i.e. for the submission of applications for existing facilities which have the obligation to submit an integrated authorisation in 2009 to 2014 depending on the work they do, for example slaughterhouses and farms were obliged to submit an application by March 2011, cementers were bound by February 2010. We've already heard that a total of 196 plants have been obliged to apply for integrated permits. A total of 166 applications were submitted, and only 10 of them were issued by the end of 2014 at the province level, three at the republic and three at the local self-government level. Since I know the data relating to the province level, the total number of requests in Vojvodina has been submitted to 33 which have been filed, five for new plants and 28 for the existing ones. Five permits have been issued and two are expected for the next few days, and only one employee works. In the ministry as far as I have information, three people are working on issuing a permit, and the European standard is such that three permits are issued per employee on an annual basis. So one officer can process three permits in one year. At the municipal level in Vojvodina, another 35 requirements were submitted, with a total of about 70 requirements for existing integrated licences. However, no local self-government in Vojvodina has so far issued a permit. And as for new plants, it allows this bill to change the law to start the period of obtaining an integrated permit, i.e. that they can start working in such a way that after the trial work they do not take up to 240 days provided that the results of the measurement of environmental pollution are consistent with the assigned values. Why is this process so slow? I also asked that question on the board – whether the competent authorities do not have enough people working on the issue of these permits, and we have seen from this statistics, I would ask if I am wrong, whether it is correct, because it seems to me scary and at such a pace with so few employees working on the issue of these permits we will not achieve good results until 2020. If the operators of the facility applying for this authorisation do not have sufficient knowledge to prepare all elements of the request or there are interferences and slowness by other authorities in obtaining the necessary elements, or simply do not rush to meet the conditions, counting on moving deadlines. Also, the public debate on this has not been held. It is said in the explanation – it was not implemented on the basis of a decision by the Government's competent board since 13 December 2013, since the draft law was put on the site in 2012 and they say it was available for those who were interested. Namely, the public or citizens have the right to know what changes are made and how this will affect the environment, that is, their health and life, and all I say again in accordance with the Archus Convention where citizens have the right to information on the state of the environment, have the right to decide when it comes to their interest and their health and have the right to seek legal protection when their environment is threatened. I'm just going to give an example, one question, is Mr. Grujic Tomislav from Kostanik, has he been informed that he has polluted land in his field because arsenic, lead, cadmium is present because of the waste spill from the "Stolica" mine? I asked this question as a letter and got this answer, but I don't know if Mr. Grujic Tomislav has been informed of what is in his field, and as a result of ecological, I can simply say ecological disasters. This kind of movement of borders and this procedure practically goes hand in hand to "bad students", as I like to say, and we foresee the basic reason for implementing this law, which is to protect the environment, i.e. all media such as water, air, land, proper waste management, and thus protect the health of citizens. The LSV Group proposed amendments to these first two laws in order to correct the damage done by the 2012 law when the agency was abolished, although for some of the proposed amendments it would be "expunged". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23253	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have in front of us the amendments and the addition of three laws in the field of environmentalism and the MP group of NS did not have a dilemma that in the day of voting we will support the proposed changes and additions, but we have really carefully analysed the proposals that are ahead of us, although I must say that the public of Serbia does not have enough focus, neither is the public of Serbia sufficiently carefully analysed this topic, nor is it sufficiently familiar and we believe that one of the benefits of this plenary debate should be one minimal shift in the minds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how important this is an important topic and how big a problem we are facing. It was just mentioned in chapter 27. We must admit that we have been badly assessed by the EU in terms of what we have done in the protection of the environment and in sustainable development so far. I have to say that what is an explanation for the changes and additions of these laws that we fully understand and we consider in fact a single attempt to solve a serious problem from a new vision more successfully. Practice of course shows what it is or is not more successful. Every law when it begins to live, it has yet to show its good or more loyal sides and therefore there is a parliament to react quickly and effectively to any legislative change, possible change. So what it is in these laws recognised by our parliamentary group is what they do not say, and it is very important that we have, above all, the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development that all European countries have. We have had this in earlier attempts, and now this area is always within a very complex ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, certainly a very demanding ministry that treats also a large number of serious problems affecting our society. So I think that's something to think about. So that I don't repeat the data that my colleagues used to say, so now I'm going to explain something completely different, as a parliamentary group, we've always been in previous synergy and in the adoption of earlier laws we've always been explicitly against the introduction of agencies. Of course, there are agencies that should have states and we believe that exactly the agencies that are in the area of the environment, the ones that justify their existence – they are the ones that are being abolished. We have about 160 agencies. Germany has six state agencies, Finland nine, the Czech Republic eight, Slovakia 11, our neighbours in Croatia have 47 and plan to bring them down to half. If we already wanted some serious savings somewhere, there are a lot of agencies that not only don't justify it, but also a little bit irritated by the citizens because they don't know the purpose of their existence. For example, I would like to quote the State Capital Assessment Agency, the Social Housing Agency, the Foreign Investment Agency and the Export Promotion Agency, the Port Agency, the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, etc. There's a lot to be saved on, but we can't save on environmental protection anymore, because we have serious excess situations on the ground. I would like to mention each other's gap, let's say, Zajaca javišta, which is a major problem for Serbia at the moment and who needs access as soon as possible and as soon as possible to solve it, because the population near Zajaca is in serious health danger. I accept the full explanation presented by the minister, and I believe that there is a need to unite the inspection and co-operation of the three ministries, primarily the Ministry of Health, and then the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. This will bring better results, but we really remain in the fact that one ministry has to deal with only these problems. We have another present problem in society when it comes to environmental protection and sustainable development. We are dealing with this topic as a society, rather in the field of amateurism, and in the last decade, we have acquired a significant number of highly educated and highly skilled very respectable personnel to be used in these situations. So that's what society should insist on. We have personnel who are also respected and recognized everywhere they appear with their competitive knowledge as a particular resource, but here they are not visible enough. That's what I'm suggesting not only to this ministry, but first of all to the government. These are the laws already passed in 2004, some in 2009, repaired in 2010 and 2011. We are re-correcting these interventions today, and in the voting day, after the amendments that colleagues have proposed, we will have probably a significant debate and an attempt to convince the ministry to adopt some, which I suppose will be heard about. But we must not give up as a society to deal with this whole, serious, radically and responsibly and that we have problems, and we have them as a society, a large number of problems, environmental and a little bit, so somewhere we hear a situation that represents an outsider, so we need to seriously address the issues that are bothering us. Environmental protection and sustainable development are important, primarily due to the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'd say, for the sake of the nation's health. The health of the nation is the most important and the only resource that must be ahead of all other resources and all other resources to be in his service. So, at this point in time when technological development has gone so far that it represents a double sword that enables some benefits and some quality of life, while at the same time poses a serious threat, if it does not approach it in a sufficiently responsible and particularly professional way, we must as a society to raise awareness of the importance of this topic, to show as a society that this topic is precisely for the sake of health, one of the first and most interesting topics, not just because it is prescribed by the EU that reminds us of it, but because we know how important it is, if we are polluted, to protect people from it, as well as how important it is to find out what chemical exces, how important it is to protect people from it, how important that there are heavy metals that children do not come into contact with them, and not only to analyze blood images and to figure out what has hit us. We must face a number of consequences that we often do not want to talk about as a society and to solve these problems responsibly. I suppose the Ministry's intention was to make these changes and additions one more step towards it. The practice will, I said, show if we have succeeded, but I really think that as a society we would show maturity, responsibility and, above all, savings when some of these powerful agencies, which they don't even know exist, are abolished, and we create a serious high professional ministry that doesn't have to be very numerous, but must have a number of strictly skilled persons employed and responsible for the issue of environmental protection and sustainable development. Then we would also show the EU's intention to bring Chapter 27 into line with all that they prescribe. We have to do it sooner or later, because air, water and land have no division. Everything that flows, it flows in all directions. That's what we have to face. In the voting day, New Serbia, I said, will support these proposed laws, and later we will see the amendments of our fellow Members, and we will probably support some quality amendments from other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23255	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23256	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, I must tell you that today you seemed very solemn to me when you got up and when you wanted to welcome us on behalf of the Government and to present today's draft amendments to the law to me, and it was a beautiful moment for me. It seemed to me today, given that the first session of the regular session, that in a symbolic sense, it had a fine connection with the extraordinary importance of the topic that we are talking about today. This is one part of the topic, and all that we are talking about and what we will care about is the future of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of any political commitment it has, because it is simply a matter of sustainable development and the survival of all of us within the borders of our country. I would like to welcome very warmly to this occasion your co-workers from the ministry and Mrs Stan Bozovic, who is the president of the negotiating group 27. I know that there is an extremely large and demanding task ahead of you, and in that sense I wish you a lot of happiness and success for everything you planned to do with your associates. Why do I think this topic is very important, and I don't think I'm going to make a mistake? Here, my colleague Zlata Đerić previously said, this is the topic concerning the preservation of the most significant resource that a country has, these are people, these are human resources, and everything else that follows as a topic that we are dealing with, that is, the tasks that we have to do simply go into the preservation of that most important goal, and in another sense this is an important topic because it is related to this famous Chapter 27. I think that in the coming years, we will increasingly mention it, a chapter that is said to be the most extensive, most demanding, most expensive and in this respect before the Republic of Serbia and all relevant ministries and institutions that are obliged to implement the directives, decisions, EU regulations and to adapt them to our legislation, these large-scale tasks are ahead of us. What I would like to point out on this occasion is that in the European Commission's minutes, which came after the first screening of September 2014, it was noteworthy that the expert team at the meeting was well prepared, that they were familiar with the legal assets of the EU, that they showed professional capacity. In this regard, it is a very good recommendation that has come from our European partners, that this team should not be changed, it should only be strengthened. His expertise needs to be strengthened. Of course, these are people who have been through various trainings, but simply, only the existence of a consistent negotiating team can make a significant contribution to solving many of the dilemmas and solving many of the problems that will be on that path. What is also said in this report, it is that our European partners will, in the future, take great account of the administrative capacities and capacities of the implementation of the Directives, decisions and regulations, and in this sense, will very carefully observe our decision in terms of the competence of the ministries and institutions, meaning, the precise competences of the ministries and institutions dealing with Chapter 27 and, of course, what is also very important, these are clear frameworks for financing all these sectoral, so to speak, activities. By the way, Chapter 27 covers ten areas. It is not known which is larger and which is more significant, starting with horizontal legislation, through nature protection, through noise, air, water, waste management, climate change, chemicals, civil protection. So wherever we go, we see that when we're done with Chapter 27, we're going to do a serious reform in our economy, in our society, and we're going to certainly earn ourselves a successful and healthy future, if that's what I can say. I would further refer to the need to deal with some directives seriously. I singled out four because it seems to me that because of our public they are important, and they are also important in the spirit of today’s topic. One directive concerns risk assessment, and at this point it is also related to our previous legislative activity, which concerned the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, because this directive concerns projects that require the issue of a building permit. What is also important to say, that we have the opportunity to even before we finish the chapter and everything that goes in that sense, to use European funds in the installation, in the realisation of these projects. However, what is important and what will make us if we are serious enough, and I believe that we will, is that no matter what we are not members of the EU, we can access these funds, but we must fully apply the directives, which is as significant as training if we want to behave that way. What is also very important for our overall state of mind, when we talk about ecology, is the issue of public, i.e. the availability of information to the public, public participation in decision-making. I think it's something that we really need to work really hard on, because everywhere there's an environmental incident or whatever we call it, that concerns people and if we don't try to give them timely valid information about what happened. I think we rock their trust with everything we do, make them insecure. People feel fear, feel fear for their health and for their cattle and their property and for their overall existence. I think that this issue of the implementation of the Atlantic Convention is extremely important and if we work on it well enough, I am sure that we will have a far greater understanding and public support in all these processes that will later take place. I'd also look back on something else, it's so-called. Environmental crime, a question about the judiciary. Of course, it is necessary for both prosecutors and judges to have special expertise in working on these problems, because it is impossible, we will not be able to avoid that criminal policy either, or we will have to define precisely the types of penalties, or the levels of offences, in order to sanction those who do damage. The damage doesn't always have to be done because they intend to, they can intend to, but even when they do it out of trouble, it has to be sanctioned, because at any time we have to take care of all the risks and dangers that we all pose at the moment when an incident situation happens, which can be at the level and environmental disaster. What is interesting about the European directives, when we talk about regulation of legislation, or criminal policy, is that this directive allows national judicial systems to confirm specificities in determining the level and type of penalties for their mentality, for what can be acceptable and which can be motivated in this process to stop and prevent bad treatment against nature, and then to all of us. What's also interesting, what's going to happen to us, and already by deciding on these three draft laws, and that's also responsibility for the damage that nature is doing. The damage caused by nature will also be sanctioning through some sort of material punishment, or fine. But what's interesting is that this fine won't go in the way that whoever did something pays into the budget, and that's how he says -- I'm done -- I'm done, towards the state, but simply, he'll have to correct the mistake, to correct the damage done. Again, I think it's a good demonstration exercise to be far more serious and not to do any harm. Why does it matter? It's important because even now as we talk about these laws and on this subject, and now life is going on and now we have all the environmental problems we have and they're going to pile up every day, they're going to be more and more complicated to solve, they're going to be more expensive to solve, and they're going to make us a society that doesn't have enough confidence to solve some problems, to overcome them. I don't think we deserve to do this to each other. When it comes to these three laws that are on the agenda today, I'll read them, so I don't accidentally miss, a bill on amendments to the Chemical Law, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Biocidal Products, and a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination, we can argue here on some issues. It's a good dialogue and we can really wonder if we should have abolished the Chemical Agency, would it happen to us that in the years that follow in the implementation and realization of Chapter 27 we might have made a mistake? It's important that we talk. It is possible that time will be put back on the agenda of whether the Ministry of Environment should be an individual ministry or should this be the case. From time to time, we see that it goes a little from one group to another. I think this question is really going to come up on the agenda, because it's a very important chapter. We'll, as far as we know, close him down last. If the information that the last integrated permits are to be given by 31 December 2020, then it's very free to think that it's going to be some finalization of all that we have to do. That 2020 is not far. Just like they've been through all these in front of us, it's going to be these five. Our jobs are only getting muffled and our obligations are becoming more dramatic in their importance. So, once again, I return to that question, does the Ministry of Environment, and the topics that treat and experts who work there deserve to be a special organisational unit or not? Time will show, so I hope we make a good decision the moment we put that question on the agenda, if that's the time. What is most important to me in these laws is, of course, a clear determination of the jurisdiction of those who need to deal with, whether chemicals, whether they are biocidals. So, clearly demarcated jurisdiction, and I have to tell you that I've been greatly encouraged by the idea to distinguish the jurisdiction of inspections, in terms of the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Act, because every piece of information you get on the ground, when something happens, sanitary and market or any other inspector in these areas can't determine what is the exact resolution and the detour of his work, of course, is causing problems for those who are already, to put it that way, in trouble. The important thing is that this issue is being resolved, because it's important to me that the problem is seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23257	I ask my colleague Momir Stojanovic not toss the chairman. (Momir Stojanovic, from the scene: Can he just move the microphone a little bit?) ) Each MP has a way of expressing himself and speaking in a microphone. Also, if it's too loud for you, nothing bothers you to knock down your electronic units and thus reduce the volume of sound you get. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23258	Thank you. Is that enough? It is my will to contribute to this debate, I must tell you, so I speak so loudly. Thank you for your support. So, I was talking about the need to share the jurisdiction of the inspection. I want to say that what we especially need to be important, when we talk about integrated permits, is that need for this job to be done by 2020. It is clear to me that all those who, of course, under the new Law on Planning and Construction, have an obligation to have an integrated permit to do... They're new facilities. They immediately apply new technologies, new methods, etc. I wonder, what about those who have been around for dozens of years, who in 2009 had an obligation to submit their requirements for the issue of integrated licences, given that we have a very small number of permits so far issued, only ten out of 166 requirements in the procedure? I just hope that everyone else who hasn't received that permission has spent all this time, since 2009, to improve their facilities, to prevent all the bad effects on the lives and health of people working in these processes, by the environment and by the overall, of course, environment. It would be important, when we talk about integrated permits, that we really have absolutely adequate capacities in professional people to deal with the issue of these permits. Because we really expect significant investments, we expect the entire government programme significantly, and all our expectations are going towards our overall economic situation being improved. Therefore, if we have a new Construction Act, in which we trust so much and we expect new investors in this regard, then it is really very logical to show our operationality and that this 240-day process for the issue of an integrated permit... . I guess it might be shorter somewhere, but we certainly have to do everything we can to keep it from being longer because of the justification of the economic effects of those who want to do one job. Finally, I think it's also good that we've provided these new facilities, which meet all the technical conditions, whose parameters show they're not making any pollution, or that they're within the limits of normal and acceptable... I'm glad they have the opportunity at that point, when they get a trial permit, to start working, because we all expect jobs and all of these issues have to be looked at in a far broader aspect, and that's why somehow at the beginning of my presentation, I said that this is very important to me, and I see a lot of jobs on all sides and a lot of commitments that are pervading. In the end, I'd like to finish already, and I'd like to say that I think that we should try to work within our education system, especially higher education institutions, really work on qualified young people who do scientific and research work. When we talk about the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Code, we need reference laboratories and we need experts who will carry out all precise measurements that will give us reliable and relevant information, which will give us full security and trust in state institutions and that will help us to preserve the environment. We must not forget again, no matter how much we agree with the European directives, neither Europe will stop until 2020, nor until the moment we enter will continue to change, the analysis will continue to show that there are a number of environmental problems that will make us adapt, to innovation, so in that sense, everything we do today, we do quality and quite seriously, will be a very good starting position for tomorrow when we expect something new. In that sense, as a member of the SDPS, as a member of the informal green party, I would like to say that we will contribute to all these legislative activities, procedures and that we will try to promote a model of conservation of the environment and a carefree and successful life, which we all hope to strive to achieve and which we will achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23259	I'm sorry my fellow MPs threw it away while you were talking. I didn't know retired generals had such a sensitive ear to loud speech. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23260	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about these three laws, could have been three new laws, should have been three new laws in order to move harder and faster towards the EU and thus speed up our path, when it comes to European integration in the area of environmental protection and in general Chapter 27. On the other hand, for the third year in a row, we have continued to collapse the environmental protection system, the system of management of natural resources, and today with these three laws we finally derivate what began to be destroyed in 2012, which are two basic principles or two basic principles – the pay contaminant and the precautionary principle. Everyone here talked about a taxi as if it were meant to be, that the dedicated category for using dedicated funds in the field of environment, not that tax revenue is a budget that is missing track. To lose track of him, we've been seeing for three years, since all the ecological money coming from pollution fees and the other seven fees under the Environmental Protection Act ends in the budget, he's not being tracked down, and he doesn't end up with those 40% in local self-government where the biggest polluters are present. Unfortunately, in the last three years, we have not been following money flows, and it is impossible to determine the green money flows that are intended to protect and improve the environment. As a result, all the explanations of the fees that are the revenue of the budget are pointless, which, at the moment they enter the budget, as they are these three years in a row, will lose every clue and be used unintendedly to fill budget gaps, not to purposely spend resources on protecting and improving the environment. So we have money that doesn't return to Obrenovac, and in Obrenovac is the largest thermal power plant, in Obrenovac is the largest number of children with asthma, bronchitis and obstructive bronchitis, as well as allergic manifestations. We have that money doesn't go back to Lazarec, that money doesn't go back to Panchevo, to Smederevo, that money doesn't go back to Bor, to all those cities where there are large contaminants that are subject to the payment of pollution fees. What is evident is the crisis of governance and the lack of ecological authority in the government of the Republic of Serbia. What is still evident, and what "Green Serbia" insists on, is a special ministry of environmental protection and natural resources. For three years now, the ministry's absence and total degradation and devastation of the environmental protection system have been evident. Since 2012, something has been diminished, indeed, and the only real shift can be said that in the last year since you've been Minister, it has been the unification of environmental protection and environmental management. But apart from unification, we haven't had a single qualitative shift in environmental protection. In addition, and the Greens have been pointing out for three years, the missing instrument is the Environmental Protection Fund. The lack of the Environment Fund contributes to the existence of compensations used by dedicated funds precisely because Serbian citizens would not be burdened with budgeting, spending taxpayers, but that is why there are dedicated fees now spent for three years, because they are going into the budget and they are losing track of each one. In addition to the Environmental Protection Fund, it was necessary to return it to the Chemical Agency. The Chemical Agency as one of the most important institutions in chemical management, first of all, because the EU's "Rich System" is one of the most complicated regulations that Parliament has ever considered in the EU, and we have passed over it, and here we will cross in a few hours, very easy and very fast. To return to the Chemicals Agency because the European Commission's opinion of 12 October 2011 is within the framework of an analytical detailed report on 120 pages, it finds exceptional importance to strengthen the administrative capacities of the Chemicals Agency. A letter from the President of the Management Board of the European Chemicals Agency on the admission of the Agency for Chemicals of the Republic of Serbia to "Help the Net Network of the EHA" stating that EHA officials themselves recognise the good concept of governance of chemicals, establishment in Serbia, as well as the good preparation of the Agency for Chemicals of the Republic of Serbia as an excellent prerequisite for participation and contribution to the implementation of the EU's common chemical policy. We have the Chemicals Agency, which has passed 45 regulations and more than 4000 sides that have been transposed by all relevant EU regulations. We have before 2012, agencies that haven't done anything and haven't been lifted. The Chemicals Agency has been abolished, which has had the most visible success on the road to EU accession and transposition of all relevant regulations. Unfortunately, they are no longer in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but those who buried the economy of the Republic of Serbia buried four domestic banks, buried both environmental protection and one of the best public agencies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The public agency, of course, can do much better to exercise public authority than the state authority can. The constitution of the Chemicals Agency has just established the control of the private sector, which is solely managed by commercial interests. But let's go back to the lack of a system of environmental protection, and suggest another quality solution. Three solutions have been proposed to you, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection, a special fund for environmental protection, I agree, could be a budget and special agency for chemicals. What Serbia lacks is a green development or capital investment fund, a fund from which it could accelerate development, a fund from which it could be seen that investments in the environment are not a cost but investments in the green economy and the ecological economy and investments in the future. The Green, Development, Capital, Investment Fund, for example, can have 200 million tons of ash to build roads from TE to Obrenovac. That way it stops being garbage and junk, and it becomes raw and invested. You haven't done anything in three years. Exhausts of large mines and surface spears can be polygons for fast-growing energy plantations, nothing is done because there is no green development, capital, investment fund. Flat roofs can be solar roofs and introduce the principle of energy independence to communities. You didn't do anything about it. Biomass represents one of the most potential areas of renewable energy sources, 1/3 of the wood mass remains in forests. So whoever's been running the woods hasn't done anything in 20 years. Some objections are not just about the last three years, most of the problems in the environment, and that's what the minister said, it concerns not understanding the principles of green economy, not realizing that the neoliberal economy in the 21st century is dead, that the ecological economy and environmental freedom assume all other economic freedoms and that we cannot manage the interests of large companies or the interests of large producers, but that we are protecting citizens and protecting the environment. Eco-innovation in Serbia is almost nothing done and only a part of all these policies has been adopted, only part of the environmental policies and part of the green economy for which it has been for three years. If we had a special ministry and these dedicated funds, we would have tens of thousands of new jobs today and one billion investments in the ecological economy. Unfortunately, we do not have it today, and that is why Serbia is in a very difficult ecological situation, each day having an ecological incident, smaller or larger scales. Sometimes an ecological disaster occurs, the capacity of the environment is on the extremity and probably the nature and environment of Serbia will not be able to endure it for long. When we talk about the Chemical Agency, it set up an information panel to provide professional assistance to economic operators and in 2011, through its info desk, it answered over 2,000 questions about economic operators, and for two and a half years before 2012, it held 30 presentations, regulations and training for the economy and prepared 16 instructions to assist businesses in applying regulations and established co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. What is still very interesting, is that these three laws definitely define the principle – the pay polluter and the benefits as intended revenue have definitely been abolished, and will definitely lose any money trail that is purposely collected to protect the environment and improve the environment. That's why we think safe control of chemicals doesn't tolerate improvisation and that it can only be done by an independent chemical agency. When we talk about what's happened in the meantime since the Chemical Agency was abolished, we can't not mention the payload and the platola example is a classic example that the Chemical Act has not been implemented and that the absence of the Chemicals Agency is causing problems. Reports from air and materials treated with plateaus show that they contain benzene, a very dangerous substance that causes cancer and genetic disorders. Benzene was banned under the Chemical Act, which means he couldn't have been found on the market. It is similar in the regulations of Germany, France and should be similar in the regulations governing construction materials, unfortunately for this is the competent Ministry of Construction and Traffic, which should prescribe all evaporative concentrations of organic compounds that individual building materials should not have within them. It is known why this is prescribed, why it is harmful and to stay in a place where such evaporation exists, and unfortunately our country has not even begun the process of taking over the EU Construction Products Regulation, nor has the Ministry of Construction realised that it is responsible, because this kind of unregulated area of construction products has led to ugly problems and the tenants of buildings and investors themselves. Other interesting problems are tire bracelets. You remember there was an affair about it. Somewhere before the end of the summer, there was another story about the Chemical Act. It was said that rubbers that our children made gloves in the UK were found phthalates. Unfortunately, it's forbidden chemicals. However, it is an unprofessional debate in the media, and it came from a bad translation where the original article can see that phthalates were not found in rubbers, nor could they be found in rubbers, because they are added to PVC plastics, not silicones or rubbers or latexes. The most discouraging statement is the absurdity of your proposal in the media presentation of the problem, as the sanitary inspection said it had checked all the tires. The tires shouldn't have been checked. The content of phthalate in the plastic parts of the bracelet should have been checked. This leads to the conclusion that no one in any inspection has checked anything and that the answer has been brought in in a Lapland manner just to calm the public down. So this is about an intricacies that have been on the table for three years. Unfortunately, we still have a rule when we talk about toys, we still have a toy safety rule, and he's from 1983, and you're talking about transposing EU regulations. We control biocidal products in products and comply with the 1998 Directive and do not comply with Directive 528 of 2012. It means that we should have done a whole new law and don't agree with EU proposals from a decade and a half ago. Let's get along with what's coming on the agenda tomorrow. We'll have problems exporting shoes, we'll have problems exporting some other products, furniture, because there are no instructions and rules that we can treat and which biocidal products to treat what we're talking about. When we talk about biocidal products, we have a story about the participation of consultants, so you say that representatives, who took part in the consultation on the drafting of this law, that experts of EU members at seminars organised with the help of the EU's Technical Assistance and Information Exchange Office, Taix, were short-listed at seminars organised under other projects, supporting these legal solutions. Namely, none of the Taix seminars were after 2012. Therefore, this is prescribed by the 2008 and 2009 laws from the reasons that you then gave, i.e. who gave it back when he was the Minister of Environmental Protection. When we talk about the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants again, this adoption of the law is not in line with that Directive on Industrial Emissions, it is only about the transposition of the directive that you are talking about here, the APPS Directive. We have a directive on industrial emissions from December 2010 and instead of having the new Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants harmonized with both of these Directives, we are going back to the 2008 directive and thus opening up the space for the industry that does not have to be sufficiently informed to invest money in bat techniques in accordance with the 2008 Directive, which is likely to be or one part of them will be inappropriate when we adopt the Directive on Industrial Emissions, including all requirements for reducing emissions and duplicating efforts to issue licences under the old APPS Directive. I'm telling the old man about the adoption of the Industrial Contaminant Directive. We question the current practice of trial work here. Not only is it contrary to the Industrial Emissions Directive, but the principle of legal certainty has been violated and the consequence can be that the large industry or future investment and people who could bring new investments into Serbia are discouraged and thus stop any new investment in Serbia. Bat technology is defined as the best available technology and includes an idea project, construction, use and closure of the facility. The conclusions of the best available technologies should be incorporated into all other procedures, water permits, construction permits, waste management permits, and we should change the practice that an integrated permit is given at the end of the line, so to speak, all of this process because it is impossible for the remaining permits to precede the integrated permit to cover all but the requirements. Finally, it was due to offer a whole new law, a law transposing both the Directives, the 2008 APPS and the 2010 Industrial Emissions Directive. Ten licenses have been issued so far, and we've heard that a few times. It's not enough to move the deadline for 2020. If we work in this dynamic, we will have to move the deadline by 2120 and probably if we manage the environment like this, we will not enter the EU sooner, if by then there is and it is likely that when Chapter 27 comes to the agenda that it is being negotiated we will realize that it is much harder than all the other chapters, that we will have a lot more problems and only then will we realize that the Berlin Wall fell in 1990. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23261	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23262	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, taking into account the importance of the European Commission's 2014 report, which in particular explains exactly the position of the institutions and the work of the Serbian state institutions in the previous two, three years on environmental protection, and which is extremely negative and poorly assessed in that part, I expected the minister, together with his associates, to come out today not only with an explanation of the set of laws we are discussing today, but also with a proposal for measures and with a certain vision and a plan that we will in the coming period as a society and as a system of very accumulated problems. Instead, the minister pointed out in her first statement that the situation is very difficult, that the legacy is very difficult and that is rhetoric and that is the story we have listened to not only under this law. Those are excuses that have been going on here for months. In her presentation, the minister very detailedly explained how bad it was for both this and the previous government in the past three years, how bad it was with the introduction of a variety of turns that were completely out of line with earlier legislation proposals and through Serbia in joining the EU, means those turns that were primarily expressed in 2012, how much, as I say, bad procedures and the consequences that caused us these shifts. So I believe that the set of these laws is precisely a confirmation of how many the Government of the Republic of Serbia has in the past three years with the promotion of ignorance, intricacies and the introduction of hundreds of people who did not deserve to be in the places where they are, in fact, put the interests of citizens at risk. I think just an analysis of these laws can point to all the destructive policies of the government, especially in this area. Given that 30% of our institutions' jobs, which are related to the path of the state and this society in the EU, are related to environmental protection, we expect concrete answers and expect a vision that we will address problems in the coming period. I also expected the introduction of the minister in this topic to be related for a period of 10, 12 years, when the state of Serbia has since 2004 made a national, environmental and action plan, which was the basis for national and environmental plans at all levels, from the local level, from the republican level, from the province level, etc. I expected today to have a plan and a proposal that all these plans and action plans would be agreed and set in one direction at a time, and that is to solve the burning issues. Under this 2004 national, ecological and action plan, basic problems have been identified: air pollution, land pollution, water pollution, industrial pollution. The paths are also defined as solving proper waste management, how we will further develop recycling centres etc., etc. These plans have in some way resulted in the creation of the Environment Fund and the Chemical Agency, in 2007 and 2008, putting the government and all institutions in the first place as a priority of action. However, there remains one dilemma here, and that is what I would like to point out today in my discussion in particular. After the major results achieved in government and ministries since 2008, I want to highlight just some results, over 30 laws were passed in that period, over 200 sublegal acts, recycling centres were launched, recycling industry was launched, and more than 10,000 people were employed in this area. Also, 500 wild dumps were cleaned, more than 200,000 cc's of waste was removed each year, seven regional dumps were built, large money was invested in municipal infrastructure, in the purchase of containers, trucks, etc. Processes also began to build a wastewater facility, the arrangement of Serbia was visible in every place, and great money and effort was put in place to raise certain issues and solve problems during that period. However, with the formation of a new progressive government in 2012, there is a complete stalemate and there is a complete twist. We are witnessing that as a first step in that turn you have a decision to abolish the Chemicals Agency. It was abolished on 29 September 2012, although 95% of the users of the agency's services were satisfied with its work, even though you had a suggestion both by the European Commission and Mr Deger, the President of the European Commission during that period, that there should be no suspension of the Chemicals Agency and that between the five agencies necessary for the development of this area, i.e. this society, the Chemicals Agency is very necessary and necessary. But first of all, because of the unrealistic promises you made to the citizens of Serbia, because you entered into promises you can't make, and they're related to agencies and their abolition, you, of course without a good estimate, without a professional assessment, have embarked on adventures and the first thing you did was to abolish the Agency that gave the best results in its operation and your work. I think that, Minister, it is very fair and correct today, after two and a half years, to come before the citizens of Serbia, to admit that mistake and say, we are starting from scratch, going back to what was good, to admit our mistakes. The second mistake that was made is that in the second, i.e. the last quarter of 2012, the Environmental Protection Fund, which at that time had about 4.5 billion dinars on the annual level, was shut down. It was acceptable and tempting for someone to put this money into the budget, and no one asked questions – what happens to all the programs, all the projects, all these national and local plans for environmental development and waste management, what happens to visions that existed, and is our right and our perspective in shutting down what was good? I claim that what we are saying today and what the minister has also formally admitted in her presentation somewhere, that formalising and shutting down the agency is precisely the goal of today's adoption, that is, discussing this law and the eventual adoption of this law. Today, you failed to mention specifically the subject of why it is necessary for these laws to be adopted by an urgent procedure. When we return to chronology and ask the question - who was in charge and who was responsible and whether this state, i.e. the Ministry and the competent institutions, have information on who manages these two and a half years, why did you need an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law, if most of these laws were already proposed to the Government in May 2012? Because of the elections, they were moved, and then in December 2013, they were put before the government again, and they were not adopted. So for two and a half years, these laws have been discussed, they are present in the Assembly, and now you are coming to the MPs to say that there has been no public debate, there has been no debate on these issues, that it is not important that she be and that you adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Then, in an explanation why it is important to adopt these laws, you say: “It is proposed that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the law, etc., and, given that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences for the efficient operation of the authorities and organisations in the operations of the management of biocidal products, and thus bring domestic economy into an uncompetitive position in relation to the EU countries.” So for two and a half years, this law has been waiting for adoption, you are aware of all the harmful consequences of this delay and delay, and then you suggest that we have to adopt these laws immediately today. In your further explanation, you say: “The fundamental reason why this law is proposed to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger is the need to ensure continuity in the functioning of the biocidal product management system, as well as the legal framework for the change of jurisdiction in this area.” The interpretations go further, and you say that the basic Biocidal Products Act continues as the authority responsible for handling remains a defined Chemicals Agency, a formal legal problem has been reported in the implementation of the same law. With this explanation, by my interpretation, you accept responsibility, accept a mistake that two-and-a-half years this government, or these ministries, have done nothing to bridge this legal vacuum from the moment the Agency was abolished, in September 2012, and that both jurisdiction and governance, etc., were placed in the ministries. Your statement in your opening statement saying that this attempt to solve between the three ministries and jurisdiction and problems through a tripartite body is just showing and proving what I'm talking about. Your statement that you are aware that this body was only one meeting held when they met talks about their indifference and the inadequacy of this government and the ministries you represent. My question is, further in the light of the Law, you are referring to the data from 2012, and the Biocidal Products Act and the Chemical Act, you are talking about the data that are related to the submission of applications, for procedures, for compensation, etc., but you are the data from 2012. This is another proof that, from 2012 to today, the system did not work. This is another proof that this country does not have a serious answer, let's say, to the question why the problems with the construction of these buildings, who is responsible for the construction of buildings run by state authorities, means state institutions, the Directorate for the Construction of Serbia and the Belgrade Directorate, have been installed products: paints, paints and varnishes that are harmful to human use, i.e. contact. Do we today, after a year and a half from the start of this affair, have we established responsibility? I am absolutely certain that there was a chemical agency, so that we would have the opportunity to determine who was responsible that dozens and hundreds of people were deceived, that they had invested their capital, that they had invested their efforts, and they didn't have state support. Today when we talk about this subject, we also ask the question, on the Committee we asked that question, we didn't get an answer, is there a register, in these two and a half years, of biocidal products, which were previously very up-to-date, which is being managed properly and which today is practically and does not exist? Do we have an answer to the question, you have abolished the Fund, I am pleased that there is an announcement that it will return, that you have some estimate that over 7.5 billion dinars can be in that fund, although five or six years would spend that money for various projects in the state of Serbia on this issue, we would come slowly to that level to meet our obligations in the EU accession process. I ask the question – did you or any of your associates have any insight and analysis into the data previously related to the Fund and the period from the withdrawal of the Fund? Or do you have answers, after the Fund is abolished, in the state of Serbia, the law provides for the measure of air quality, water quality, land quality, whether we have monitoring and whether we have information to tell Serbian citizens not to be scared? The last events that were, I'll give you two examples. A few days ago, a fire in Makish. TV, media, statements are made, a cloud of smoke in the frame, on screen, information is going – yes, it is a big disaster, but don't worry, there is no pollution. No information has been provided by citizens on how it was reacted in the situation, they do not have official information from the competent institutions in which the disaster is headed. My question, which I particularly want to ask, is, for example, for the pollution of water in Užica, for both you and your associates, the following – is it since 2012, when the Environmental Protection Fund has been abolished, it measures the quality of surface water on the accumulations in Serbia? Do you have contracts in these two and a half years for the Environment Protection Agency with competent institutions to measure the quality of surface water, to measure the quality of land, to all other jobs that were once in the jurisdiction of that agency? According to my information, huge problems arise precisely because you've made an abnormally large cut, a cut in continuity. This is why we should say today, since the adoption of the 2009 Act, from the establishment of the Agency, from the establishment of the Environment Fund, the evaluation of European institutions and the European Commission on the situation in the area has always been positive and good. From the twists you've made since 2012, there's been very negative consequences, there's a bad score coming from the fact that you've abolished all the initiative, that you've been able to have silences through the institutions of this country and at the local and state level. These statements, of course, are in line with the 2009 laws. In principle, we can talk about them as good or bad, but what's the problem is that precisely because of this continuity, you have compromised the functioning of institutions in this area and put people's safety at risk. So, I suggest you seriously consider the amendments we have submitted to these laws. Our intention wasn't to promote ourselves politically here because we think this is the most significant non-political topic for all of us. I'm absolutely sure you and your associates have a good will, but you don't have enough support and authority to bring out major reforms and great challenges. Your support should first and foremost be related to the profession of both citizens and the public, and not to politics, to impose proposals and we will support these serious proposals. It is crucial that we consider that the changes that took place in 2012 are unacceptable, that the waist must return to the place where decisions are made and where controls are being carried out and that this is the way you will solve things in the next period. The idea, again back to the 2004 National Environmental Action Plan, was that occasionally, through education and through a regular system of education, a subject of environmental protection was introduced into kindergartens and elementary and secondary schools. Let that be our joint proposal. Let them be ways of dealing with certain things in the next period. I expect you'll consider this, too. The proposals and remarks that were made by both colleagues Lazic and colleagues Ivan Karic are also acceptable to us and we fully support them. What I was going to ask as a question is, do you have any information on what is going on with the project about the construction of the wastewater plant in Užica? We received a 15.4m-euro donation from the state of Serbia and the EU. There's nothing to be done for two and a half years at this job. After the construction of the Deep Regional Deposit, where we addressed the issue of waste management of municipal for Užice, Cačak and eight other municipalities, we expected this job to be completed as well. Thank you, so I'll have more time to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23263	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23264	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to comment on the evaluations of the previous speaker, as well as on some MPs who, in addition to the discussion of the proposed laws, spoke a lot about the whole issue of environmental protection. I want to say that we are aware of the problems and the scope of the work ahead of us this year, but I believe that Mr. Markovic, you are someone who may at least have the right to ask questions in this room because you are asking questions in 2012, 2015, and now it's February. If you've done well by 2012, how come we're having so many problems that you're so worried about. We are aware of what we have inherited. We know exactly what our problem is. Our problem is the environmental problem, the safety of citizens, but also the empty register. In 2012, The fund was abolished, at the time there were zero dinars in the Fund's account, and either way, be told 2,200 controversial projects. And today, instead of continuing what you did well, we now have to solve the problems we inherited. There is little time in the two years that you attribute to us, and I would like to remind you that we are in power, or that I took this resort from just ten months ago. We are aware of what it means to have a fund, to have funds and to have the resources to solve environmental problems. I must tell you that we have come across a great deal of understanding both with the government and with the finance minister, and we are working hard and hard to find the best model for the Environment Fund. From that fund, we have to solve the problems we inherited, neither guilty nor debtor. We're not pessimists, and I don't want our citizens to get the impression that we're not taking care of environmental protection. On the contrary, and as we take account, we were on bilateral screening in Brussels, we presented the situation in the environment, the situation we now expect and expect in September, and we hope that this assessment will not be more negative than other countries have received when they became an EU candidate. We have good projects, good solutions, and we hope that within the deadlines that we will negotiate with the EU, we implement all the positive legal solutions that we will previously agree on, of course, to implement them in practice. Thanks again, everybody.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23265	In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I get the right to the replica? ) You will receive the right to replica in the follow-up session. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23266	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23267	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as has already been in the discussion all day, is a very important law in the field of environmental protection. In fact, we have before us the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Three Laws on Chemicals, Biocidal Products and Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contaminants. The basic thought when we talk about what is a modern moment, which is modern technology is going in the direction of thinking about the dangers and risks that this modern technology brings to itself and all its products. In particular, this applies to the chemical industry. Some chemical products have a very different fact, a mutagenic fact of genetic material, a teratogenic fact and finally a lethal, a very dangerous fact that endangers everything that is alive. Therefore, if we have an uncontrollable area then it can leave various effects unfavourable, but not only unfavourable effects can lead to catastrophic consequences and for these reasons there is no playing and therefore this area needs to be done in the best possible way. So uncontrollable use of chemicals and biocidal products is very dangerous and there must be order. It must be noted, I would agree with that, the minister said at the outset and, of course, I speak on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that the issue of environmental protection is a priority issue for today and for all mankind, and it deserves attention and has priority over everything else that mankind needs today. In the race for profit, for new products, for winning the market, perhaps some companies or in some countries are undermining the issue. The attitude towards environmental protection, unfortunately, is not the same in all countries, and it can be said that, in fact, the EU as one group of countries attaches great importance to it, and we as pretenders, as future EU members, must go in that direction, not because we will become a member of the EU, but because that is the essence of the need for the benefit of man, for the benefit of future generations. It seems that environmental consciousness is not at the right level, at that level, the need that is very present today, so to speak, and which warns. It is important to point out for all three laws that we are considering today that these changes and additions are not significantly changing the essential solutions that have already been given to them. Furthermore, these laws, when it comes to the Chemical Law, or amendments and additions to this law and biocidal products, that it introduces unique ways of making chemicals and biocidal products. Secondly, what is very important is that they are in line with EU legislation and that, and this should be highlighted and that is the essence, that they ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. Also, these changes and additions improve free transport of chemicals and biocidal products with EU countries as well as with other countries. Of course, yes, we SPS MPs know that there are indeed a lot of problems in this area and that there are many jobs to go towards further resolving all current issues in order to comply with EU legislation, but also in order to achieve what is finally important, and this is a complete protection of our country's health and environment. I'm saying, he's got a lot of problems. We have here perhaps a very sharp criticism that we SPS MPs don't comment on, criticism should be. I would also agree with the assessment, dear ministers, but our opinion is that these problems have not arisen since 2014 in June or when this government is already formed, but that these problems exist for years, even decades. We don't think there may be adequate progress in this area, either, made in the past 2000, here if it's to be pointed out that before 2000, nothing was working on that plan, although that's not true. We must be realistic that the difficulties are numerous, but it is also important that, in very difficult conditions, we still go one step at a time in this direction and that we try to catch up with what solutions are in advanced countries and in EU countries. I would say that the solutions provided for by the Budgetary System Act refer to the revision of taxi fees under special laws, including these laws on chemicals and biocidal products. In fact, it is prescribed in the budgetary system that fees can only be governed by a law which can only be prescribed their height, or that an entity will deal with this issue. The most important thing is that for a number of procedures, the fees imposed do not go to the burden of the citizens and that the burden is actually borne by those who deal with traffic or who are involved in the production of these dangerous substances. The fact that two laws on chemicals and biocidal products are harmonised is also important, since in 2012 the authority of the Chemicals Agency was deleted. When we mention the Chemical Agency, we heard in some discussions that it was among the better agencies, that it worked zealously and well, etc., but that does not mean that the work in the future and without that agency cannot be done in the best possible way in the context of what is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and environmental protection where we have the authority on this matter. These responsibilities were first transferred to the Ministry of Energy and Development and the environment, and today, legally, it is technically carried out to amend the authority responsible for implementing this law. One of the important issues in these laws is that these changes specify the competences of the different inspection sectors and above all market, sanitary and environmental protection inspections. When it comes to the application of the Biocidal Products Act and the veterinary inspection carried out, which is tasked with controlling the part relating to veterinary activity or in areas and facilities under veterinary supervision. When it comes to the third law, in fact the amendments and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants, we have and should say that the main reason is the harmonisation of the provisions of the laws relating to the start of the operation of the facility which are obliged to obtain an integrated permit with the Law on Planning of Construction, in order to ensure continuity in the work. In order to be able to work after the test work, 240 additional time is provided for to obtain an integrated permit, but under the condition that it is now very important, that the part works in the application of the law and that there are no specific failures or certain subjectivity that can lead to severe consequences, and these conditions are that the results of the measurement of environmental pollution during the duration of the test work are positive in accordance with the prescribed values, of course, if the last technical review report is positive. Of course, the use of this should be done from time to time and strict control and there must be no improvisation, because the consequences can be very difficult. On the other hand, such an advantage has its meaning because it avoids a negative economic effect if there is a interruption in the work of a particular plant after the trial work, without this additional time. Also, one of the reasons or objectives of adopting these amendments and additions is to specify the similar application of the law on administrative procedure to issues of movement, management and completion of the process of issuing an integrated authorisation, which are not governed by this law. So we have one very important link in the entire functioning system for the continuous operation of one plant. It is also important to point out that the competent authority is also provided with appropriate dynamism for the issue of licences, providing one appropriate authorisation for the installation of activities and no later than 31. 12. 2020. Here we have a longer deadline for issuing an integrated permit and it is justified for gaining the status of the candidate of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership, from the point of view of obtaining a longer transition period for adapting existing facilities to EU standards. All in all, from what I said on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I think it was easy to conclude that my attempt was to speak in an affirmative way about what was the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment and that in fact there is one policy of this government and this ministry that is facing progress in this area, so that there are no improvisations that would in an unfavourable way reflect and leave consequences on the health of people and what is the environment, as a prerequisite for the healthy future of all humanity and the possibility of quality life of future generations. Of course, these changes and additions are just one cube in the entire mosaic that needs to be filled, just one step in a series of steps that should follow. The Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as this government, will have all the support of the SPS parliamentary group to continue this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23268	The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23269	Thank you. President-in-Office, Madam Minister, guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing three amendments and amendments to the law, chemicals, biocidal products and integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. These are very important laws when it comes to our environment, however, they essentially change nothing existing laws. This is only one order of moves that occurred when the chemical agency was abolished, when the fees paid for the transport of chemicals were transferred and then it was said to comply with the budget system and that the taxi system would be provided that for the administrative work of the ministry, for those seeking and participating in the transport of chemicals would be compensated. And that is not disputed, and I don't think there should be much time to spend there because it is natural and normal to pay for by those who are involved in transport and who benefit from it, not from all of it on the back of Serbia's citizens. What is essential and it is clear how dangerous it is from chemicals and biocidal products and acute in terms of acute poisoning and chronic exposure to these agents is dangerous and risky to the health and life of citizens. We are almost daily in an opportunity to see how irresponsible handling of certain means can be devastating. Two bottoms ago in the Atar of Serbia's Montenegro were found several deer that were poisoned, foxes and pheasant. They were poisoned by irresponsible rodent poisoning by some citizens. Not to say how chronic exposure to certain chemicals is dangerous to health and life, when we see that we are the people who are the shortest living in Europe. We have a particular problem as a developing country today, which is a terrible pressure on developing countries, that the production and transport of chemicals and dangerous resources in these countries is taking place. Countries of the rich developed world have moved on to alternative substances that are less harmful and less harmful and now transfer and are looking for new markets in developing countries. This is all very difficult because legislation in these countries is not particularly developed, on the one hand, and citizens' awareness of the danger of chemicals and biocidal products is not at the level at which it should be. And that's why there's now a big problem in these countries, and it's obvious that we do, since environmental consciousness is still on some level that isn't adequate and doesn't satisfy us. I hope that in the next period, we will look to avoid only 4% of Serbian citizens feeling the environment as a priority for their lives, while 70% of EU citizens see the environment as a priority for their lives. We see how far away we are from it, and we see how much in our mentality we will have to change to ensure for future generations a normal state and a normal right to a healthy environment. There's been a lot of stories here about the Chemical Agency, like the Agency can't do without it, and if it doesn't exist, we won't know how to fix the problem when it comes to chemicals and biocidals. I can say that after the famous change and the revolution that occurred when the most public spending and the people wanted out of public consumption, which took over the government to command the state, forgot about production and forgot about agriculture and when there was an explosion of public consumption in this country, when it started to create a huge number of agencies, that we have 160 today, more than the entire EU, when all possible offices and local self-governments and ministries and public enterprises began to be filled, and when all this broke on the back of such a fragile economy that was found, on the one hand through the privatisation that destroyed literally all the production, and that the private sector couldn't shake up, it had no power to bring it out, it happened to us that the vertebral production had broken down and that we came in the situation in which we are today, that we simply our economy was not in a state that we couldn't have been able to overcome the administration. Therefore, the example, which the EU with its administration was, that we should rewrite it, the EU can, it has an economy that can carry this massive administration, and we do not have it. Therefore, abolishing and crying for an agency is not at all socially responsible. In my opinion, I'd shut down all the agencies and I wouldn't leave a single one until one day this society stood on its feet until the economy waved, until we could finance it ourselves. This way we have a situation to take 10% off our salary, maybe another 20%. Many production workers lost their jobs, many small companies and middle-aged ones closed because they could not pay the government's taxes so that agencies could finance these and similar and administrations that ate themselves. So, don't complain about the agencies. There was a story here about the fund. If you're going to fund who was who he was, that he's still funding the environment, then I can say that in the period from 2008 to 2012, the fund didn't fund the environment. Twenty-fivem euros went to more corrupt jobs in terms of "cleaning Serbia", where various campaigns and marketing moves were financed through flyers, T-shirts, newspapers, and far from solving a vital problem in Serbia's environment. So, let's not ask and talk about something that's gone more to a pair of ecological things than something significant when it comes to environmental problems. Our problem is certainly also the opening of Chapter 27. Someone will say that we will very easily close chapter 27 to other chapters and that it is easier. However, I think we are in great error. The hardest thing for us to do is to close chapter 27. It will be the most difficult for us to meet the conditions that the EU requires of us when it comes to the environment. The environmental impact of other sectoral policies in terms of sustainable development is ‘conditio sine qua non’. “ EU entry. We must be fully aware of that. The story of how we're going through negotiations with them to make a deal, believe me, it doesn't matter. We can't conduct any negotiations. It is that what is sometimes called their legal order and what is called their legal regulation in the area, which is one third of EU law in the environment, they will not give up at all. There's no negotiation here. There is a simple fulfilment of those conditions and requirements that are primarily in our interest, but something that is related and the condition of EU accession. That's why it would be wise to get a little more sense when it comes to our organization and access to it. We have to and we can only make deadlines. We can make priorities and we can see and coordinate what's wrong with us, and what we can fix as soon as possible. There are very few things that will eventually allow us to postpone and we must be careful here, because it can easily happen to us to extend the time of entry into the EU. What's more important to say is that inspection surveillance. So far, it has been proposed to form a common body that will jointly control chemicals from both the Ministry of Environment and health, sanitary inspection and market inspection. This has proved to be very bad in practice. Today, the competences of every inspection are specified and I think it will certainly give a little better results, but in these things it was necessary to define who is the monitoring carrier and who is the control carrier in the case of chemicals or when it comes to biocidal products. What I'm going to end with, these laws and all the next ones that are going to come and everything that we're going to believe and do tomorrow and what we want to leave for some future generations are closely linked to our financial opportunities. There are a lot of talk about some 10 billion euros that we need to meet all these requirements that will be put before us. Is everything exactly like that? You know, one thing to tell you, when it comes to the environment and when it comes to investment in the environment and when it comes to Europe's relationship with us when it comes to the environment, I don't think that money is so necessary. We'll never get an investor anywhere easier than when it comes to investment in the environment. Nowhere will we make it easier for them to invest something in a particular concession of the variant and to return it to us later, but to bring knowledge and to maintain that system twenty or already how many years contracts are made to keep it in this country and knowledge and the functioning and health of the environment. I don't know why, and I'm saying that in this way we can solve a lot of things and in such a way reduce a lot of things from what is supposed to be 10 billion euros. Maybe we'll make that system, I sincerely hope, and when it comes to waste management and water treatment, but without it, we'll hardly be able to do this, regardless of all the support and help we'll have. It's up to us to organize, it's up to us to work. It's up to us to figure out how important the environment is. It is up to us to improve this awareness and to introduce teaching into schools, and also through continuous work both on the ground and on media support, which this time the environment in Serbia, unfortunately, is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23270	Mr. Markovic, on what grounds do you want the word? Whose replication? [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: Either the replica, or by the Rules of Procedure, so choose.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: At the presentation of the previous speaker. He can't. You can do business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23271	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, where an MP is said to be obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I was just as the previous speaker spoke he also paid attention to you whether you were fully present in the O.R. and whether you were monitoring the exhibition. Since I see you have not responded, then I am forced to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I think you should have given me the right to reply. It is precisely this part of the exhibition where the previous speaker pointed to any corruption projects and affairs that existed between 2008 and 2012. I am exactly expecting you to protect us fellow MPs, as well as the people who worked in the interests of the state and this society in that period. I expect you to point out that this is not the place where these people are spoken of in this way and that precisely because of the discussion I had and in which I cited a series of examples that speak precisely about what has been done positively in that period, to point out to the previous speaker the harmfulness of his discussion. I would like to point out once again that just through the campaign, which the speaker mentioned, such as "Let's Clean Serbia", five thousand wild dumps in Serbia were cleaned up during that period, that more than 200,000 cubic pieces of waste were removed on an annual level...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23272	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23273	... that tens, hundreds and thousands of people have worked on such and similar projects so that we can focus our legislation and our institutions and our behaviour in this area in the right direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23274	Time. Thank you. I don't think there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that I find it not my obligation to enter into the truthfulness of the debate of the MPs. You can agree with that or disagree, the thing is simple. Therefore, you know that even according to the Rules of Procedure it is not forbidden for an MP to tell the truth, but it is very important how he says it. I didn't feel anything special to you was offensive, and that's why I didn't even react. If I look away from you sometimes, believe me, I listen very carefully to people and try to keep me up to date. I beg you not to honor me, for a simple reason, I am a man responsible, and I do not want to underestimate anyone here, nor to offend. Now, if I'm looking at someone or I'm not looking at them, or I'm looking a little side by side, don't mind me. I'll even try to look directly at the speaker in the future. I want this home treated. The word is given to the People's Messenger Branislav Blazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23275	Article 103. That you gave the previous speaker a line, actually. He had no basis for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Simply, my discussion was a discussion like any other discussion. I was saying that nothing was done in the environment during that period, which it wasn't. Cleaning up some wild dumps that are being re-created, that we have 150 grand today, they say they've cleaned something up, was just an example of how we shouldn't work. It was supposed to work organizedly, make certain regional dumps and solve the problem. So now that we're getting into what whoever did it and you're giving someone your word to talk about it, it doesn't make any sense. The fact is, the situation in the environment after them is catastrophic. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23276	Mr. Blazic, I respect you, but you must admit this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure after all. It's a kind of replica, a replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure you have no right to. I still let it to a certain extent to say what you were thinking. Thank you. I did not ask Mr Markovic alone – do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. All right. I'm guessing you're not looking. Since authorised representatives have used their right to debate in principle, we are now moving on to the list of MPs as reported. The first on the list is National MP Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23277	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, today we are talking about three laws. It is the law on amendments to the Chemical Act, the law amending the Law on Biocidal Products and the Law amending the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. All these laws, each in their own area and in their own way regulate environmental concerns. Therefore, the SDPS will support these laws in the voting day. The Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act were adopted in 2009 and were then drawn up in accordance with EU standards. This means that they provided maximum control of the production, transport and use of biocidal products and hazardous substances, all in order to protect human health and the environment. Today's proposed amendments to these laws are in line with the Budget Law. It also redefines competences and strengthens traffic control, the production of these substances. Also, the change is so much that so far the fees that have been collected from those who trade these products have been converted into taxes and these fees go to Serbia's budget. Earlier that money went to the Chemical Agency. We have heard more than once today in the debate that this agency was abolished in 2012. It would be very important for all the funds that go into the budget to be controlled to the extent necessary for the protection of the environment and for the care of human health. At the same time, these laws clearly define the powers of control by three inspections. These powers have been interfered so far and have not been precisely demarcated. These are: sanitary, market and environmental control. Certainly today of all three of these laws is the most significant law that speaks of changes in environmental pollution control. What is important, this law specifies the process of obtaining a permit for plants that are potential environmental pollutants. This law first speaks of building facilities, new facilities and all newly built plants will have to be built in accordance with the law we are making these days. An operator can start a test run, which was before, but under the constant supervision of a commission that monitors pollution parameters. After all checks, the competent authority shall issue an integrated work permit. The plants that started working earlier, meaning factories or plants that are already working, have a deadline to obtain an integrated permit by the end of 2020. We think it's a reasonable time limit to ensure their control. It is important that this law is done in accordance with the newly adopted Law on Planning and Construction. What is the significance of these laws? First of all, it should be pointed out - the existing rules are still partially in line with EU legislation. SFRJ was still one of the first countries to pass the Environmental Protection Act back in 1970. I think we were a different country and I think we were after Canada, the country that passed the Environmental Protection Act. Unfortunately, with the application of this law and then, and today, they're standing pretty badly. As a result, Serbia is today in an infamous fifth place among 36 European countries following carbon dioxide air pollution. In Serbia, 3.2 tonnes of SO2 per capita are broadcast annually, representing twice as much as countries like economic and economic development such as Serbia are broadcasting. As one of the countries that signed the Kyoto Agreement, Serbia has committed itself to further reducing the emission of harmful greenhouse gases. It's four gases, which are: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxide and sulphur hexafluoride. Increasing the concentration of these gases in the air causes climate change, air pollution, global warming, rising sea levels and various natural disasters. May I ask, Chairman, just for the MPs to be quiet, so I don't mechanically strengthen, there's no need for that. Thank you anyway. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23278	I ask the People's Messengers to be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23279	Thank you. The alternative possibility of contributing to the greenhouse gas emission reduction programme is trade carbon loans. What are carbon loans? Under Kyoto, all signatories are divided into two categories. Industrially developed countries belong to the Annex 1 group. These countries are obliged under Kyoto to cut greenhouse gas emissions after the agreed dynamism, starting from the date of the signing of the Agreement, to some 2050, and to reduce the emissions by an entire 80%. Other groups of countries include so-called "not Annex 1" of the country, which includes Serbia. These are developing countries and they are not economically ready to monitor emission reduction programmes. For these countries, a carbon-credit trade programme has been developed. According to this project, legal entities from developed countries can participate in different programmes to reduce emissions of harmful gases and realise energy efficiency. These investments are worth carbon loans. The purpose of this kind of business is to help host countries, developing countries that are "not Annex 1" countries to make a financially favourable contribution to the sustainable development of the planet, and for economically developed countries, this is according to the Kyoto Protocol, a way of fulfilling the global planet protection programme. For host countries, the introduction of carbon credit is a kind of way of attracting foreign investment, introducing modern technologies, but also a real programme to improve the environment. How do these projects be measured and valued in practice, how are carbon loans traded? I would ask the Minister to tell us if we have any records, some results on the implementation of this programme and what the Government will do to speed up these very good and useful programmes. One carbon credit is the value of a one-tonne reduction of SO2. It is important to note that this is not just about direct reductions in emissions of harmful gases. So these programs can be used much wider. Carbon loans can be realised through investments in renewable energy sources, modernising transport, increasing energy efficiency in mining, deforestation, etc. At the very end, I would like to say that the SDPS in Voting Day will support these three laws, because it has recognised the importance of passing these laws, their harmonisation with EU laws, but it has also recognised the much wider social importance of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23280	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23281	Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, in this set of laws, we have three laws dealing with a single area that has been completely neglected in this country. It's not the only area that's been neglected. Of course, it is not the fault of the current minister, but very little attention is given to everything regarding the protection of the environment, and this is the result of one business-yielding relationship of various authorities to various areas in this country, especially this one. The new government, this one three years ago, has made no special progress in this area in two editions, and this tells us about the position assessment of the European Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee in the proposal for a resolution on Serbia. At point 38, it is said that environmental and climate factors are too small for us and that there must be more to be done to obtain a transitional grade. Of course it is totally secondary to what the European Commission, the European Parliament, Brussels, thinks is what we are doing. It is more important for Serbian citizens to pay more attention to this area. Of these three laws, the New Party MPs will conditionally support two and unconditionally one law. We will unconditionally support the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. We don't have any objections here. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act and in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, we believe that the chance for these solid texts to be completed in a valid manner has been missed. Again, we have mistakes or intentions, however, which are completely pointless, which is the validity of the law the day after the adoption, the day after the publication in "The Official Messenger". It is a completely pointless speed that is otherwise against the Constitution, which is rarely applied in exceptions that have an excuse for it. There's absolutely no reason for that to apply to a law that regulates an area that, one three or four years old, is not regulated properly. So we have, both in one law and in another, to apply the day after the publication in “The Official Messenger. ” It's supposed to be eight days, and we've put that proposal through our amendments, and I hope you'll have an understanding of that proposal. Secondly, we think the three-month deadline for the creation and adoption of sublegal acts is too great. If it's an area that's been unorthodox for a long time, I think it's enough time to prepare sublegal acts. We suggest that, instead of three months, the proposal for the adoption of sublegal acts should be 30 days. I am sure that the ministry, the state administration of Serbia, and some other sources can make an effort to introduce it in a few weeks and then really say that we have passed important laws from important areas of application that has been adequately done quickly. If we had thought of writing changes to the law now, in three months, the whole process could be completed. I expect you to accept these amendments. They have the best intentions. I think we agree on that. In that case, Mr Pavicevic and I will support all three draft laws. Here, in the law amending the Biocidal Products Act, the agency has already been abolished, and the agencies are being transferred to the Ministry. I think that's a good solution. Mr. Pavicevic and I, the New Party thinks it's a classic view of the state administration. So, the Ministry is responsible for something, not hiding behind the directorates, agencies, except in situations where there is a need for a special body outside the ministry. I think it's much fairer and more politically responsible, easier to measure the success and failure and responsibilities of individual officials and authorities, and that the Ministry is in charge of these affairs, that all services be part of the ministry and then clearly sees who is responsible, both positive and negative. And if he's guilty, and if he's responsible for something, that's true, we're not hiding behind some imaginary agencies that are practically used to expand employment. We support these changes. We suggest you accept our amendments and we will vote for all three draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23282	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are finally farmers complete and I will support the law as my previous colleague supported. As far as the law goes, the environment is intertwined in many ways with agriculture. Agriculture can positively affect the environment, but thanks to chemical preparations, thanks to pesticides, Herbicides, Hunicides, thanks to deletation, thanks to humigation, agriculture can also negatively affect the environment, to negatively affect air, water and land. It may be a contaminant, but at the same time thanks to the production of crops, agriculture can be in a certain way and positive for the environment. We who work in agriculture, so we are very aware that biocidal products are often used and that without them, there would be no serious, intense agricultural production. Apart from the preparations intended for agricultural production, there are also preparations for maintaining hygiene, so for sanitary different conditions, etc., so that this law on biocidal products, i.e. amendments and additions to laws, are very serious. Thanks to the need to meet the requirements of Chapter 27, we need to take a serious approach, and I think we're going to need a lot of resources to take care of a very damaged and very damaged environment, the environment in which we're staying. What I don't agree with the previous speaker is that we haven't expressed enough criticism about the use of funds from a fund that has been so defended by some other MPs here. We didn't speak critically enough about the Environmental Protection Fund, the spent five and a half billion dinars, how much was spent, and that, in terms of the environment, other than the marketing, political action that was called: Clean Serbia, or clean Serbia, nothing else happened, except a political campaign that served as a promotion of the political party, political leaders and politicians who were at that time the ministers in charge of the environment. I'll list some examples of how money has been spent from these environmental funds. Some strange people from the Crown in 69 came and then experienced the Environmental Protection Fund as a fund to improve the political campaign, their own personal and political parties' campaigns. In 2009, for example, the Blic newspaper 47.2 million dinars, from the Environment Fund, and in 2011, 60.560,000, which makes up a total sum of 107.7 million dinars, received two newspapers just to report on the activities of the Minister who took care of the Fund, i.e. the spending of money from the Environment Fund, and it seems to me that he was, Mr. Dulic, the chairman of the Management Board of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Disabilities by hand and hat, shared money for his promotion and promotion of his political party. Those 107.7 million are equal to 10,770 agricultural pensions, and for subsidies for imports of used batteries according to former Minister Mladjan Dinkic, a total of 140 tonnes of used batteries and for a certain amount of old tyres spent 1,1 billion dinars or 110,000 peasant pensions. A subsidy for imports of second-hand tyres and accumulators, which were given to certain companies, in order to improve the financial situation of their owners by recycling. I'll also give an example of the recycling of dangerous chemicals. So, a used battery recycling plant in Indjia, built on waterways, without any construction permit, with a false environmental impact study, so it was built for a single plot and the factory was already built on a plot beneath which the water catch was in Indjia. The rural administration, miraculously, has given consent to such a factory above the regional water supply, which has put more than 50,000 citizens living in India at risk. I also have to give an example from Subotica, where former Minister Oliver Dulic, who took care of environmental protection and of a fund so praised for the environment, transferred 17 million dinars to the company owned by his father, Ivan Dulic, whose head was his brother Igor Dulic. So that fund didn't get celebrated. Over 5.5 billion dinars have been spent, and the environment is not seriously collected, but about the officials of the political party that belonged to the former health minister have been taken care of. Also, this was about certain city municipalities. I have to make an example of that at the city dump near Kolubara, which is called the Grebaca, buried hundreds of barrels since 2006, right here with chemical waste, which is supposed to be from the shoe factory, and that Obrenovac didn't have a shoe factory at all. So, in various ways, the environment has been abused and the laws have been misused, the funds have been abused, and I fully support these laws. I also support colleagues from the opposition who will support this law, but we need to be a little more critical of those who have squandered 5.5 billion dinars from the Environment Fund, in order to enable themselves and their loved ones to live more comfortablely with more money, and all to the harm of poor citizens who no longer have anything to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23284	Mr. Markovic, on what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ) You can't replica, you can Rules of Procedure Please, Mr. Markovic, you have no basis for replication. [[Jovan Markovic, from the site: Looking for a replica.]] [[Jovan Markovic, from the site: Looking for a replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How, so he is authorized) No. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: How? He attacked the Democratic Party. He was talking about former ministers. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: He mentioned the Democratic Party. Mr. Balsha, there's no need to argue. I'll give Mr. Markovic that if there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can expose himself. I appreciate it and you know it's my right to judge whether you have the right to a replica or not. I don't see those reasons, because Mr. Risticevic has cited some examples and I don't see if you've found yourself in it. So, here you go, I'm giving you the right to injure the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. Just turn off and reapply for time, so I don't damage you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23285	Your Honored Chairman, I find it very important, that it is extremely important to distinguish whether you are giving me time to injure the Rules of Procedure or the replica? In case you refuse to refute my right to replicate the previous speaker here, then you are seriously jeopardizing the further course of the session, because either you do not follow what it says or you do not think what it says is important for this debate. So the previous speaker also spoke with a very offensive tone about ministers, and about members of the former government, gave very flat-rate estimates here, presented false data, while other people in Serbia were trying to solve the environmental problem, to clean 1,000 and 1000, 100 and 100 wild dumps, some people glued posters to Ratko Mladic. I think it's very important that we distinguish whether there's a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23286	Are you done? Still insisting on the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23287	Yes, I insist that you say whether I have the right to replication or the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23288	Please, I gave you the right to injure the Rules of Procedure and you used a minute and 17 seconds. Please take advantage of your right. You've got 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23289	I appeal to the member of the 106th Honored Chairman, who speaks of the MP being obliged to speak on the agenda point. In the previous presentation, we had everything except that the speaker was talking about what the subject was, and you supported it by not reacting. I want to point out that your attitude from that pay phone is very important to direct the discussion. So, there were people who made big steps in this area from 2008 to 2012, and now they're in a position to suffer criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23291	The context in which this subject is spoken is just destroyed because today in this law you have parts that are adopted right on the basis of criticism, right on the sheets and the accusations that are going on...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23292	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Time. Thank you. (Alexander Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute. You'll all come to terms. Mr. Markovic, please, let's be clear, is there any need for me to read article 106 when it comes to replicas? I don't think I need to read. You know well that this article is provided for when the MP has a replica, and in the end in the last article, the position is said to be decided by the chairman. Therefore, I have not written this Rules of Procedure, and I believe that I am assessing whether anyone has the right to reply or not. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm not going to say I wasn't wrong, but it's my belief that you have no right and I'm still saying that you had no right to a replica. As for the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the work you said, it is not a matter of the chairman's assessment of whether any of the MPs speak the truth or serve the truth. I'm not in charge here, and I can't even be in charge of that. I'm not a judge, I'm not a lawyer, I don't have information, please. You have ways to prove it and don't ask for it. Please don't do that, as you said it would be, if someone else did, I'm saying it in principle. I think you may disagree on Mr. Risticevic's methodology of discussion, but he has such a system. I think he used examples, and he needed to prove it. It's your problem now, both you and us and everyone. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to demand that we enter the Rules of Procedure's breach in the voting day. Yes or no? Yeah. Thank you. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic was first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23293	Thank you, Chairman. So you violated at least four members of the Rules of Procedure just now. I will specifically advertise a member of 108 who says that the order at the meeting of the National Assembly is the old President of the National Assembly and on two occasions you have without any reason and without any need allowed the previous speaker to address us, in this regard speaking and insulting the MPs and to speak various lies and insults. But to me, what bothered me specifically is the fact that he insulted you, too. I have to try to defend you this way. He said you weren't there at one point, and in another moment he said you were half present or something. So, the only ones who are not present at this session today are the DS MPs. So, 18 of them, if I'm not mistaken, the two of them are in the O.R., two, possibly come in third, and they're trying to make sense of something that doesn't really stand, and I don't just know where they get the right to use it as some kind of grudge, but I'm really asking you to try to lead and keep order at this session today that I think is very important. The agenda points are very important and I ask that if possible, this is no longer repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23294	Mr. Markovic, I beg you, I am not asking and asking all MPs not to defend me from other MPs. If I'm not capable of defending myself, I'm ready to leave this place. So please don't defend me. None of you are asking anyone to defend me. I think I have so much chance of defending myself. What someone's trying to do is his right. I can't stop gentlemen here from using the institution's right to injure the Rules of Procedure. That she is being abused or distorted, etc. That's another problem now. But if someone is looking for the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot deny it, as I can deny the right to replication. So here I simply had to give a man the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, but I did not give him the right to reply. So I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure at all. Would you like to make a statement to Mr. Markovic on Vote Day? No, I don't. ) Mr Balša Bozovic, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23295	I thank the chairman, General Arsenovic. So there's no confusion, I'll be brief. Article 104, for the simple reason you yourself have said, I quote, we need to agree on the methodology of the discussion. That's what you said. I think, first of all, that you are a very sacred example of running a session at the Assembly and don't go, please, because it can only be worse by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I want to tell you that not to be worse when it comes to insulting expressions or when it comes to misreading someone's words or when it comes to something relating to another parliamentary group or political organisation to give someone the right as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group to speak because what the predecessors have said, not only Mr Risticevic, but also an authorised representative of the SPS who criticises the government in which he was in power, I think we should just let everyone say what he has and what he thinks. I don't think it's bad that this debate aims at the truth about what it really is about protecting the environment in Serbia, whether it's better or worse. That is the essence of today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23296	Mr. Balsha, please listen to me. Believe me, I would be so happy if the debate took place in the spirit of constructive discussion, giving suggestions and objections to existing laws. So that's, frankly, my wish. I can't influence that. It's a matter of every MP. When it comes to the replica, let's make this a clear situation. If there's anything clear in this Rules of Procedure, it's where the right to replica is defined. You have no reason to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure on that basis. Whether it was true, a lie, a lie, a lie, I can't, you can't understand, that it's not mine to determine whether the MP is telling the truth or not, and I simply admit that I'm in no position to determine it. I confess if it means anything to you. If anyone can preside here and tell any of the MPs here to speak immediately, you are not telling the truth, it is a great honor for him. I don't think so. Please, in that sense, I have no evil intentions here, believe me. I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, especially that you've advertised in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure because you've called on Rule 104 which speaks of the Replic. I kept it quiet, to say the least. So I'm saying there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it's your right to plead on Voting Day. Shall we? No, I don't. ) Then there is the word of the People's MP Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23297	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I'll start with one quote. The quote reads like this – it shows that we are unprepared, that we have no idea, that we have no projects and that we and when we have money do not know what with this money - Aleksandar Vukic, Kopalnik on today. An illustration of the ability, better said incompetence of this government. So, the prime minister says you're all incompetent together in the government, and when you have money, you don't know what to do with it, because you have no projects or ideas. That goes for you, Minister. Quote number two, just earlier from this hall spoken from the mouth of the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, and I think he proudly said, "Today there are 150,000 dumps in Serbia." One hundred fifty thousand dumps! He's proud of it. You've been in power for three years. You say it was a bad thing to do. If Mr. Arsenovic is unable to tell what is true and what is false, what is quite clear, that someone was responsible for certain acts, the court should have already established in three years. After all, this isn't a courtroom, this is a parliament. That's why I want to talk about what you've delivered to the MPs today and what you've done in the last year in this government and what your previous government has done in two years, or you haven't done anything. Perhaps Mrs Mihajlovic left the greatest sign in the Serbian environment. All we're discussing today is the result of her unhappiness and her neglect of the environment. Mrs. Mihajlović, of course you, too, Madam Minister, are also guilty of polluted water flows, and of polluted land, and of polluted air, whose pollution is no longer even measured because you do not have any money. The Prime Minister says you have money, you don't just know what to do with them. Never worse the state of the environment. That is what the draft European Parliament report says, and all the monitors that were conducted in Serbia say so. Never worse the state of the environment. We almost had a situation, Minister, it's about your ministry, and agriculture and ecology, that one of your officers has given a warrant to use chemical substances to destroy rodents in Serbia's fields, which are banned. No one could deny it afterwards, nor could anyone report the consequences of the environment, for our citizens' health, for our children's health. No one can say with certainty today in Serbia, this is what my colleague Karic said, what products we have on our shelves, what products our children use, what toys play, what chemical resources our housewives use, whether they are harmful, carcinogenic or not. There's no record of that. Is there anything more than protecting the environment and protecting Serbia's citizens' health? You, instead of worrying about environmental protection, turned the green dinar into a bottomless budget hole. You rerouted him, Minister, indirectly and at the salary of Dusan Bajatovic in NIS gas and on the salary of the director at Railways, and I don't know where. So your green dinar, which would need to be used to protect the environment, is used by your incompetent, arrogant directors in public enterprises, in which you put them past the competition. Someone's gonna have to answer for that. Personally you, Minister, and the previous minister, because you used a green dinar unintendedly. So, a dinar that is collected as a tax, as an income to protect the environment, it is not used for that purpose. It's used for purposes I've already stated. That is why, Minister, a poor assessment of environmental protection is a disaster and a poor assessment for your work as well. I don't think you guys did anything about environmental science. Actually, I don't remember you talking about it at all. It seems to me that few people in the country even know that we have a Ministry of Ecology in the first place. You are silent, withdrawn, and so were you as an apostle. Such a minister, apparently, needs this ruling coalition for the area that is very important, that it does not wave, that it does not seek what belongs to it and that is how it goes. Unfortunately, it leaves consequences on Serbia's citizens' health. That's why we can't support these laws. That is why we cannot vote for these laws, because they are primarily in line with conventions, or directives that are obsolete, so to speak, because these laws will not improve the protection of the environment. When you come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a report on what is the means of recycling, what about our recycling, why in our streams and our fields of garbage or dump, as the MP says, why these funds are not used for recycling, when you come with suggestions on how to really use these funds and how to make environmental and health in our country come first and not last, then we will support your laws. This way, you came to the congregation to fulfill your form, and no change in this environment will bring about anything. That's why I'm saying it's just throwing dust in your eyes. Of course, our negotiations, you said at the beginning, with the EU on this issue will be very difficult. Fortunately for you, these negotiations will neither be, nor will they be, our misfortune and the misfortune of the citizens of Serbia, because they know well how ready you are for the negotiations in the chapter on environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23298	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23299	I thank you, Chairman. I'm calling for a violation of Members 106 and Articles 107. The Rules of Procedure, given that the previous speaker was severely injured, especially the provision of Article 106(1), which says that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the main search is being conducted. Today it is no doubt clear that the main search is not being conducted either on the Kopalnik, or on what someone said on the Kopalnik, and especially on the way the previous speaker pointed out. I therefore felt that it was appropriate for you to warn him and, later, to use other procedural powers according to the Rules of Procedure. As far as Article 107 is concerned. The rules of procedure, which relate to the respect of the Republika Srpska Assembly, are in a concrete situation and injured, given the way the previous speaker addresses the minister. It is doubtless true that the minister is either, or even present, here to listen to the MPs and even receive criticism. But it is even more doubtless true that the way to address the minister is and how it is necessary to adapt the dignity of the Assembly, and above all to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr. Veseinovic said, is not done. That's why I am convinced, like all the MPs here, that the sanctions provided for by the Rules of Procedure here had to follow, and that, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Arsic, was your duty to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23300	Thank you. In some part of your discussion, I can agree with you on the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but I still have to admit that there are 200 MPs in this assembly who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it should be a little more tolerated towards the MPs of the former regime. I also believe that in this area, such an opposition should be encouraged to discuss even more like this. I would also ask Mrs. Minister to deliver that pollution report to our community as soon as possible, especially when it comes. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The right to replica has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23301	Mr. Chairman, I would like to join the appeal of counterpart Neda Jovanovic. Today is March 3rd, in five days it's women's holiday and I believe that we live in society and build a society where women will be respected in every day, not in one day. And the least I can expect, and the least I can ask from my colleague, Veselinovic, is an apology. We haven't heard a word of the law here, not one of the three laws under discussion. I'm sure he doesn't even know how to list, although now, what laws are being read, which are being discussed, but he knows he's doing a psychoanalysis of Minister Snow White. I apologize to you on behalf of my colleague, Veselinović, for having experienced this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I apologize to your associates as well. I apologize to all the women in the National Assembly, all the women who follow this, because what we have heard now, because of what we just heard, I am ashamed to be in the same room with Mr. Vesenovic, and to treat women in this way. That's how one noise in the National Assembly makes. Even something about all of us again, but also about all the housewives that are in our houses, it concerns every woman who is next to every man, not behind, but next door, I believe we're building such a society. I would ask Mr. Veselinović who said – what kind of chemical resources our housewives use. The same one we used three years ago and four years ago, none new. Since I know there will be no apology, but at least let it now say that the SDS has given up the European path and European policy, because the only argument that has been made is that they will not vote for this law and these laws, and because they are in line with European norms. Is that a change of course of the SDS? Anti-European politics? Come out and say it. You say there are no projects, and what projects did you leave us? Is the example of projects, say, the Deeply in Uzica dump made on the rink, so more money needed to resuscitate the rink than is necessary for the dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23302	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23303	I don't know how Mr. Babic found himself offended. I was always talking to the minister. I said that work does not do quality and many other words that she is also a previous minister, that they are incompetent, that they have destroyed the environment, and that he would tell someone that she is in the right place and that she is a minister. This government is incompetent and incompetent, above all, its prime minister, and he is not a woman. In that sense, there was no gender inequality. No imbalances in terms of dividing ministers into men and women's sexes. They're all equally incompetent, and Alexander Vukic is the most incompetent. He ended up choosing that team. He also elected the parliamentary group represented by Mr Babic and who, when there are no arguments, uses hard words and insults. I don't know what's offensive about it if I say our streams are covered with wrecks, polluted, air polluted, no readings, not even a degree of pollution, that the land is polluted and that in the fields there are poisons that are even said to be illegal. What's offensive about that? So, is it every time we tell the truth to this incompetent government, is it offensive, and does it matter who's sitting in that place? So it has nothing to do with the minister's sex, it has nothing to do with even party belongings. I said, it's true that this place needed a minister who wouldn't raise his voice. They're not going to ask for their money that goes to ecology, they're going to be rerouted for other purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23304	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23305	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to certain colleagues who earn in this room, earn speakers. Mr. Chairman, I can understand that you have spoken to the opposition in a cynical and very offensive way, without respecting what we have spoken and spoken today, that it has in some way an effect on the course of this session, but I did not expect you to turn your head and that you will not deliberately and deliberately notice such outbursts. So this throw is not the first time. This throw has been going on for several hours. Please, if you wish objectively and honestly to chair this rally to engage in these discussions and to warn your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23306	Mr. Markovic, I can understand fellow MPs in the heat of discussion and overstep some boundaries that would not have crossed in some normal discussion, but I will also never allow anyone to say that my session leadership is cynical. Because I listened to a colleague and I let him talk for seven or eight minutes, at least about the agenda point, I was tolerated. I was also a tolerance to the MPs of the other side. Please respect my position that this tolerance is necessary for this assembly to work properly. If we insist on the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure, as you wish, I doubt that my colleague Veselinovic could discuss it this way. I doubt any of you could, meaning, just to bring on that story that you have to quote a member per member of the law or explain yourself. If that's what you want, we can do it, but I think with one tolerance, we can run this session in some normal flow. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the day? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go, another breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand how I can only hurt the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23307	Mr. Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure that you have just done, in the first position, where it is indicated that wrongly interpreted presentation of speakers can lead to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I did not say in a single word in my address that you were civilizing the session, but I had just drawn attention to your cynical comment that was about the opposition and the work of the opposition. So it wasn't my intention to question your overall action of me, not only in this assembly, but in any assembly, I don't think so, but I don't think you were even aware of how cynical and offensive you were talking about the opposition in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23308	Now you've just said worse things. Here, I'll have one more to tolerate. I want to explain my behavior to the opposition. I want the opposition to be good. I want the more he criticises the government, the more I don't mind. The opposition has its arguments. The majority of the representatives have their arguments. Through a good and established criticism that is unfortunately not in this assembly, the government will work even better, it has to work even better, so that it does not come out with bad legal proposals to the National Assembly. Do you want the Assembly and this injured Rules of Procedure to plead? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. Yeah, good. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23309	I thank the chairman. On behalf of all the MPs here, and even the opposition, I urge that this session finally return to normal flows and that your tolerance be somewhat less than it is, because thanks to your tolerance, the representatives of the opposition in the way they do today will do something that the Assembly does not deserve and endanger the dignity of the Assembly in the harshest sense of words. Right now, Mr Markovic has misused the process of authority from the Rules of Procedure and you, using the Rules of Procedure, replicated what is absolutely not allowed. In addition, MP Veselinovic is making a relapse and becoming a rectifier when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure. If you do not respond to such injuries, then we are in a position that this session of the Assembly will not be the same as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they deserve to see this Assembly truly as something, as one of the MPs has just said to the opposition, is the sanctuary of political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23310	Mr Jovanovic, if I were less tolerated, you would have already received a warning, because you did not even mention a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured, you are obliged before your presentation, not now. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Article 106) You also took the same opportunity to replicate Mr. Veselinović and Mr. Markovic through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (No) Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23311	I knew there wouldn't be an apology. Instead of an apology, not to me, apologies to women, even more boastful with even more hatred, with even more political malice, the charges have been repeated. I implore Mr. Veselinović to find this grain, and traces of gentlemanhood within himself, and when the next time he thinks of Mrs. Snezana Bogosavljevic, of Mrs. Mihajlović, of other fellow Members who are not from his group of MPs, here I am ready to endure every ugly word, every hatred he sends. Please direct me, I won't say, I won't complain, I beg you, leave the women alone, let us motivate as many women as possible to deal with politics, that tomorrow and in the future we have more women in both parliament and government and everywhere. Don't do this, as God please. It's one word, and the other is evidence. Behind every word, I think not only in the courtroom, but there should be evidence everywhere. There is no evidence behind Mr. Veselinović's words. There's pure political hatred. Nothing's wrong. The streams have only been polluted for the last three years, the air has been polluted. No, we've lived in oasis, but for the last three years, it's a disaster, but I'll remind you of the European Commission report, in fact, other colleagues, since I see that Tadic's SDS has given up European politics and the European pathway, so they don't care. According to the European Commission's report, progress in Serbia for 2013, where 225 operators of 255 with the obligation, submitted a report to the National polluting Register. So much for Mr. Vesenovic saying, no one has submitted any more reports. I will not use evil words - incompetent. I'll use affirmative words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23312	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23313	Let me just have two sentences to finish, Mr. Arsic. The capable former regime of Mr. Veseinovic, the guru of Mr. Tadic, was capable, but for himself, for their companies, for their boastful wealth, for their godfathers, for their party colleagues, they were capable of themselves. I admit, we're not capable of ourselves, but we're capable of public finances and for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23314	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23315	Chairman, I'm putting you in an awkward situation, because you should probably run this session and talk about the agenda. However, Mr. Zoran Babic's guru, it does not allow what he just called the president...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23316	He's not a guru, he's a colleague of Zoran Babic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23317	But he called my party president guru, so I now call him guru. The SNS party's guru in the Assembly. I don't know if it was Mr. Blair's last visit to Belgrade who taught him to refer to his political opponents and representatives of the opposition party in this way. I don't know, Ms. Secretary wasn't at this meeting with Mr. Blair, if such instructions were given, that the impact on birth sensitivity, that there's talk of insults, of something that will distract the topic from our daily life, and our daily life in your area is that streams are polluted, never polluted, that nobody's taking care of them, that the air is polluted, that 100 measuring devices are not working, because you don't have the means to, that all other parameters in environmental protection are catastrophic, as they are, of course, in other ministries. I don't want these cheap political tricks, Mr. Babic, which the sparrows on the branch know, to fall for. It is simply not the level of MPs of the SDS, we are considering laws, we are discussing them in principle and we are pointing out fundamental remarks. Today we said that environmental protection is at the worst possible level. We submitted amendments trying to correct these laws, and we didn't want to talk about the things Mr. Zoran Babic is talking about. However, when there are no arguments, it is easiest to call someone guru, send an insult, and say that someone has offended someone. What have I done to offend you, Madam Minister? By saying the state of your ministry is bad? It's not an insult to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23318	Right on the line, Mr. Zoran Babic, and we're ending the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23319	It's funny that someone who works in education and who works with young people doesn't know what guru means. I will accept the role of teachers and thank you for this "guru" because you can also see it in the ordinary Wikipedia, that the teacher is an honorable man, a knowledgeer of philosophy, a knower of faith. Is that offensive? Is it offensive for Mr Tadic that he was the guru of the former regime, was the president of the state, the president of the party, the Prime Minister, the president of the assembly, the president of everything, the president of life in Serbia? And now it's bad, now it's an insult? Don't let something that's very thoughtful and the terms I use very carefully, so don't bury everything you've said and what you think about women in politics and women in Serbia at all. Don't bury yourself, don't put on the same archaic, because it's impossible, but it's sad that in education in Serbia, people sit down, surrender, work with young people, someone who doesn't know that pushing is affirmative, something that's good. Nobody said anything about a man who knew philosophy and insulted him. What's Mr. Tadic in the profession? What college did he graduate from? Is he a philosopher, what is it? A scientist of philosophy or guru is a humiliation to you. Mr. Veselinović, this is now another matter for which we expect an apology. I expect an apology for ignorance, since you have not made an apology for the ladies, I do not expect you to give an apology for ignorance, but continue and agree with Mr Arsic, that it is often necessary to let such things go as an eclectic example of how you should not behave and behave in politics, and I think that Mr Vesenović shows with every moment of treatment in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23320	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23321	Thank you. I thought I wasn't responding to my colleague Veselinovic's discussion. I let him say what he thought was smart and was good, but after all, I have to say something, for the sake of the citizens and for the sake of the public. It is absolutely not true that the situation in the environment is as you have stated and it is not true that this government is responsible for such a situation. It's not true that if you don't see me, if I'm unrecognizable to you, that I, along with my team, am not doing the maximum possible under the circumstances, to fix this situation. It's true we don't have a fund. It is true that despite the economic crisis that has hit us, this government will accept the proposal to form a green fund. We've already reached an agreement. I've talked about it today, the Green Fund will start operating since September. From that fund, we will allocate funds for those projects we inherited as unfinished projects, as controversial projects. They are now our brakes so that we can continue to work, that we can provide new funds from European funds, since our domestic national fund is indeed poor. We've worked a lot. We worked as hard as we could. We made a plan and made a program for the last ten months. The condition we inherited is not a condition from two years ago, the state is from ten years ago, and perhaps more. I would ask you, I really think of you as an educated and responsible man, when you put your grades out in public, it's really a serious issue, too sensitive issues. I would ask you to be a little bit more observant not to me, not to the Serbian Government, towards the citizens, and I would ask you, Mr. Vesenovic, when you want to come to the ministry where I will personally present to you what we have done and what we are planning in the next period, only so much I would ask you for the public who really doesn't deserve to be informed about these issues and to bring only a fraction of what we are doing to her well-meaning and everything we do, and we do to the maximum, at least when it comes to the environmental protection sector and the agriculture sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23322	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) You do not have the right to reply, you have asked certain questions to the minister, he has answered your questions and asked you to come to the ministry when you have time to see for yourself the truthfulness of the minister’s claims. So the replica is given if one MP is offended about another MP or participant in the discussion, in this case the minister, or if one of the participants in the discussion is misread. (Janko Veseinovic, from the post: Why should I go to the ministry when the minister is there? ) It is obvious to Mr Veselinovic that you do not care about the truth then, but rather about the debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because when you go to the Ministry and see who is right, then there is no debate, no cameras, no microphones. We're going through the word logs. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23323	If I understand correctly, I can talk about the subject, right? The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the start of saying that the SPS parliamentary group will support all three proposed laws. This was discussed in detail and the argument given by an authorised representative of the SPS, and I will only briefly remain in one of the three laws, simply to add a little more in support of the proposed laws. What I want to say at first when it comes to protecting the environment at all, I think we should consider a few things. First, we are a country that is in the phase of EU accession negotiations, a country which has been defined as meeting EU standards, primarily for itself, and not for the EU, but just to point out in this area of environmental protection, simply for the sake of knowledge that, say experts, 30% of the rules that we need to comply with the EU are currently related to environmental protection. So one, as the minister rightly said earlier, is a lot of serious matter. Is there anything more serious than talking about a subject that affects people's safety and health? There's no more serious subject than that, so this topic is very serious. The second thing I want to draw attention to when it comes to environmental protection, that's where we all need to know, there's a huge amount of material investment, and that's our reality, what it has. Thirdly, we should simply insist on changing people's awareness that this area is the developmental chance of eco-investment, that when we look at it, then we have in mind the overall protection of the environment, but I can't help but think of it without saying one sentence, I talked about it and ten years ago -- the human relationship to the environment kind of looks like a human-to-health relationship, it only values it when it's lost, which means we all have to change our relationship to environmental protection. What is most important in EU rules when this area is concerned and is the most demanding and complex for application, is the directive on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution and that is what we are talking about, because this directive was transposed into the Law on Integrated Prevention and Protection of Environment Control back in 2004 and the most important measure within the framework of the implementation of the Law on the Protection of the Environment which determines the measures and conditions is precisely work on preventive, prevention and therefore called the Law on the Prevention and Control of the Environment. Why do I insist especially on this law? For the simple reason that the best way to solve environmental problems is through an integrated environmental prevention and control system. The best way and I am convinced that for this very reason the government has entered into solving this problem, as none is pushing under the carpet, and this open and realistic one shows, the most important issue is health and the future and the present, but above all future generations. These are all motives, all of which are the reasons why they should be treated more responsibly with these questions. Why do I think it's more important to prevent prevention than, absolutely respect, the polluter should pay and always have to pay, but it's much more important to prevent prevention, prevent and control after environmental pollution. What does the integrated system mean? In fact, it means that anyone who, in any way, any industrial facility, anyone who can influence, who can endanger life, human health and the environment, has to have a license, and in order to get permission, has to meet the conditions, a whole series of conditions that are necessary for such a thing, because I'm going to list some measures of air, water, land and not count further, and these are powerful industrial giants, very important to this country. Let's take if from the existing ones they have until 2000 as proposed, they get permission, only in energy production 32, 32 objects, metal 21, mineral 28, chemical 12, waste management 8 and other 95. Let's say, this minister isn't in your account, regardless of what you said, polluted clean air, clean streams and everything else, this is for a period, unless you were a secret minister 10 months ago, so we didn't know, by the year 2014, 166 and 10 licenses were submitted, of which only three at the republican level. Then what would it mean if you hadn't proposed this change of law today? The change of laws refers first to new ones. The law said -- those who are new, can't start working until they get permission. And the existing have until 2015 to bring in the adjustment programme, etc. What, to close Tent, Iron, Bor, Panchevo, everything else? I don't want to ask why it wasn't done 10 years ago. So your demands are entirely realistic to change the law into these two key things. One is that those who are new can continue even after the trial work, provided that the testing of environmental pollution measurements meets the standard and that it shows a technical review. There is no reason for someone who has completed the trial work to surrender the permit to work, although they meet the criteria of environmental protection up to the next 240 days until they are allowed. I think it's absolutely right what you suggested, and we're giving full support here. After all, what does it mean that the company meets all the conditions? Is he supposed to stop work now after the test permit, after the test work, until he gets his license? They need more money to start working again. So, I give full support for that. Also, when it comes to other, existing operators, we have found such a state that 10 permits have been granted for all 11 years. What do we do now? Let's give another period, and I think it's right, because the application of this law on integrated prevention and environmental control requires large material investment, and many are important areas, branches that are subject to it. I mentioned it a little while ago, and I'll be done with it, just the area of energy. At the door of Belgrade, we have a powerful mining-energy giant supplying Serbia with half, I think it's 50%, electricity, both Kolubara and Tent. But at the same time, they are also the largest pollutants, both air and water and land. There's got to be a solution. And that license, when they get it, by 2020, will contain the conditions they have to meet in order to work. Not to mention Pancheva, Bor, Smedereva, etc. Not to mention industrial waste. Few people know that the highest percentage of industrial waste is ash, with which they still haven't found a way to cope. What I insist on is next. I think it's a good thing you've re-concentrated things in this area, introduced one coordination of inspection services and you've come out with these real measures. What I simply expect and believe in in this government, it insists that this law be applied literally by 2020. Then we will provide our future generations with healthy life, healthy air, healthy water and healthy land. And that is the goal of this government, to make better Serbia, and that means healthier Serbia. We will give full support to the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23324	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr Arsic, the distinguished Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the respected guests of the Ministry, I have four notes that I would like first and foremost to announce to our ministers about our debate on the first item of the agenda of today's session. First of all, gentlemen, we will vote for the adoption of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and I do not have any kind of objection there. The second thing, gentlemen, i.e. the second note, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted four amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law and to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, and I believe that it is also very important for today's debate, and also for the amendment debate, Mrs Bosković Bogosavljevic, to tell us immediately today whether you accept all four of our amendments, because your position here will depend on our position in the day of voting on these draft laws. Here I am trying to convince you of the validity of our reasons for these amendments, and then, of course, the MPs in our National Assembly. You have proposed, Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic, that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Chemical Act, as well as this on Biocidal Products, enter into force on the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and, at the same time, in both proposals of the Law in previous articles, you have announced that the sublaw, therefore, is the only one, to be adopted under this law, that it will be adopted within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. You, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, of course, have announced the argument why it is necessary that this bill, when adopted, enters into force the next day, but part of our argument is now one piece of knowledge, and you have confirmed this this morning, that this field is particularly about biocidal products, two and a half years in some way unregulated. For a year it belongs almost to you, because you're not a full-time minister in this government, and now, here I am, as a MP who reads these drafts of the law, thinking like this. How is it that for a year, for example, no possible damage has been detected and it is now very important that the law enters into force just the next day of publication in the “Official Messenger, ” and this is how we missed the year. Dear gentlemen, it is very important that we stick to some of the regulations that are written in our laws. As a rule, the law should take place on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, and we now refer not only to what is written in our law, but also to what is written, for example, the most recent European Parliament resolution, which will be adopted soon, and where it says that we have in our country an inappropriate practice of adoption of the law by emergency procedure, and we, relying on the fact that what it says in the European Parliament's resolution should serve as a reminder for us, to respond to this, and not, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that we are in practice confirming the founding of criticism, have submitted these four amendments to which we ask that the laws enter into force, such as the word in this third law, on the eighth day of publication, and for the sub-term regulation that we have one month. Please, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, if there is any kind of fear or dilemma whether to adopt the amendment of the New Party MPs, do not be afraid. Here last week, Serbian Progressive Party MPs, and Mr Babic, and Mrs Tomic, and Mr Arsic, and members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, here, Mrs Vukomanovic, Mr Neđo Jovanovic, all voted for one of our amendments amending one law concerning one member, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Please, this dilemma, if you have, to put it aside and now say whether you accept our argument and all four amendments. I had a third note, language remarks, for example. Let the practice of our ministers, and Mr. Loncar is, for example, the champion, including Mrs. Mihajlović and other ministers, and you, not to read the bill in that final version before it comes to the Assembly, and then we have some gaps that make an impression of indifference and superficiality in the work. Here, in this proposal for a chemical law on page 17, it is explained: “The provisions of this Law of Chapter VIII... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Well, that's probably chapter 8, but somebody didn't read the final. It's streamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23326	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23327	I'm sorry, Mr. Arsic, I'll just finish my sentence and if I may put an end to it. We need to distinguish Roman and Arabic numbers, to know what the spelling, grammatical rules are, and to send the bill's written proposals to the Assembly to discuss them. I have one note left, but there's not enough time. Here, for five and a half minutes, indeed Mr. Arsic has been tolerated now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23328	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for a discussion where you really tried. I can say that I voted in favour of your amendment because as a People's MP for me there are no political parties when it comes to the state's interest and everything that helps the state we will always support. I also appeal to the editorial commission in the government of the Republic of Serbia not to make any further arguments to Mr Pavicevic, that he does not have to work so hard to find literal and spelling mistakes in future work. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23329	I must also note the difference in communication between the earlier insults of SDS, Mr Tadic and Mr Veselinovic, and the treatment of my colleague Pavicevic, with much more attention, with much more tolerance, with much more culture. After all, we would have to send such a message from the National Assembly, as well as from all other bodies, and from all of our society at all. But what bothered me and what I would really make a big difference, anyone who does -- he's wrong. It's a good thing the mistakes in the law are spelling -- point, point, subpoint, maybe some time and a swallowed letter. But what it is and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, it is also trying to manage to regulate every area, that what goes to the burden, if it is a burden of Mr. Loncar, is not a literal error, but that Zojo's law was passed in the National Assembly, although most of the MPs sitting in front of Mr. Pavicevic did not make such a burden to come to the session when it was voted and to press one key and vote for Zojo's law. It is the ministry, it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was done by other SNS MPs and our distinguished colleagues from other parliamentary groups. Is it also a literal mistake in some law that a fund was formed to treat children from special diseases beyond the borders of our country? Let's not put an equal sign where it doesn't belong. I know because I was in opposition how hard it is sometimes to criticize something that can't be criticised, but when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23330	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23331	... But when it comes to the law of Zoe and the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad, when it comes to these laws that are in the assembly procedure today, it is very difficult to find a mistake that is directly related to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23332	Thank you. Comrade Pavicevic, would you like a replica? A man commends you, and you seek a replica. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr Arsic, the distinguished Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the distinguished guests of the Ministry, I have one note for Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and one note for Mr Babic and two suggestions for Mr Babic. First, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, please tell us do you accept our amendments? I've explained what this is about, about our amendments. I think it's time to say right now whether you accept, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, or not. The other thing, as far as Mr Babic's performance is concerned, I have to make one note, the mistakes, as regards this progressive rule in Serbia, were also substantial. Well, where can we go from e.g. Mr. Selakovic, for example? How many times have we had to change the same matter here that he's been wrong more than once? Last week, we had to respond to the amendment that everyone voted for the amendment here in order to at least one bill, or law on which Mr Selakovic made major mistakes, bring to some normal, respected gentlemen. Secondly, I propose to Mr Babic that in the spirit of a good parliamentary practice and democratic customs heed the arguments for these four amendments and invite all SNS MPs to vote for our four amendments because they are very well-founded, respected gentlemen. It's parliamentaryism. The second proposal for Mr Babic, Mr Arsic, the European Parliament, as we said here this morning, did not just intervene on the environment, where he said – it is a poor condition, but said that our state has shown its inability to intervene on the principle of academic integrity. Put on the agenda our bill amending the Law on Higher Education, to finally adopt the principle of academic integrity as one of the basic principles of our higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23334	Time. Whether counterpart Babic will vote and a parliamentary group, it cannot prevent him from pleading, but I would violate the Rules of Procedure if the minister, the mandated representative of the proposings, at a session where the debate was held in principle was made public when it comes to the session when the debate is being held in particular. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23335	I would not like to believe that Mr Pavicevic insists that today we declare the amendments because he does not want us to discuss amendments in the day that he does not come to the Assembly and that he does not fold his sleeves and try any further arguments to convince us. He can't go halfway. This is the first half of every law, little in principle, little in particular, so by the end of the week, maybe even the beginning of next week we'll have a final solution. Just a little patience. Speaking of Mr Selakovic and those remarks you have made, it seems to me that you, Mr Pavicevic, have remained in debt to the National Assembly and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to tell which notary you said existed in Serbia, that it has earned 180,000 euros in a month or to admit that you have invented it. It's not bad. Say, you owe us that thing you said for this assembly pay phone. As far as academic honesty is concerned, I can talk about it with you, but it seems to me that this morning Mr. Zivkovic was talking about it. I beg you, I appeal to you, if someone has this much contact with the academy and academic honesty that he may have once been to an Academy at a party or at a gig, or by the Academy passed when he went to some good gigs that used to be, and now they're being performed at the Academy of Engineering. There's also the colleges I went to and the colleges I attended. There is little devastation of the subject itself in this way, although I respect both the way and the opportunity and everything to make political arrangements and treat it. As far as our controversy is concerned, I am sure that it will spill over and I have accepted the hand given and I have accepted this tennis challenge, so I believe that in a few days, Mr Pavicevic will be far more calm, even in that matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23336	Time. Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, you want to tell us who that notary is, right? I'm waiting with impatience. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr Arsic, the distinguished Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and the honored guests of the Ministry, three remarks to Mr Babić, with a reminder that it would be good for Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic to now tell us whether our argument for our four amendments to the two draft laws is acceptable, because I do not think it is necessary for this kind of argument to wait two days for us to find out what the answer is. Tell Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, freely here, as Minister of the Government of Serbia, the argument is good, we accept and then I can immediately move on to Mr Babic's first note. If you would do it, and even if you don't do it today, but in two days, for example, if we discuss the amendments Thursday, I will, as I have done so far, gentlemen, come to the National Assembly session. I missed a very small number of sessions. I've been sitting here a long time. I'm reading every bill of law. I am prepared that if Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic accepts the amendments today and Mr Babic says – we also accept, that I come and dedicate my five minutes to the declaration of another victory not only of the opposition, but of the victory of democracy in Serbia, gentlemen. I guess that's supposed to be our goal here. Mr Selakovic, the second note, himself, accepting a large number of amendments to the bill concerning notaries, admitted that he had made a mistake, that he had, so to speak, and some of his notaries and had not to come here last week once again to face his mistake, respected gentlemen, and about academic congratulation, every MP here has the right to declare his position, to vote on proposals, and where you will be better than to have MPs who in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23338	Time, fellow Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23339	... The higher education system wants to introduce academic honesty that they are not the MPs of the SNS, gentlemen of honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23340	Mr Pavicevic, since you are constantly coming to the part concerning the presidency and the conduct of the session, I am seeing you as a legalist and a man who wants to be respected, so if you would allow the minister to plead on your amendments, I would violate the Rules of Procedure, and I am sure that you do not want to do so. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23341	Dear Chairman, respected Minister Boskovic, colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, today we have one set of laws on the agenda that has been unfairly forgotten and one set of protocols, i.e. the proposal for a contract, which are also related to the area of environmental protection, are also related to forest management and veterinary and sustainable tourism. These are all some areas that are practically coming up with certain legislative proposals that are heading towards European integration. What's good, which is that these three legislative proposals, which we have today in terms of alterations and additions, essentially give much larger control mechanisms. Controls in terms of pollution, controls in terms of granting permits at the time when the plant starts to operate, regardless of which it will not get an integrated permit, 240 days has a deadline to be monitored by the inspection bodies and commissions formed by the Ministry and thus essentially open the possibility for all investors to define their status, in extreme legal flows, from the start of their business, whether it is a domestic investor or a foreign investor. All those criticisms that were sent to you, Madam Minister, don't stand at all. As for chemicals and biocidals, this strengthening of the control mechanism essentially shows that we are going in one direction to talk about in a reasonable time, which is the new inspection control law. It is obvious that we need to comply with standards, not only of the EU, but of developed economies in terms of inspection supervision, which is to try to group inspection controls on local self-governments, for now only in cities and municipalities, and later, when we develop the economy and capacities in this inspection work of different types of ministries, then it will be possible at the level of the entire government. When we talk about environmental protection, I would talk more today about this green economy that we need very much. It is in line with certain standards and the EU Sustainable Development Strategy by 2020, which implies that all these laws are a kind of mechanism that should create new jobs, which should apply new technologies in the field of environmental protection, which should ensure stable budget functioning. This means "sustainable." As much as you earn, so much as you spend. That's why in all countries they talk about this green fund and the principles on which they operate. You know, the past of Serbia belongs to irresponsible politicians who led this fund by 2012 in one way, which in 2012, when you were not a minister, remained in debt to economic operators and NGOs, out of seven billion dinars. Of these seven billion dinars, about two billion dinars are due to recycling, which is eventually defined and returned. That part of the financial resources my fellow MP, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, spoke about this irresponsible spending of our money, all Serbian citizens, and 46 million dinars for the needs of the media campaign, and about a billion dinars for the needs of a campaign that talked about cleaning Serbia, and then working alongside certain boxes of paper fans and paying someone for it to write the name of the campaign, but also paid some 2-3 million dinars to NGOs who were doing the study "How the environmental protection and pollution affecting women in menopause". I remember when the former minister was Mrs. Mihajlovic, when she spoke, when she read the list of projects that were paid. We have no objection to such studies being funded, but Serbia is in no position to give money for such projects. So, the moment you had a problem with the sustainability of the budget, whether you'd pay for social benefits, pensions, whether workers of state institutions will receive salaries, you're in no position to raise loans and to pay for missed projects. Not to mention that this past, this irresponsibility belongs to people who have done completely inappropriate strategies, strategies in which Serbia predicts 26 municipal dumps, of which capacity is simply invaluable, because so many projected waste per capita has been so much bigger than really the real essence of the disposal of Serbia's citizens' waste. So you've given yourself the opportunity to borrow twice as much money as you need, and trust me that these 10 billion are one projection in which, if we're smart, there won't be a need to borrow, but it'll take twice as much money, because it'll be a kind of joint investment with all the interested domestic and foreign investors. That's what my colleague Blazic was talking about. If we're smart enough, organized enough, with much less financial resources, we'll be able to handle Chapter 27. You know, and our colleagues in the region didn't go famously through negotiations with Chapter 27. Their entry into the EU today costs 27m dinar waste. It means they haven't closed all the wild dumps that were designed until they enter the EU and therefore pay for certain financial resources, as a kind of taximeter that keeps knocking on you. They've committed themselves to closing down another 16 dumps by next year. Hence, it is up to us to pursue a specific goal. The objective says and projects, around, the EU with the Sustainable Development Strategy. In this strategy, in addition to the green economy, we have sustainable tourism, and we have a part that concerns the preservation of cultural heritage. So certain actions that are accompanying actions in relation to environmental protection, and they can bring a lot of things about the revenue side of the budget. Secondly, when we talk about the future, we should certainly say that this area needs one consensus, but not just a consensus of political parties, but a consensus of all relevant entities in society. This means that in addition to political parties, a non-governmental sector that really participates actively in the work of the Environment Protection Committee and has always been a good participant. After all, from the Brussels report, one and the other screenings, we see that we were really ready to talk to the EU. Although much has not been achieved, we have been a relevant talker on chapter 27. We were asked questions and we were giving answers, but we were also asking questions that the EU didn't have an answer right away, but waited for it to write to us and deliver eventually. It shows that we still have a certain level of consciousness about all this. And let me tell you something else, this crucial call by 2012 had certain sessions called – green sessions, which brought over 200 legal solutions, which had over 1500 amendments and it was called one so-called so-called. - Green sitting. We are about now on some 300 legal solutions needed for chapter 27. We are on our way to reach the closing of chapter 27. 500 more legal and sublegal acts. So they should make 30% of the total legal regulations in all areas. This means that we are really going one way in which we are aware of how much we do not know, and that is of great importance, above all this Serbian Government, which, regardless of what stands there red in the reports that we simply did not reach a certain level, we were not even able, because for two years we were engaged in consolidation of public finances, we really had an agreement with the IMF. We fought hard for this agreement, carried out economic reforms, passed certain laws, and those legal solutions, especially now when we talk about the Law on Planning and Construction, directly related to environmental laws. That's why this law isn't in this set of laws today, and that's good, because it shows that there's a lot that we have to change. First of all, we need to change for many reasons, as you can see, and our security policy is in the region and changing in the EU. You can see that wars are waged not only by religious initiatives, but also by economic or easier availability of energy. So, EU energy policy is changing. It's shaped so-called. The European Parliament's 37-nation energy union, where both EU members and Western Balkan and Turkish countries will be. As you can see, the concept is to apply renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in the area. It's all about protecting the environment. You're so-called. Smart cities should consist of smart buildings, which will have all of this, but also have a waste management system, an insensation system, and that's what we're going to have to work on in the future. What I have proposed in particular at the Ministry of European Integration, it is that perhaps we can not only agree politically on these issues as political parties, but I also think that in the context of certain implementations of the Brussels Agreement, as Serbia can indeed in municipalities where there are major pollution we can in some ways really solve many problems together with all national minorities, which simply shows that this topic exceeds both the borders of states and regions and the world. Therefore, Serbia is extremely responsible here, and this government. Normally, as a resolute minister, you have just one large portfolio in which many MPs from opposition parties have made one suspicion that these resolutions are being joined, but just by joining these resolutions, it is much easier for you to today, when you discuss these laws, embrace both veterinary and forestry and sustainable tourism and all that you can practically solve much easier on this integrated concept. That's why we're talking about integrated environmental management. I will read, the Environmental Protection Agency has given that the concentration of suspended particles related to pollution affecting the quality of air today is minimal in the city of Belgrade, which shows that indeed, this government and the Agency as part of your ministry are essentially doing their job in the best possible way. Is that enough? I'm sure he didn't. I'm sure we all want it to be much better. As for the green fund we're talking so much about, all the countries in the region have defined a particular fund in the way they were able. Some have linked to energy efficiency, some to part of the ministry, some to the Environment Agency. Only Romania, like Macedonia, has no fund, but has a collective operator. So the state grants certain subsidies to that operator who's going to do the job completely for her. What should be said is that the support of our recycling industry at this time, in a state where our finances were really very difficult to sustain, really respected, as much as it could, in the end and returned all those debts in 2012. Serbia is on the way to European integration today, chapter 27 is ahead of us. It's up to us to work, it's up to us to fight. It's good to hear today that we're going to have a budget fund, it's good that this fund will be under control, practically the Ministry of Finance and under the control of the entire government, so our past mistakes will never happen again. I hope that in the future, really when you come here you will come more because of the laws in the field of the environment than from the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23342	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Zvonimir Stevic, and let the MP Nikola Jolovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23343	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's presentation in the context of the first joint principled review of laws in the field of agriculture and environmental protection, I will talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. Amendments and additions to the law have resulted from perceived shortcomings in the current application of the law, technical-administrative changes, as well as financial commitments and general reforms that the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment implements. It is precisely because of the importance of the law and the importance of citizens that I will point out some of the basic preconditions for the use of biocidal products, before the very presentation of the bill. The biocidal product shall be considered as any active substance or mixture containing one or more active substances, prepared in the form in which users are supplied, whose purpose is to chemically or biologically destroy, deter and prevent or control undesirable organisms. Any organism whose presence or adverse effects are undesirable affecting human health, their activities and products used or products on animals or the environment shall be listed in undesirable organisms. Accordingly, the types of biocidal products are grouped as follows, under one: disinfectants and biocidal products for general use; under two: preservatives; under three: biocidal products for the control of pests and under four: other types of biocidal products. In order for biocidal products to be used, it is necessary to be included in the chemical register representing the chemical database in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the chemical registration is to monitor and minimise harmful effects on human health and the environment. Exceptions from the entry into the register are chemicals which are placed on the market as biocidal products, plant protection products, medicinal products and medicinal products used in human and veterinary medicine, cosmetic products, food, food additives and flavourings and food for animals and additives for that food. The legal obligation to register chemicals shall have, under one: a manufacturer; under two: an import and under three: a further user, a legal person or an entrepreneur using chemicals for the production of mixtures placed on the market. The biocidal product may be placed on the market if a marketing authorisation has been granted or a solution has been made to enter that biocidal product in the provisional list for the delivery of the technical file and if it is classified, marked, packaged and has a safety list. The exemption from those rules may only be in the event of an unforeseeable occurrence of harmful organisms which cannot be contained in biocidal products for which a solution for the entry in the provisional list has been adopted or an authorisation granted. An admission licence may be withdrawn for placing on the market, the period of validity of the provisional authorisation shall not exceed 120 days. A biocidal product for which no entry solution or approval has been issued may only be placed on the market for scientific research and development purposes. Most of these rules in the area of biocidal products have been implemented or complied with by European Union regulations which began to regulate this area since 1998 by adopting a directive on biocidal products, which has been implemented by setting up a two-stage system for the approval of biocidal products. The first degree is the assessment of the active substance and the approval of its use in a particular type of biocidal product at EU level and the second degree of assessment of the specific biocidal product and its authorisation. the granting of authorisation for the placing on the market of that biocidal product at EU Member State level. The new Regulation on biocidal products 528 since 2012 was adopted on 22 May 2012 and is applicable from 1 September 2013. The basic concept of the new regulation is similar to that of the previous i.e. all biocidal products placed on the EU market must be authorised, and the active substance contained in the biocidal product must be pre-approved for that type of biocidal product, with the possibility of authorisation for the whole EU market, in addition to the authorisation of biocidal products at national level for certain Member States, as well as other newspapers, in order to improve the functioning of the EU biocidal products markets. Dear Members of Parliament, the reason for the adoption of the law consists in the need to bring the Biocidal Products Act in line with the Budgetary System Act and to ensure the functioning of the budgetary system. Accordingly, the essential systemic reform changes concern the solutions provided for by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, under which, instead of the former fees made by the Chemicals Agency, fees will now be prescribed to be revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget and to comply with the Chemical Law, that is to say, with a decision to suspend the validity of the decision establishing the Chemical Agency and to assume competence in the field of the management of biocidal products, firstly by the Ministry of Energy, Development, the protection of the environment, and now by the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. In particular, Articles 5 and 12. The bill found that, instead of compensations made by the Chemicals Agency, the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget are also paid. In Article 8. The draft law defines the holding of a dangerous biocidal product in a sales space and the way in which that space is marked. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, The proposal for a law is a precise control of the application of the Biocidal Products Act. In the case of a Member State of the The draft law specifies the authority of the inspector to carry out inspection controls. Article 25. The draft law provides for a transitional provision which determines how the procedures will be concluded, thus reducing legal independence for economic operators whose requirements are to initiate proceedings before the entry into force of this law. I would stress that any proposed changes and additions do not deviate from the solutions that exist in European regulations. Also, the proposed amendments and additions to the law will have a positive impact on, under one, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will be directly charged by taxis, under two, on the independence of carrying out the operations of biocidal products through organisational forms of state administration without the confidence of the business of state administration to other legal persons, i.e. public agencies and under three, on the work of inspection services, inspections in the field of environmental protection, sanitary, veterinary and market inspections in carrying out inspection. The demarcation of the jurisdiction of four inspections shall ensure a clear division of jurisdiction, i.e. the authority of the inspector in carrying out inspection controls. The environmental inspector shall carry out inspections of the continuation of the biocidal product, the entry of the biocidal product in the provisional list, the classification, packaging, labelling and advertising of the biocidal product, the production and delivery of the safety list of biocidal products, and the implementation of provisions of this law which are not within the jurisdiction of the sanitary, veterinary or market inspector. The Sanitary Inspector shall carry out inspection of the use of biocidal products in professional users using biocidal products for the performance of the registered activity, as well as in areas, facilities and activities under sanitary supervision, other than the use of biocidal products in facilities where veterinary activity is carried out in accordance with specific regulations. The veterinary inspector shall monitor the use of biocidal products in professional users using biocidal products for the performance, registered veterinary activities, as well as in areas, facilities and activities under veterinary supervision. The market inspector shall carry out inspection of the compliance of the conditions for holding a dangerous biocidal product in the sales space and the manner in which that space is maintained. Due to all of the above, the SPS parliamentary group will support proposed legislation on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23344	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Nikola Jolovic, and let the National MP Gordana Topic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23345	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act should be adopted because the proposed amendments provide for the following - the harmonisation of the Chemical Act with other systematic laws governing the budgetary system, i.e. The law on the budgetary system, ensuring the functioning of the budgetary system and the economic instruments system and ensuring the financing of chemical management. This law introduces fees for the most complex procedures implemented under the Chemical Law, which have no economic justification for their funding to fall on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law lays down the basis for the payment of a eligibility fee for the use of a chemical name, an assessment of the data it provides for the implementation of the prior notification or the procedure for issuing, as well as the extension of the authorisation for the performance and traffic and the authorisation to use particularly dangerous chemicals and the assessment of the technical file of reference to the invoice, the placing on the market of chemicals that cause concern. The draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act does not touch the essential solutions given in the Chemical Act. The proposed amendments and additions shall provide for the payment of fees for procedures conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection under the submitted requirements in the field of chemical trafficking in accordance with European regulations and practice that the costs of the proceedings are borne by legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs who benefit from the placing of chemicals on the market, not from the full collection of these costs from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. During the preparation of the amendments and additions to the Chemical Act proposed, it has been estimated that, in accordance with European regulations and European practice, it is necessary to differentiate the charge through fees. In this way, it is achieved that the principle is applied in the Republic of Serbia that those who put chemicals on the market achieve profits is borne by the burden of administrative chemical management. Since the Chemical Act has not taken over the procedures that are being conducted in the EU, it is not even the procedure for issuing licences for foreigners that cause concerns, or the smiles that contain them. The law provides for the obligation to provide information on those substances on the basis of which all risk mitigation measures are to be assessed and whether these substances are used in the permitted uses. The adoption of this law is not contrary to domestic regulations governing the budgetary system or relevant EU regulations, nor is it fundamentally changing the policy of governance of chemicals defined by the Law on Chemicals of the Republic of Serbia. The payment of taxis is subject to a special regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that provides for the payment of taxis in accordance with this law. The proposed amendments and additions of the Chemical Act shall be subject to the specification of the payment of taxis in the field of chemical management and, as follows, to the treatment of the requirements for the assessment of justification for the use of the chemical name, to the registration of chemicals in the chemical register, to the assessment of the data provided for in the implementation of the prior notification procedure and to the lynx procedures, to the issue of authorisations for the operation of the traffic and to the authorisation of the use of particularly dangerous chemicals, and to the assessment of the technical file on the surfact and the placing on the market of chemicals causing particular concern. The draft law will have an impact on the following: producer, importer, exporter or further user of chemicals, by paying a fee to those operators on the basis of submitted requests. The work of inspection services in the exercise of inspection supervision by providing a clear division of jurisdiction, i.e. the authority of inspectors to carry out inspection controls, by disseminating the competence of three inspections. The environmental inspector shall monitor the classification, packaging, labelling and advertising of chemicals, the content and delivery of the safety list, the protection of chemical advisers, the registration of chemicals in the chemical register, the placing on the market of particularly dangerous chemicals, the import and export of certain dangerous chemicals, as well as the enforcement of provisions of this law, for which no sanitary or market inspector is responsible. The Sanitary Inspector shall carry out inspection of the application of restrictions and bans on production, placing on the market and use of chemicals and products intended for general use. The market inspector shall carry out inspection of compliance with the conditions for holding dangerous chemicals in the sales space and the way in which that space is marked. The effects of the adoption of this law justify the costs of its application, as its adoption provides for the financing of the chemical management system, which will be partly financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in part from legal entities that profit from placing chemicals on the market by prescribing adequate taxis in accordance with the law. In this way, the whole burden of funding for the system is not being passed on to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but is being applied to the principle that is also applied in the EU. In the day to vote, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23346	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gordana Topic has the word, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23347	In the context of my address, I will talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, which, together with the two other proposals we are discussing, I find extremely important. The importance of the law and how important it is to make them more quality and more applicable also to the fact that the International Labour Organisation, because of the great impact and the negative consequences of chemical agents, is to monitor the statistics on the occurrence of incidents and consequences. So, according to the International Labour Organisation, about 40% of the incidents occur in production plants, 35% of the incidents occur in transport, and about 25% in storage. In our country, in the last 15 years alone, numerous industrial incidents have been caused by irresponsible and insufficient chemical management. Responsibilities will be strengthened by strengthening inspection supervision of all phases of chemical management, from production, through storage and transport, to use. According to the applicable law, the jurisdiction of environmental inspection, sanitary inspection and market inspection in the exercise of inspection control over chemical management is not fully delimited. Also, according to the existing legal solution, it is envisaged that the relevant ministries educate the joint body with the agreement to carry out inspection tasks. So far, the practice of this institute has shown that it is ineffective because of the lack of clear division of jurisdiction. The proposed changes and additions will be extended to the competences and will provide for a clear division of powers in the exercise of inspection supervision. Thus, the environmental inspector will carry out inspections on the classification of packaging, labelling and advertising of chemicals, the content and delivery of the safety list, the provision of chemical advisers, the registration of chemicals in the chemical register, the placing on the market of particularly dangerous chemicals and detergents, the import and export of certain dangerous chemicals, and the implementation of provisions of this law for which no sanitary or market inspector is competent. The Sanitary Inspector will carry out inspection of the application of restrictions and bans on production, the placing on the market and use of chemicals and products intended for general use, and the market inspector will monitor the compliance of conditions for holding dangerous chemicals in the sales space and the way in which that space is marked. At the same time, the proposed legislative solution will contribute to improving public funds management and more efficient chemical management. The essence of these changes will apply to the introduction of taxis instead of fees, which will be paid by legal persons involved in the production, import and transport of chemicals. This ensures continuity in the security of the chemical management system, as well as the legal framework for the collection of taxis for procedures carried out under this law. The necessary conditions are also provided for the financing of the efficient conduct of chemical management operations, enabling, among other things, legal entities to provide for the costs of chemical management in their business activities. The proposed amendments and additions shall provide for the payment of fees for procedures conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection following submitted requirements in the field of chemical transport, in accordance with European regulations and practices. In this way, it is achieved that the principle is applied in the Republic of Serbia that those who place chemicals on the market and earn profits bear the burden of administrative management of chemicals, rather than the burden of paying these costs on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. According to the legal solutions which were valid until the amendment of the law in 2012, the fee for issuing licences for the operation of the traffic particularly hazardous chemicals to the importer, the producer, or the further user, amounted to 25,000 dinars, while the amount of the fee for issuing the traffic authorisation for particularly dangerous chemicals to the distributor, which was not an importer, producer or further user, was 15,000 dinars. These fees were paid to the Chemicals Agency, which was the regulatory body, and besides, it was also responsible for issuing administrative acts concerning the management of chemicals. It's not a meaningless number, because, for example, In 2012, the Chemical Agency only paid a sum of 79,220,000 dinars on the basis of the entry into the chemical register. After the amendment of the 2012 Chemical Act, only administrative revenue tax remained, and according to this 480 dinar fee, which has been charged since 29 September 2012, when the Chemical Agency was abolished, is about a million dinars. Of course, the new projection of expected revenues based on the payment of taxis, under this law that we are discussing today, will depend on both the level of taxis to be prescribed and on which administrative procedures will be applied and in what number. The funds charged by taxis will be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and this way the proposal for a chemical law is harmonised with the regulations governing the budgetary system. The regulation allows for the introduction of another form of public revenue, i.e. payment in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Dear People's MPs, I would point out that the Chemical Act is harmonised with relevant EU rules in the field of chemical governance, except in the part relating to centralised procedures, which are carried out in the EU by the European Chemicals Agency. One of these procedures is to issue a permit to use the most dangerous substances by authing. These most dangerous substances are listed in the list of substances that cause concerns taken over from the EU. Getting authorisation in the EU is a very expensive and long-term administrative procedure for manufacturers, importers, or further EU users, which encourages them to replace them with safe alternatives. Finally, I can conclude that amendments and additions to the laws will affect producers, importers, exporters and still users of chemicals that will pay the tax on their applications. Then on the work of inspection services that will be fully aligned with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, whose income will be charged taxes and the most important for protecting the health of citizens and the environment. In view of all of this, the SPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23348	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23349	Dear Vice-President, Mr Arsic, Madam Minister with Associates, Honored People's MPs, Honored Citizens of Serbia, this law, in fact, sets of laws have their stops in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted it to us to the MPs here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April 2014. Just to remind you, since some are quickly forgetting, it is the most comprehensive, most detailed, most accurate exposé of all previous 72, from the time of the first president of Prot. Matija Nenadovic in 1805 to today. Dear People's MPs, we have a set of laws in the field of protecting and improving the human environment, but I don't think about all of us talking, I'm going to say something very short on the law on integrated prevention and environmental pollution control. When environmental laws are on the agenda, then they attract the attention of a large number of our citizens but also of different experts and scientists from different areas of our lives. It is good for ladies and gentlemen that there have been changes and additions to this law, and they relate, among other things, to the beginning of the work of the facility which is obliged to obtain integrated permits under the Law on Planning and Construction that we recently brought, in order to ensure the continuity of the work of the plant. Respected Serbian citizens, the former government has not approached the problems of protecting and improving the environment with a certain degree of seriousness, as the members of the opposition parliamentary benches have said, especially when it comes to spending the financial resources allocated to this very important area of our lives. Here's the evidence. First, a former environment and spatial planning minister in the former government, DS, and was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote -- paid for billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia" for more than half a million euros, finished quote, DRI. As you know, when I quote as my predecessors, I'm not quoting in my mind, I'm quoting state institutions. Secondly, the former environment and spatial planning minister, who was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, quote -- paid half a million euros for advertising in a daily newspaper, completed the quote, DRI. Third, the same environment and spatial planning minister in the former government of the DS, and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I quote -- for the development of the Clean Serbia site, paid 25,000 euros, finished the quote, the state auditor's report. Fourthly, the same environment and spatial planning minister paid for the support of the lioness on Lake Palic, the DRI report, and published by Politika, 23. Nine. In 2012, on page 12. Peto, and former minister in the former government, Mladjan Dinkic, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, told us the national MPs at the session of 21st of June 2012, I quote – Dulic used the Fund for Environmental Protection without purpose for the election campaign DS from subsidising companies that import batteries and waste tires to recycle them, finished the quote. So says Dulic's former counterpart in the former government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, behind the billboard "Let's Clean Serbia" former DS minister, along with his partners, has cleared your pockets, and to the point. Amendments to this Act allow operators to submit requests for the obtaining of an integrated authorisation prescribed by law or obtaining and completing documentation with the requirements for the issue of an integrated authorisation. In this way, we provide the competent authorities with the appropriate degree of dynamics of the solution under the requirements in question to issue an integrated permit, i.e. the facilities for which the Republic of Serbia will negotiate transition periods with the EU, as my predecessors have said. One of the objectives in addition to other amendments to this law is to specify the similar application of the General Administrative Procedure Act to issues of movement, management and completion of the procedures for the issue of integrated authorisations not made by this law. Respected Serbian citizens, it is not true that MPs from the opposition benches said they did not spend on non-domestic funds. How wasteful DS and its environment and spatial planning minister were, it also says, that his delegations "used 22 people in certain destinations in 2009, 22 members of Dulic's delegation, were in Copenhagen, Denmark, 11 days". It is, in my opinion, a record of numbers in this House's history. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, I've said this to deny the gentlemen of the opposition benches, and they know that I never quote by heart, but to quote state organs, and in this case, the DRI. All in all, this law on integrated prevention and environmental pollution control, as well as others, is very good, Madam Minister, so the SNS, as colleagues and colleagues said, will vote in voting day. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, the people of the opposition benches, however, are few of you, only five, but I call on at least five of you to give your vote to these laws, and the sixth has entered, behold, I apologize, that you also give your vote on these laws, and in this way you will at least demonstrate your contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, which the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, with the entire government, and assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is so warmly favoured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you agree, will you, Mr. Stefanovic or you? You have one minute at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23351	Mr. Arsic, I'm picking up the line, and Mr. Markovic is on his way to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23352	But, Mr. Stefanovic, I didn't extend my work, so we have to finish at 6:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23353	It's okay, I understand what you're saying. I think that you are in some sense, although this is a replica, related to the DS, and I don't want to answer, because we have heard a series of tabloid truths, which have been presented about the party, but it will be the competent authorities to question, which Mr. Professor Atlagic is not. I want to congratulate him for successfully coping with the text. I would only like to point out that it is not correct for the President of the Republic to quote after Prime Minister Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23354	You want a word, too? On what grounds? Now you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Markovic, only if you say I broke the Rules of Procedure when I gave my word to Mr. Stefanovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I have an explanation if you want to listen to me.) I can't really meet you here. The breach of the Rules of Procedure applies directly when it is done, meaning when the previous speaker is done with the discussion. You gave your colleagues Stefanovic the right to replicate and thus gave up that... It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23355	Mr. Chairman, I think you've hurt Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says in the first position that the speaker has to talk about the agenda point. I wanted to inform Mr. Atlagic that what you read is largely not true. I was, among other things, present in that delegation in 2009, and it really is inappropriate for you to make such false statements in this House. We have repeatedly denied today that you have spoken of both the former minister and the ministries, that you are extracting from the context many statements or some information, is not in favour of this debate. So I think that today, Mr. Chairman, many times you should have told your colleagues and talked about the subject, not what they think they're willing to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-03-0.u23356	Comrade Markovic, what you have now advertised as Rules of Procedure, I feel free to consider it a replica. I don't see why you're resorting to advertising the Rules of Procedure, if you want to replicate. It was enough to ask for a replica. As this is an abuse of the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, the time you have spent will be turned away from the time your MPs have at their disposal. Now we're done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
