ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35741	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the identification units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today they have been prevented from attending today's session: Vladimir Pavicevic, Branko Djurović, Branka Bosnjak, Natasa Vučković and Igor Bečić. We continue to work and move on to searches in the details of the Amendment Laws and additions to the tourism laws. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Lucrezia Djeri and Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary, Dr Renata Pinjo and Gordana Radosavljevic, Assistant Ministers and Stanka Radan and Tatjana Dinkić, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Legislatives and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35742	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers, we have submitted several amendments, mostly technical, linguistic, for several reasons. We simply don't have a great problem with the bill, or the amendments and additions you came to parliament with. Personally, I think there was room to make a new tourism law and thus mark a new beginning of tourism development in Serbia. I think it should have been added, we'll talk about it later, a more modern form and a tourism organisation of Serbia, we'll talk about it. However, I also wanted to propose amendments, which would cause so many changes, simply more than half of them, and therefore initiate a new law. We agreed to change this law together with you, or to propose amendments and additions, and I say, we have no major grudges. That's why we suggested these kind of language changes. Thank you for adopting this amendment, or it has been rejected, excuse me, to consider adopting this amendment. This article, although you do not adopt our amendment, is well defined because it carries new things. I can't say very modern, because these are trends that have been used in Europe for almost 10 years. We're talking about destination management, we're talking about destination management organisations, companies that manage specific locations. It is the concept of tourism development that has been checked in Europe for almost 10 years. It's working well. It has been bad so far to run tourism centrally, for all locations alike, for all of Serbia the same. It is good to develop specific specific locations and thus, by doing so, develop tourism as a whole. I say, quite a good thing, it's not that modern, but it's been used in Europe for ten years. It was supposed to happen in 2012, we didn't. It's a good thing you suggested it now. And if you do not adopt this amendment, this article is good, since our amendment is of a linguistic nature, but consider adopting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35743	Thank you. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marijanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35744	Dear Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this member defines, above all, that the tourism development strategy is working instead of 10 years for five years. So that's a good suggestion. Our amendment is also linguistic, but I wanted to add something. It's just that I think you should think about reviewing, no matter what the strategy is about for a longer period, a review should be carried out every year. Why? Because the steps that develop tourism, the dynamics that impose trends in tourism are so fast and so great, we simply have to do a revision of the strategy maybe even for a year. Why? As we discussed the Tourist Organisation of Serbia and in 2000, as well as today, Europe moved on to a tourist board. While we are talking about wellness centers, wellness centres across Europe are returning health care to the wellness centers. We're so late. Perhaps we should discuss both the revision and the more frequent discussion on the tourism development strategy. Why? What is very important is Serbia's brand, perhaps rebranding Serbia, a term that I can now use. You know that there is a "fuchr country brand index" in Europe, we are by that index 108 of the 116 countries of the world. We have Bangladesh, Pakistan, Rwanda. We're on that index 108. What does the brand say and what three things it affects, first of all, the brand of one country? The political position of the state in international society, the arrival of foreign investors and tourism. Brand first and dominantly affects these three things. Why? Because diplomats, foreign investors, come to the country with a good image. This is about this socioeconomic side of tourism. If it wasn't just the law of tourism, what's your job? To finally do that job that no one has done before you 25 years or 15 years ago, to turn down those 10 years of 1990s, the irony of war tourism, I doubt it would bring anyone into Serbia. So your job is to bring tourism to the government table as a priority agenda. Without it, the law will not remain a dead letter on paper, but it will not bring about the tourism that Serbia needs to happen. So your job is big in this area and this job I'm talking about, think about it. You will have our support if you want to approach the development of tourism in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35745	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35746	Very short, so you don't hear from me later. Of course, this error was seen and it will be corrected through the legal-technical order, as well as most of the amendments it has submitted, particularly Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic. So something's been accepted, and something's going to be corrected through the legal-technical order. We've been thinking, really, about going with a whole new law, but because of the speed, we've decided on this variant to change up to 50% of the provisions of the legal solutions, what was most necessary, what were the demands of the tourism economy. In line with what you mentioned here, we have for the first time now moved the deadline for making strategies. So she won't be valid for 10 years anymore. It can be true in five years, with the action plan likely even less, that action plans must be made that will be a year or two so that we can monitor their realization and that these plans would not really be wish lists, as has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35747	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35748	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am so pleased that today's session began in such a spirit and I am glad that the minister agrees. As far as the strategy is concerned, it was usually the strategy to be one project that is longer than the next, but given that change in all areas today is quite fast, it is quite all right, as the minister said, that the future strategy is being adopted in less than five years. What will be the obligation of every ministry and anyone who deals with this job is the control of these plans, and they will be in that shorter period of time. I think that there will be a place in this strategy for the development of tourism along the Danube coast and that you will enter in that strategy the Grock and the Greek part, Ritopek, Vinch, etc. Because it's a really nice and nice area that's untapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35749	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35750	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think five years for the strategy is a real deadline, and what bothered me is a list of where our country is, in which areas we compare to Rwanda, etc. That raises one question -- how come we're low-placed, when in the last 12 years we've had such good, noble, valid, worthy power? How come we're so low-placed? Did this happen in the last two years, or did it happen maybe from 2000 to 2012, so we ended up in various areas at the very bottom of the world scales, not only as far as tourism is concerned, but as far as all the segments of life in our country are concerned? I cannot accept that someone who is most responsible for our country's very difficult position, for the very difficult position of our people, for someone who has been boasting for 12 years, for someone who has lived, while the people barely survived, I cannot accept that someone who lives as in a fairy tale today, a people who live as in a bass, worships, transfers their sins to another side, that citizens know who is also responsible for such a very low standard of living in our country, who is responsible for the low position on world scales, in economy, in various other parts, and in tourism. I don't believe it was this power in two or three years, and if she wanted to, she could have destroyed that much. As long as those who ruled from 2000 to 2012, and still rule in Vojvodina, as good as they were, I don't believe that we have made a situation worse, and this is unacceptable for me, to have someone transfer their mistakes to another side. I guess it's time for them to forgive us, even if it's their mistakes. Today is October 5th, it's the day of the failed hopes of an enormous number of citizens, and I don't think it's appropriate that those who sold cheaply on October 5th now honor someone else for what they've done wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35751	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35752	Thank you very much. If I remember correctly, the minister promised to accept all the amendments that this type were, or, well, this Article 3 that you did not accept, but it was a promise from the minister that he would accept these amendments, so it's interesting that the attitude changed, but, what do we do, it's part of the policy probably. The explanation is interesting for the refusal of amendments. It says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the observed technical error will be removed through the legal-technical editorial of the text. I think this parliament deserves, and the Serbian public, to get a text that has already passed the legal-technical order before it comes to us. This, of course, is not the essence of the law and it will not change anything dramatic, but it is speaking, however, about one relationship to parliament that is expressed by the executive authority in this way. I've been using five minutes, President. I've been using for five minutes, so you know. The law, since we talked last week, so let me do it again now. Here, now I hear that the urgency has given up the adoption of a new law and remains on the principle of changing to 50%. My question is - what's the urgency? What's so urgent that it forced the ministers, the ministry and the government not to pass a new law, which, we all agree, to be better? I'm sure the ministry has the potential to make a better law than this, that's doubtless, and it's very interesting - what's the emergency? Whether it's a big rush to buy apartments in "Belgrade on Water" or there's another reason. Anyway, I'd like to get an answer to that question. These amendments, which were adopted by colleagues Pavicevic and I, or two, have been adopted, will be sufficient reason to support your law in the voting day, but remains regrettable for the chance to make a new law. I expect that if these reasons of urgency are not too dangerous and binding, the Ministry will get into the process of writing a new law, which in a more modern way will cover this area. Of course, I agree with my colleague Dejan, who spoke before me, that this is where the dynamics of events in the field of tourism should be monitored much more intensely. Tourism, of course, will never be a leading branch in Serbia, regardless of our wish. It's just that whoever has the sea always has 10 kilometers of advantage in that tourist race. We don't have it, but those potentials we have can be used better with a higher level of control, development, stimulation and all that needs to increase tourism's participation in our GDP and the creation of conditions for its development for many reasons. That's what's very important. I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all my colleagues and Minister Ljajic on October 5th. Everyone has some reason to be happy about that day, and those who won then and those who lost that day, and I think it's one big day in Serbia's history and that, of course, all those who say they've failed expectations are right, but everyone needs to see their share of responsibility for it. It would be fortunate for Serbia not to repeat such an event ever, and the condition is that Serbia's further democratisation and development, which is going in the wrong direction at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35753	Thank you. The word has the first minister, then Marjan Risticevic, then Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35754	It's true that I said we'd accept all your amendments, because they were in place. Some have been accepted, and some have been accepted through a legal-technical order, but the objections you have made are quite accurate, i.e. there was reason to be incorporated into the text of amendments to this law. As for urgency, there were three reasons for this – frequent abuses by tourist agencies, to be perfectly honest, we hoped this would be adopted before the summer holidays, we wanted to prevent any new fraud of passengers, or to protect their rights. We were late, but anyway, that was a reason for urgency, so I wouldn't lie to you. Another reason was to comply with other regulations and laws and thirdly, to comply with EU directives, and therefore we have not decided on a new law, but to amend this law, but given what we have received as amendments and what we have incorporated into the text of this law, I believe that we have received one quality law and solutions that can satisfy all the actors of the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35755	The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35756	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it may have been necessary to accept this comma, because it's a major promotion. In my opinion, it was to be accepted in memory of October 5th, the day this congregation was burned with warm love. As someone who participated in all these protests in the '90s, I have to say that we with a lot of hope, with a lot of faith in a better future, were moving behind our leaders. Since October 5th, that love has ceased between us people and them. After October 5th, those from torn ducks, from torn jeans, leap into villas, castles, apartments, Maldives, vineyards, and we who went with them in the streets, we ordinary people, hundreds of thousands of citizens remained on the streets. I think it was worth it that the people had tremendous energy to accept this entrenched, for the simple reason that our leaders got well in their efforts to get to their better lives, instead of taking the citizens to a better life. They burned this congregation with warm love, which I didn't participate in. Some of these leaders even asked that the people be given guns and that we deal with each other, that they move from the street with guns and are calculated, as they said, with the rest of Milosevic's regime. I didn't want any part of it then either. The rifles wanted to be divided by a man who later became prime minister, so that the next day those guns could reach the Zemun and Surcin clan, and with these guns, dozens of people were killed, and the strengthening of those clans by means of that weapon led to the killing of the prime minister himself, who was replaced by, behold, the federal interior minister who jumped to the vacant place of his dead fellow. I believe that the political background of the murder should have been reconsidered, but not only on the opposition side, but it was necessary to examine the political background of the event on the other hand, or those who got, or adventured on that case and get promotions, new positions, new functions, etc., and not a few of them who adventured on it. So in memory of that October 5th, we who followed our leaders deserve to be entangled even today. I arrived a little later because on October 5, I was picking corn and picking vineyards and picking grapes, so I did not participate in the complete event. I arrived only at night, because they allegedly announced some tanks that were not there, but by then this assembly was burned, so that perhaps my efforts to prevent it would be in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35757	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35758	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ljajic, I suggest that the amendment of the proponent, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic, be rejected, because technical errors have been observed, in this case the marks that are being removed through the legal-technical editorial of the text, although it is true, as you said. Otherwise, all their interventions in the Proposal for this Law on Tourism in the form of amendments refer to technical details, as you have seen, which are otherwise removed in the final legal and technical order. What does that tell us? Yes, and the two admit, Ministers, that this bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act is extremely good and valid. This tells us that in this high house of the National Assembly in the voting day, they will vote for this amendment and the law in general, if by any chance they find themselves in this high house when there is a vote, because they are usually not there, and they do not vote for their amendment either. I ultimately recommend that they maybe switch jobs. They'd be better suited to the assistant lecturer than to the post of MP. And finally, when it comes to October 5th, one sentence. Lords versus me, the individuals burned down this congregation, and I was shutting down the bucket. They handed over my and your president, gentlemen of the People's Parliament to The Hague. My smallness as a witness was defending not only the president, but also the state of Serbia at the time. Let's leave it to the past and historians, turn to the future, and history will give its judgment on it. Therefore, I propose that the amendment be rejected, as well as any future amendments in terms of legal-technical errors that are indeed correct, because legal-technical corrections are ultimately made when printing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35759	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35760	Of course, I can't think of a replication, and that's what I'm particularly obliged to do, and that's the request of a young New Party forum that's on demand... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35761	Thank you, MP, for explaining this, but then there's no replica. I gave you a chance to replicate, and you explain that the party has forbidden you to replicate. Yeah, I'm not normal. I thank you for saying that I am not normal and I ask that it enters the record, that the public of Serbia hears that MP Zoran Zivkovic told me that I am not normal. Here, I'll take it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: This is incorrect. Give me the microphone. Don't yell, I accept that I'm not normal, both in gesture and in words. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35762	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, we have given several amendments to the proposed law on amendments to the Tourism Act, which concerns one very important thing when it comes to the development of tourism. In line with its EU accession policy, as well as the possibility of using EU pre-accession funds, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministry should bear in mind the tourist potential that can be achieved from cross-border co-operation projects. This is about projects aimed at strengthening cross-border co-operation through joint local and regional initiatives, which would contribute to overall improvement between other and tourism, which is of particular importance to local communities located at the border with neighbouring countries. When it comes to clusters connecting business entities and other legal or natural persons, which exist to connect common needs and strengthen competitiveness, border municipalities can develop their tourism potential by modeling cross-border co-operation with neighbouring municipalities from other countries, because there is a connection by all criteria. Cross-border co-operation models with municipalities and cities from neighbouring countries have proved to be very successful within the EU, and it is necessary to think in one such direction and take advantage of the knowledge that has been gained from the practices that have proved to be good and successful in developed countries. These projects are important because they promote the idea of regional co-operation, multinational co-operation, and we believe that the adoption of our amendment would create a legal basis that would facilitate the implementation of such projects as are important for the Sandzak region as well as for some municipalities such as Tutin, Sijenica, Prijepolje, bordering Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other municipalities and regions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35763	The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35764	President-in-Office, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I believe this amendment should be rejected for the following reasons. Not because he has a bad intention. On the contrary, he has good intentions. However, cross-border co-operation between local self-government is already successful in the Republic of Serbia, but many local self-governments, especially in southern Serbia, are developing their cross-border co-operation through the IPA programme, and there are more tourist organisations than included. I can cite an example of the town of Nis, which co-operates with Bulgaria, the neighbouring Republic, where we have cross-border co-operation programmes, even successful IPA programs where the tourist organisation has implemented a tourist signalling, for example. in the territory of the city of Nisha. So, I believe that in the work of tourism organisations there is no need to cite cross-border co-operation, because simply local self-government in co-operation with the tourism organisation already has this way of cross-border co-operation. I think this is really too much to add to the law, because it might confuse the directors of tourist organisations, maybe we would give a little too much authority, since, with the co-operation of local self-government, they are already working on that cross-border programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35765	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradic together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is for Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35766	Thank you, Vice-President of the Government, in principle debate you have somehow had the understanding, I have announced the essence of our amendment, which is to amend a member who says that the Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia is appointed by the Government on the proposal of the competent minister, so it is in the bill of law. We have bet that the Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia is appointed by the Government on the basis of a public competition. In the light of the Law, I see no reason why this amendment is not acceptable, I do not see the obligation that although our amendment by the Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia will propose a competent ministry based on the competition. I think it should stand in the Law "based on competition", not only because of the appointment of the director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation. This member of Law 37 defines the way of choice, including the director of tourism organisations that establish local self-government and autonomous provinces. I think it's bad if you don't impose a public competition before the election of the director, then appointed by the founder, in this case it's the Government, in these other cases it's the Parliaments of the AP, or the Assembly of Local Self-Government. What if we don't introduce this as a legal obligation, my concern is that in practice this place of director of a tourism organisation, especially in smaller areas, a tourist organisation will be established, and then it will be part of some coalition agreements that will get what function and it will become just one of the functions in some local self-government, where party-friendly people who may, and perhaps not meet formal conditions, may be like V.D. to fill these places without the formal conditions being met and we will not get the quality and the results that we want to achieve by this law. The other thing is what is one of the things and goals this government wants to achieve, it is to reduce the influence of parties in appointing people to professional functions. If this amendment is not adopted and the public competition obligation is not imposed, it will remain a matter of choice. I believe that you as minister will conduct a public competition, but what about in some small municipality where this place will become the place of a promotional coin between the parties when coalitions are being made or when a transfer or all sorts of other things is being done? That is why I call on you to accept this amendment because it will lead you to choose through a public competition the best-quality people in the post of director of tourism organisations, not only the Serbian Tourist Organisation, but also the local self-government tourist organisations, and this will make it easier to achieve the objectives for which we adopt amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35767	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35768	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I fully understand my colleague Djurisic, he realized that during a period when they were in power in Serbia they were not doing any safe or good, and now he is trying in some way to recommend it to the current, current government to change it. If we want to be honest why the problem is that the Ministry is who it decides to be, it's not a problem at all. If we're safe and we're doing good work and we're running the country, why would someone deny us the right to make our own choices? I hope this government has the strength, wisdom and courage to put the right people in the right places and to follow their work with timely control. So I don't see any reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35769	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35770	Thank you. Of course, somehow as usual, the argument is – how, why didn't you, how it was in your time and similar things to refuse amendments and initiatives that came from the opposition and that's fine, for me personally, it's politically appropriate. This shows that this government and this majority have learned nothing from the mistakes we have made. We have learned unlike you, and we have seen the mistakes we have made, we are aware of them today, we confess where we have sinned that we have sinned. What is essential and the concrete idea of this amendment is to change the reality in Serbia, not the reality that existed three and a half years ago, but the reality that exists today. Today there are half the officials appointed by the Government in V.D. condition. The whole country is in V.D. condition. In local self-governments that crossover every few months, all officials are selected in V.D. condition. A country like that can't go forward and that's why we get worse and worse every day. That's why the citizens of this country are getting harder. Because the only argument when something is given, a suggestion on how to be better, is something that is in line with the declared principles of this government, an argument that wasn't you and how you were doing it. We lost power three and a half years ago in democratic elections involving all parties equally. It wasn't just to hear one thought every time you turned on the TV. It wasn't that you couldn't go out and make a protest because the police wouldn't let you. That wasn't three and a half years ago, and that's what's happening today. Think about it and think about where it'll take you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35771	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35772	I'm very sorry that my esteemed colleague didn't understand, I didn't mention at any point that they were doing a bad job, but I said it was a pleasure and I'm glad they saw their mistakes and they're trying to show us today that they can do it another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35773	The word of the peoples is the Messenger of Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35774	I would like to support, on behalf of the LSV parliamentary group, this amendment and the competition institution as an opportunity to choose the right staff. Unfortunately, we professional and young people, not just young people, are leaving the country, we will feel the most about it in health care, and we cannot afford the luxury of being able to do anything. That story right there, we've seen that before, and that's something that's actually just a shame. The institution of the competition, not only in this area, but in any other area, should be supported and the highest quality personnel should be obtained because all of our youth will be gone. According to some polls, some 80% of the younger than 35 who have been surveyed have said they want to leave the country. Who's gonna make us a pension tomorrow? That's why we need expertise and knowledge, and that's why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35775	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35776	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, our amendments, amendments to the LSV, and we have five almost all of them regarding professional training, i.e. the education of tourism personnel. We thought, and that's what I said in my principle debate and said that we have a lot of tourist schools, schools that educate staff, we have colleges and private universities and state colleges but simply people who have finished those high-tourism catering schools, colleges can't find a job. I come from a village where there are two completed, in Belgrade they have completed a high-tourism catering school, one has worked on a cruise, I don't know where, now they simply don't have a job, they've finished their colleges and they're planting peppers. Every job needs to be done, not at all, but simply at their jobs, the jobs that maybe they could have done by some unprofessional people, so we're out of our five amendments, three or four, I don't know exactly related to that professional equipment. In Article 10. The draft law amending the Law on Tourism amending Article 37 paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the new Article 37 is amended and amended – Work experience of seven years, of which at least five years in tourism. That's where the competitions and the work experience are thought of. The amendment primarily refers to the director, in fact a leading worker in the Tourist Organisation of Serbia, and we thought that the director who should performs such an important function and is appointed by the Government should come from the profession. So, to be a condition that he has at least five years of work experience and that he has completed a university of tourist and catering direction, not that it's as extensive as you've given, that he can complete various socio-humanist professions. Finally, if these changes and this Tourism Act will make changes and regulate tourism in some way, then a leading man, who will lead Serbia's tourism organisation, comes from the profession and has a college that is either a tourist or a catering direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35777	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35778	Since there are a lot of amendments to this trail that you were talking about, what was our idea? So, let's not restrict it to be an area of tourism and hospitality, as suggested more or less, for the simple reason that it requires primarily management skills and marketing and promotion skills. If we only limit to tourism and hospitality, there is a concern that this will, firstly, limit the possibility of an adequate choice, and secondly, how can one economist or lawyer limit the possibility, with these abilities that I was talking about, compete and be elected as director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation or any local organisation? That was the only reason we really wanted to leave the possibility for all high-end management personnel, with marketing and promotion skills, who worked in those areas, to be able to compete for this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35779	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35780	Thank you. Yeah, that's fine. You say that both lawyers and economists can be directors of the Serbian Tourist Organisation and that they are not denied the right to work. That's true. But, one lawyer, how are you going to get him, what will be the conditions in that competition that you know that this lawyer or this economist will do a good job if he has never worked in tourism? Maybe he'll come from a law firm, maybe he'll come from a company where he's been following work relationships or I don't know what else, or that same economist who worked at a factory, was leading and running the bar in that department, how is he going to get into tourism now? You've spread it again to a very far away. I understand the lack of work in Serbia and that everyone has the right to work, but I simply don't think that's going to fix the area of tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35781	Thank you. Minister, I can only give you a replica, can you replicate? No, you're giving up. Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorovic together. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35782	The honourable presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers, in the spirit of these changes that we have now spoken of, in order not to repeat myself, our amendment is the same. So we're not changing professions. That is, we do not say – the director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation must not or cannot be a lawyer, an economist. On the contrary, yes. But we simply say – if you want to be the first person of the Serbian Tourist Organisation, you must work at least a little in tourism, at least run a local organisation, at least run another organisation. It's just that it's not possible for you to be the first man to spend your first day in tourism in that principal place. That's our message. However, the other thing I wanted to say about tos. Namely, these are the main changes that I wanted and talked about from the beginning, if you remember, I wanted to submit a few amendments, but I decided not to do it because then the number of changes is so much that it points to the need for a new law, so I decided to change the existing one and that's why we took this amendment. Namely, the tourist organisation as such, as we are changing here today and as we have in Serbia, is an outdated model. Simply, the whole of Europe has already moved on to tourist boards. Tourist boards allow private sector, hotelers, airports, hosts to participate in management, to create campaigns. When they engage in the creation of certain campaigns, they will defend their interests in a state apparatus, along with a state that protects their interests. Then these campaigns are more efficient, better placed product, better promoted state. What's the parallel analysis? I think a model like Germany has the best and perhaps acceptable for us. Germany has also retained a tourist organisation, and it has a tourist board. Maybe it's like a transitional solution good for Serbia. Croatia has a mixed organisation, Slovenia has completely switched to a tourist board. It's just, I said from the beginning, tendencies are big, fast, changes are very dynamic. I think that the tourism organization is like such an outdated model and that we can think about changing in the next year or two of this member of the law, and that instead of a tourist organization, we organize some kind of tourist board. We ask the private sector to simply invest its capital. Tourism operators in Europe, in the world, are private. You'll agree to that. You've got great associates, specifically for tourism, I know that, and they'll confirm that to you. It's just that the state doesn't deal with tourism. The state makes a framework. The state is investing in infrastructure. Tourism carries private capital. If we're asking them to, we're making such an ambience, then they should also be able to decide. Repeat – when tour operators and vec organizations, hotelers, private capital representatives participate in the creation of campaigns, and campaigns are much more efficient and much better placed product. It's simple, maybe it'll promote our country better than what it's doing today. There are great people out there. They're doing a good job. But the legal framework simply points them to what they have today. Let's help them move on to a more modern organization. Think about this, I guarantee you we'll talk about this in the next two or three years. But we could have done it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35783	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35784	Thank you. I'm about to confirm what you said. We, by law, provide for a rule to be adopted to define the conditions for the formation of tourist organisations. The idea with this rule is to speed up the formation of regional tourism organisations, because this really is a mastered model, and after that, it becomes a destination management organization. How it's going to go, at what rate, at this point, it's hard for me to say. But the bottom line is it's a model of public-private partnership. It is quite true – there is no development of tourism, I did it here last time and spoke in the debate in principle, until we speed up private investment and private investment in this sector. So, with the legal framework, with the strategy that we're going to bring to this law, I think we're creating a good basis for that. The state should invest in infrastructure, but the bottom line is to speed up both domestic and foreign investments to invest more in the tourism sector. I also mentioned the past, as an example of irrationality when we talk about a tourist organisation, that we have a major almost tourist destination in the country of Kopalnik, which is covered by two tourist organisations from Raška and Brus, that Kopalnik does not have its own tourist organisation, which is an ideal example for destination management, where both the private sector and the state could work together to promote such a tourist destination and generally manage this tourist destination.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35785	Thank you. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35786	Thank you. Well, as in the last amendment, this amendment applies to tourist workers in the AP Vojvodina, so we thought the same thing here, so that the directors should have five years of work in tourism, because as I pointed out, Vojvodina has no problem with the education of tourist staff. There are 12 schools in the economic direction that implement catering programs. In the AP Vojvodina there is a Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, Faculty of Economics in Subotica and two or three other private universities, which educate the staff of these tourist directions, so we think that the people who will lead tourism in the AP Vojvodina should come from the tourist profession, not from all other professions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35787	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Aida Ćorovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35788	Minister, I'll do it again for a while, and then add something and answer it, just to get into that kind of controversy that can give some result. I'll just say it again briefly, and I still think that if you want to be the first person in the Serbian Tourist Organisation, you need to have experience in the field of tourism. That's where I start and finish every further discussion. I think it's necessary. All right, before it was the same, in the spirit of admitting mistakes. Yeah, it was like that. It's good to go differently today, let's say, the point of negative selection. We'll create a framework to choose the best people. If we've confessed to a mistake, so can you. This amendment is due to the previous amendment. You have the right to adopt both and say, if someone wants to compete for the position of Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia, they must have experience in the field of tourism. That's the first thing. The second thing, destination management and destination management of the organisation and the company, is why I decided not to submit amendments to the Serbian Tourist Organization in this form and to just open a debate on the subject of tourist boards. Simply, the organisation's tourism management, it is possible to simply take over destinations from the private sector, develop one by one, and thus affect the development of tourism. Why am I saying this? Tourism is the fastest growing economy in the world. This level of 15% growth, working, not working, you will witness this growth, because this is a global trend in the greater volume of travel and every growth of 15% is actually due to this trend, not that we are doing something better in the field of tourism now or not. If we want bigger growth, we have to try harder. We need to move faster, Minister. That's what we're talking about here. Why? Well, I'm telling you, while we were centrally leading tourism, they had already moved to destination management in early 2000. It's a trend from 10, 15 years ago in Europe. When we talked, now we're talking about the wellness centers, they're already thinking about restoring the health function. While we discussed the Serbian Tourist Organisation, we are still talking today, they have already moved on to tourist boards. We're just pointing out that, the necessity of faster change in the tourism area, because it's a very dynamic economic branch, which can affect, I can't say crucially, but let's say in one big, huge development of the whole society. I'll give you an example. In Slovenia they made a decision, from that moment on in a year the municipalities that had spas became Slovenia's most developed municipalities. That job was done in over a year. Tourism in Slovenia today participates more than 13% of GDP. We have 1.8. I don't blame you, because it's been a consequence of inactivity for 15 years. But I'm appealing and I'm saying, if we open this debate today, we can say, well, we start today, let's change new laws together, make new laws, change and be a faster change in tourism that has to happen in Serbia. That's what I'm appealing to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35789	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35790	Thank you, Madam President. This amendment clearly describes the relationship between one local self-government and a tourism organisation, thus excluding the possibility of trusting a job with another legal person that the legislator did not provide. On the other hand, cross-border co-operation projects should also be taken into account when it comes to organising different tourist events, as these create conditions for countries in the region to work together on their way to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35791	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35792	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, our amendment to Article 18, we wanted to complete an amendment to the 50th amendment, where you proposed, in a different way, in accordance with compliance with other laws, we have defined the technical equipment and the other member defines the conditions that the manager of the travel agency must possess in each space. The essence of our amendment is to add a new position, which defines that in the case of temporary prevention for work longer than 30 days of maternity leave or in case of termination of employment, for the business space manager, or for the place of business of the tourist agency, he may hire at the place of manager and a person who does not meet the conditions laid down in point 1 of point 5 of this article for a period until the return of the manager to work, or no longer than six months, in the event that the working relationship of the manager has ceased. What's this about? In Serbia, especially in smaller areas, there are small tourist agencies where one person usually works and now in case of temporary prevention for work, maternity leave or other reasons that we have stated, it may not be possible to find the right person to replace the manager within a short time period, and in that case the tourist agency would have to be closed. What we want to make possible by this amendment is to make it possible to work, to find a person who in a shorter period of time, we have said here no longer than six months, to replace that person, so that this tourist agency or intermediary, are small agencies with one employee, can work, not close, because it is once the only source of income. In case of closure, it would be a question of how this person could exercise the right to be sick and to do other things. We see no reason to reject this amendment, especially with an explanation that says that the provision of the bill is more comprehensive. We haven't even changed the provision of the law you've proposed, we've been supplementing it. We're not changing what you suggested, we think it's okay, we're supplementing it, so I don't see the reason why it's more cellular. Let's just say I didn't answer the amendment to Article 9, because I think you're right and your argument is fine, so I didn't want to discuss it. I really need to draw attention here that I can't accept the argument that something is more cellular, because it would mean that we're changing something, and we're not changing anything, but we're supplementing it. In that case, I think the law would be better quality, to enable tourist agencies to work, especially in small areas, where one employee works, not to close down and endanger the existence of people who have worked and who, due to diseases, because of several weeks they can't attend, would have to close down that agency, so the question is how would people exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35793	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35794	So far, we have had one intensities to sort of tighten the conditions for the selection of leading people in tourist organisations. On the other hand, we wanted to be flexible and not limit ourselves to the catering and tourist profession so that we could have a bigger choice, and counting on these arguments that you have stated, that in small places it is difficult to find people with such a narrow expertise. This was the request of most tourist agencies in the draft draft of this law, and they have just stated these arguments that they do not have enough staff to replace them with adequate personnel in the event of their absence from work. However, travel organizers need higher professional preparation, for subagents is sufficient medium professional preparation and we think we have found a rightful one. We didn't limit ourselves to the catering or tourist profession. So this is a compromise. We didn't come to the end of the meeting with the tourist agencies that asked for a change in this legal provision, but in any case we kept the spirit of the law, and yet we were flexible enough to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35795	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35796	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I suggest that this amendment be rejected for the reason that the law has already defined which conditions should be met by the manager in the tourist agency. Namely, I find the proposer's explanation inadequate, and the argument is that there is a lack of personnel that meet the legal requirements regarding work experience. If that were indeed so certain, the legal proposal itself would be different. Thus, in order to make the conditions defined for managers in the tourist agency different, or lower, in law. First of all, one analysis of the personnel structures and profiles found at the National Employment Service also led to this legal solution that I absolutely support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35797	The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35798	Dear President, fellow MPs, I will fully support the story of my colleague, Laketić, because I wanted to say that this is exactly the kind of proposal that the amendment promotes the work of 1,800 people in the National Service on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. For what reason? I'm not going to accept the fact that in small places, they cougar with frames. There is one measure in the National Service, which is the territorial mobility of unemployed people across Serbia's territory. So if Kraljevo doesn't have a manager of his travel agency, he will have Chačak, Milanovac, Raška, Kosovo Mitrovica, cities in the environment. That is exactly how it is done, and I propose to my fellow Members that we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35799	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35800	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it's about smaller environments than the King, Chačka. It is about Ivanjica, Koceljevi and similar municipalities where it may be difficult to find a person who has three years of working experience with the travel organizers and one year for working with intermediaries. We believe that the conditions and conditions of this training are deficiting, deficiting in some small environments, where there is an intermediary of some tourist agencies and that in this case this tourist agency will close down and the question arises whether, after that break, the manager of the tourist agency will have a place to work. That is why we felt that we should leave the possibility that in a short period of time, up to six months maximum, a person who does not meet these conditions should not be subject to the conditions of professional preparation, but to these conditions relating to work experience, according to our amendment, that such a person is found and that, temporarily, for several weeks, months, at most six, be at the place of the manager of the travel agency, so that the travel agency would not close, so that it could survive on the market. I guess there's one or two tourist agencies in these small municipalities. If one of them closes for a few months, the question is, will he be able to open up and get back to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35801	National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35802	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, several previous amendments that I have not responded to in principle are the same change we are proposing. Namely, several members, or the end of attitudes, change or end. We don't think that in one law members and attitudes should end with the other and the rest, because it's not precise enough and it's subject to interpretation. We have this pain of simply interpreting the laws of the law, and then the competent authorities are looking for the interpretation of the ministry, which is unnecessary work. What we are proposing is that these things and other things and other things are deleted from this law, in order for the law to be more specific, more precise or specify everything else necessary or leave in this case the tourism register to define what is necessary. I will read to make it more clear to the citizens - The 9th attitude notice contains passenger information (name and last name, address, contact phone and other. ) “What else? Either specify everything we need or delete this and leave the register to define exactly what data is all needed, and everything in terms of and the function of making the law clearer, more precise and more concrete and less susceptible to interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35803	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, do you want a word? All you have to say is for the notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35804	Yes, we accept this amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35805	The minister has accepted the amendment. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35806	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honorary Deputy Prime Minister, I can't possibly understand the reasons for the reasons you've stated for not accepting this amendment. So you have stated here that this amendment cannot be accepted, because in a legal and technical sense it is not possible, because the amendment requires amendments to Article 27, Article 27, which only has three positions. So, I'm sorry, here's attitude 27. He's got four attitudes. If this is the reason, it does not stand, if there is any other reason why the Government did not want to accept the amendment, I will now say its essence, and that is the position of Article 27, which is now to be replaced by the law in the current article 68, reads like this – the competent authority of the local self-government is obliged to quarterlyly deliver in electronic form to the Ministry and the Register of Tourism the records of the final solutions set out in Article 7 of this Article. Our amendment was to add "in electronic form" the word "to which the minister determines closer", meaning nothing controversial, nothing or epochal. Then I'm really surprised that the amendment hasn't been accepted, and I don't really understand the explanation that says that we've misjudged the attitude we're calling for and that we wanted to change the amendment, which is simply not true. So we counted correctly, that Article 27 as proposed has four positions, we asked for intervention in Article 27's fourth position, and I'm asking you to just say, if you won't accept this amendment, the reasons for not accepting it, and not that it's standing here, because it's going to stay somewhere recorded that we've made some mistake, which, I mean, it's happened. In life, we are not infallible, as some think, but in this particular case we have not been wrong, someone who has prepared and written an explanation for not accepting this amendment has made a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35807	Thank you. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35808	We were wrong, I'm sorry. I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35809	The amendment is accepted. Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo submitted to the 28th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35810	Thank you, President. This is the third amendment relating to expertise. In Article 28. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act amending part of Article 70 The law in the new Article 2 of Article 70 of the word "humanist sciences" shall be replaced by the words "hotelism or hospitality" in Article 28. So it must have at least a higher level of professional training, i.e. a higher education in basic academic studies, that's what we suggested. Or she knows actively, except for the Serbian language and two other foreign languages and has three years of working experience in catering. We believe that it is necessary for the hotel manager to have a higher education in basic academic studies, i.e. professional studies for three years in the area of hotel or catering, and not from outside socio-humanist sciences as defined by the bill, but in that explanation, the two amendments said that we do not agree that this is a humanistic social profession, but that people, simply, working in tourism, should have completed schools that are from the hotel or catering direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35811	Thank you. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Djorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Djorović. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35812	As I said, several of our amendments refer to the legal-technical correction. This one refers to a tab. I'll think about it for a while. I think we'll better define this member if you accept our amendment. The same amendment is due to the previous amendment, you have the possibility to accept it now immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35813	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojana Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Billjana Ilic Stosic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojana Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojana Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted together. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35814	Thank you, President. Article 39 states that an animator should know Serbian. We wrote that he should know at least two sides of the language. Serbian is understood. If a company is actually a tourist subject registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is normal for an animator to know Serbian. We cannot understand that, so we still suggested that it is a condition and that it knows at least two sides of the language, except for the Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35815	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35816	Dear Minister, we have submitted the amendment and it is about a better-formed member. We have been given a reason not to accept the amendment for the reason that the proposed amendments have already been accepted by MP Zoran Babic, whose amendment made this member more comprehensively amended. I'll take it. So the member has already been changed. It is important that we work together on a better definition and more precise definitions of the amendments. You could have, Minister, shown favor to the opposition, accepted our amendment, and sent your colleagues an explanation that his amendment would not be accepted because you accepted the opposition's amendment. I believe that my colleague Babic would have no objection and that we could have changed this article as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35817	Thank you. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted to the 51st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35818	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 55 to whom we have submitted the amendment refers to Article 124, which says that a fine of 120.000.00 to 800,000, will be fined for a violation of a legal person if it offers and sells travel programmes that are not prepared on the basis of a contract, in the event of cancellation of travellers within the legal period, it will not be possible for passengers to return to the destination for the entire duration of the contracted journey, passengers shall be unwarranted on a journey longer than is provided for by the travel programme, etc. We have proposed to say 120.000,00 to 800,000.00 dinars replaced by words from 500,000.00 to 22.00 million dinars. Usually, when proposing the law, it goes to lighter penalties that need to be more popular, which should be such a distraction and that people have sympathy for who suggested it, but we went the other way of thinking. We find these fines mild. We're aware of everything that's happened in the past in tourism, what the gaps have been, what the meddling was, and we don't think this punishment is a deterrent. I think it's a function of punishment to deter a committed offense. There are many bad things that our fellow citizens have experienced on tourist trips from various agencies and various travel organizers. That's why we think it's more appropriate for punishments to be in a higher nominal amount, that we're going to have a deterrent function, not punishment. It's not about punishing, it's about dissuasion from committing that crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35819	Thank you. The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35820	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, this amendment wanted the maximum penalty prescribed for the violations of Article 125 of the Law to increase, meaning maximum sentence from 450,000.00 dinars to 1,000.000,00, respectively, with25. 000,00 to 100,000.00 dinars. Our whole idea was that the essence of the prescribed penalties had a deterrent effect. It means that a potential offender will act preventively and prevent him from knowingly committing an offence, calculating that even if he is punished, that punishment is something that he can pay, or, even, to say, that somewhere he can count a punishment and knowingly do a break. That's why we felt that these upper limits should be more, so in cases where an offence occurs, the court will decide what the right measure is, is only up to this amount that you have provided for by the bill or some amount already. What I am saying again is that we are particularly bothered by the reasons for the rejection of amendments which are said to be the prescribed amounts of fines for a breach of a more comprehensive solution. I have a problem discussing this in principle, when the government says that some solution is more cellular, because it doesn't say anything. We have no argument as to why something is more celery than what is proposed. I think it's better that maximum penalties are prescribed more, that they will better achieve that effect preventively, deterring, that someone perhaps consciously, I should say, counting on him to pay some kind of punishment. In particular, I can't understand, and I would like to hear how the minister explains this last sentence in the reasons for not accepting the amendment, which reads - very high amounts would not lead to the desired effects. Let's hear what the desired effects of amending Article 125 of the applicable Tourism Act are to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35821	The People's Messenger Adrian Anastasov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35822	Honorable presidents, respected ministers, dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, you know, someone who comes from tourism can say that mistakes in tourism really happen sometimes due to unforeseen circumstances. Here we have the exact members that can make it happen. If we put the fines to a maximum, I'm afraid that's where some development tourism is due. Consider, too, travel organizers who are not large travel organizers, who work as part of a travel program, but sometimes a member of this 125, who is proposed for a change, is somewhat unrespectable. Then we can come to the point that if we punish even those who operate in accordance with the prescribed conditions of the law with maximum punishment, then smaller tourist organisers, tourist agencies close their agencies. I don't think maximum penalties really need to be introduced. I think a tourist inspection should do its job. Powered units of local self-government, these are inspectors, authorities of local self-government units are now expanded. If everyone does their job, the mistakes they've made in the past won't come. I don't think a real increase in maximum punishment can do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35823	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35824	Every time we talk about the level of punishment, of course, it depends on what angle you're looking at. On the one hand, we wanted to take care of the protection of travellers and tourists, and on the other hand not to endanger the actors of the tourist economy, i.e. the tourism economy. Again, on the third hand, we have tried to bring these penalties into line with the Law of Infringement, but I would just like to remind you that these penalties are not the only sanctions against those who violate the provisions of this law, that these penalties go along with the possibility of banning the work of those agencies and the process of withdrawing the license from those agencies. So, for everything together, we can say that we found the right measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35825	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35826	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered the word to support the proposal we made and to explain further, because I am not satisfied with the comments made by both my colleague and the minister. Therefore, for the sake of truth and the public, penalties relate to those who: do not enroll in the relevant register, i.e. works wildly, not tourist agencies, does not hire at least one tourist companion or tourist guide in the manner referred to in Article 45(1), does not hire a representative in tourist, unless the destination does not involve persons from Article 45, for the services of a tourist guide, a tourist guide or a local tourist guide engages a person who does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 94(1) of this Act. Well, we've already polished the technicals, and I guess you've got the same thing in that member and this member. Furthermore, for the services of the tourist destination representative, a person who meets the conditions laid down in Article 99 shall perform a tourist activity and shall not have an employee who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 51. Now I ask you, who do we protect and what do we protect? Wildlife? Well, punishment shouldn't be something that's going to fill the budget, but it's deterring a potential perpetrator from committing a crime in this area. Whether someone will be punished by some other law, we are now talking about this law and the norms that punish those people who do not adhere to the members of this law. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, to protect our fellow citizens who go and use the services of tourist agencies, to accept our proposal, i.e. Our amendment to this article, because we're not going to see if anyone is paid to pay the fine, we're not supposed to charge the fine, our goal is to prevent a potential perpetrator from doing it, to even consider punishment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35827	Just to ask Adrian, are you after the amendment? Adriana Anastasov, from the city: Yes. ) Then you'll wait a little while, since there are previous speakers Please, that's why I asked you on purpose. [[Adriana Anastasov, from the place: Could be a replica, since he mentioned me.]] If you want a replica, you have an advantage. (Adriana Anastasov, from the place: I was mentioned by a colleague, said he was not satisfied with my explanation. I'm asking if you want an amendment or a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35828	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with my colleague Bradic when he read these views to punish people who do not respect these attitudes. Of course, but when you read attitudes, anyone who's seriously involved in the business, i.e. the work of tourist agencies, under one, item 1. - not enroll in the proper register, so how can we deal with it? Now I'm going to read attitudes like you, but I'm going to explain. "Every serious travel agency cannot not engage at least one travel companion or tourist guide." All serious tourist organizations, i.e. travel agencies must have an engaged travel companion, a tourist guide, and that is simply something that is the activity of the travel agency and which has been for many years. All these changes in the Tourism Act are prescribed and even better worked out so that we don't get to the very things that are mentioned here. "Don't hire a representative at a tourist destination. “ Mostly all the serious travel organizers have their representatives at the tourist organization, only now legal regulation. "For the services of a tourist guide, a tourist escort or a local tourist guide, a person who does not meet the conditions is not engaged. “ Just about all tourist agencies are trying to avoid penalties, trying to do their best, and with proper control of inspections, they are really trying to comply with all the conditions in this law. I know that, for example, tourist agencies in Nis are really trying to get the best way to get a tourist representative and a tourist guide, all who meet the legal requirements. So now you're going with the assumption that this is happening, that these prescribed attitudes, that it happens all the time and you want to increase the penalty so that it doesn't happen. However, not only these positions, but also other parts of the previous Tourism Act and this Tourism Act solves these problems and is detailed and explained...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35829	Time!
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35830	... But I'm really telling you, travel agencies and travel organizers are trying to honor all this stuff that's listed here, so I don't think an increase in maximum punishment will do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35831	On what basis, Mr. Braddick? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35832	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We read the same text, but we don't understand it the same way or think differently. When we talk about tourist guides, you don't think about whether the agency has a tourist guide or not. If a group goes somewhere, to be plastic, and as a rule of service, to be clear, it says that it must be a tourist guide on the bus, and the boss of the tourist agency sends a group without a tourist guide, he will be punished. Why? Because he hasn't met all the conditions he's bound to if he organizes a group trip. That punishment goes from 100,000 to 450,000, and we say it goes to a million dinars. Why? Because someone's going to recalculate whether it's in his interest to organize a group without a guide, so if it goes by, he's going to pay a small fine. I say no, the punishment has to be such that he's afraid to even think about sending a group without a guide. That's the point. Why? Well, I guess it's an interest to all of us that this traveler, the tourist who paid for the arrangement, has the utmost respect for all the conditions that the agency needs to give him and be maximum protection. I guess it's our best interest, not our interest that if he gets caught, he doesn't pay much. He's gonna pay for it, and he's gonna pay for it seriously, because I guess our goal is to protect tourists with this law. So we don't protect these tourist agencies, we protect tourists with this law. These members are protected by tourists, service users. The Agency, in order to deal with this activity, must fulfil everything prescribed by the law and the corresponding proposition that goes along with it, to form such an action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35833	Thank you. The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35834	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues, and so all day long, “Trla Babalan let her spend her day. ” I'm not sure we're giving back quality here to improve the law, but we keep talking about what should and shouldn't. All that again from one ignorance, from what it's said is there's not enough practice on the ground. First of all, do some colleagues remember who ran the ministry until 2012 and how it worked? I remember some campaigns by the Serbian Tourist Organisation that propagated tourism in Serbia itself, advertised in Serbia itself, and the Serbian Tourist Organisation did not give itself the right to pronounce a country outside the country's borders to lure foreign tourists. Now the big question is, what do we want with these amendments that our colleagues are talking about? Yes, every domestic tourist should be protected, but every foreign tourist should be brought in. We can't talk about harsher punishment now and shut down economic operators in our country because there are individual cases. For individual cases, the Serbian-JUTA Tourist Organisation should also be responsible – to close the agency if something like this happens and not give it a chance to work anymore. This is not the solution this amendment proposes. So this solution should be dealt with by people who are busy in tourism. I understand Mr. Ljajic, who has one big and super ministry, which cannot literally be all the laws, and he was waited for by many laws that were not done properly in the previous time period, and these laws waited for him, because the Tourism Act was not proposed, because we usually do it all in a minute to twelve, so when something happens, we should do it. I ask my colleagues – why haven't we done this before? Now, let's not just criticise this law that is currently in front of us, but let's see why it wasn't done but, and I don't think we should be dealing with it because it's simply someone wasn't doing their job. As far as these penalties are concerned, I think they are satisfactory, by drawing attention to the minister that the tourism organisation should deal with more promotion of Serbia abroad than with Serbia's promotion in Serbia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35835	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a little moved by this debate, so I get the impression that entrepreneurs are the ones who, like, try to break regulations and laws, and somehow it seems to me that we, the MPs who live by the budget, shouldn't treat those who fill the budget in this way. I think the Ministry has a much better view of the situation on the ground, that it has defined the level of punishment much more appropriate and that we MPs should not give ourselves the right to increase penalties so easily because, as I said, we live off that dinar. For us and society, it can't be the goal of closing down economic operators, it should be our goal to keep control as regular as possible, more often, to stop all anomalies and all violations of the law in the beginning, not to get too far away and then get into a situation where we lose such an insufficient number of jobs as we have. Therefore, I would call on all my colleagues not to talk so lightly about entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs and to give up these amendments and these types of amendments, which are only being further punished by entrepreneurship and economy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35837	The word has a National MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35838	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of honourable fellow Members, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted, for the simple reason that it is defined by the bill exactly as it should be, which is appropriate to the strength and appropriate severity of the infringements that could possibly be achieved. It's not the goal, and it's not the law's intensities to just prescribe dragon penalties, it's just a little bit of space for economic operators to come up with the opportunity to start creating and start working, not to deal with it first of all by punishing. For this reason, I propose not to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35839	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, you, as a congregation majority, are right, I said. You can also vote that the Earth is square. You can also accept the truth through the authority of the government. So what the government proposes is the only true and indisputable truth. It's a legitimate right. I really don't have a problem with that. What's very important is to see, I guess citizens watching, who wants to protect passengers and who wants to protect tourism organisations. As you respected colleagues, you have the right to your own opinion and to talk about everything except this law, and I'm talking about criminal provisions concerning the law that we're discussing and I'm saying that they should be more drastic, so people don't come into a situation where they think they're breaking the law that we're adopting and that I think is good, you think differently, that we should give a chance. What? To steal. I don't understand what chance? Who? We protect tourist organizations by giving soft penalties, so we don't protect them. We don't protect people who work legitimately. If we're giving someone a chance to calculate whether it's worth more to respect the law from letter to letter or break it and pay for a penalty, let's put it that way, then we don't think the same way. Then we really don't think the same way. I would ask you, Minister, to accept our argument because we think that punishment should be not something that will be charged, but rather a means of deterring a criminal act from the domain of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35841	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35842	I've already said that no matter how many punishments we've prescribed, there would always be the possibility and demand that they increase. You can always do that. These penalties should be appropriate to the size and extent of the violations, but should also be appropriate to the economic situation in the country. The whole point of this law is to protect passengers, to protect against fraud, to protect against those agencies that have played by regulations and laws so far. But we have a duty, as Ministry, to protect travel agencies, and that's true. We have an obligation because they're business entities that work, work, pay taxes to this country. We have no interest in these agencies stopping working. We want to introduce order in the work of the tourist agency, full order, legality. Whoever breaks it should be punished, not only in cash, but I said, and with the ability to withdraw the permit, to ban the work of those agencies. So this is one debate that has no end. So, even if we've increased these penalties, someone could always say that the penalties are small and that we need to increase the penalties so that they act preventively. It seems to me this is not the essence of this whole law, the spirit of this law, that this is the measure found to protect passengers, but also to enable agencies, at least those who normally work and do business, to operate in this country, to open new agencies, we have an interest in it, but we have an interest and to close those who do not operate and do not work in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35843	Thank you. By amendment, Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35844	I won't go on because I'm satisfied with Mr. Ljajic's answer to my colleague. I support that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35845	Thank you. Adriana, you too?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35846	I'm also pleased with the minister's explanation, so I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35847	Thank you. Member of the 56th Amandard was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dejan Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35848	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, we in Article 56, in the amended article 125, added the word "tourist" to "destination". I think you should accept that because it's a very clear slip you've made in writing this bill, so I believe you'll accept it now. However, when it comes to tourist destinations, what I wanted to talk to you about, with the presidency's tolerance, are spas. The tourist destinations I want to talk about are Serbian spas. Why? The biggest resource, in terms of tourism, development of tourism and our society, is Serbian spas. Local self-government has its limits. We, for example, went beyond those limits in Sokobanja, but we can't go any further. In a few years we also built an aquarium park and a road infrastructure to tourist sites. Since 700 thousand nights since 2008, we have now recorded over a million overnight stays in Sokobanja. However, we have our limitations, as other spas have, as other municipalities do. Where are your limits? So where the state should say what we clearly want with Serbia's spas, what we want, in terms of the development of these spas, in terms of tourism development. We've started with the new Privatization Act with the privatization of spas. We're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way, we're on our way to a legal galamatias, but it's going very slowly. We have a new Privatization Act. We now have new amendments and additions to the 2015 Tourism Act, but, ministers, we have the 1992 Banjage Act, non-functional, as if it doesn't exist, a stone around the neck of the development of all the spas. I know, I'm from Soccommodation myself, and I know how much it's costing further development. We have to say what we want with Serbian spas. I'm still behind it, the biggest resource is Serbian spas. It is not possible to invest in tourism development, fivem euros and wait for more revenue than 500m euros. It's just not possible. You must, in that sense, return to what I said from the beginning of our discussion, to bring tourism to the Government table and say this is for the priority agenda. We have to invest more in tourism, not everywhere, so it's not possible that 160 municipalities are engaged in tourism. We know who is today and what locations, which municipalities can deal with tourism. I'm using my authorized time, as long as you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35849	Mr. Nikolic, you're still out, I let you talk about the spas, but this doesn't fit the amendment you gave
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35850	Chairman, if you can see, I've completed and it's about tourist destinations, and that's why I'm suggesting that you should accept. I explain one of the tourist destinations, which is exactly one of the changes we have proposed in this amendment. I'll finish. The comparative analysis says this, just before I spoke - Slovenia completed its work in a year and a half, today the municipalities that have the most developed spas in Slovenia are 13% of GDP. The Czech Republic had an entire transition policy to develop Czech spas. We can say freely, Europe's most developed spas are in the Czech Republic. What are we doing? It's just that we're asking you for answers, a clear policy for the development of spas. Why am I saying this? We entered the privatisation of certain state hotels, but we stopped. Without the help of the state, workers are left out of work, without social programmes, there is a need for state assistance, it is a multi-resor policy. You need to get involved with your colleagues, invest more in the spa, that's investment as well as education. The difference is that the budget, i.e. full much faster, funds invested in tourism are returning much faster. So we expect you to change the law on spas, it's not easy to know, but the minister's job isn't easy either, you've accepted it. Our help, my personal, because I come from Sokobanje, will always have you if we agree to invest in Serbian spas, as we see a clear policy of Serbian spa development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35851	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35852	As for the amendments, he was accepted through Mr Kostic's amendment, literally in the same form. As for the spa, a privatisation adviser has been appointed to propose a privatisation model for the first ten bananas in Serbia. It should be completed sometime by November of the month, so it should propose a very clear model of how these spas are privatized. What the ministry expects is that by the first half of next year, the process will be completed, given that there are interests between these spas and foreign investors and investors for their purchase. But we'll see when a clear model of their privatisation is proposed. What was a key obstacle, in general for the development of Banja tourism, unfortunately we are at the beginning, these are unresolved property-legal relations and you know it better than I do. The dispute that the PIO led with the state over it, and then the ruling of the court to share ownership with PIO over some of the country's spas, until we resolve it, is not worth any law on spas, because it won't solve anything. Therefore, privatisation of spas, solved property-legal relations, defining what will be part of wellness, or spa tourism, and what part of health tourism, is something we need to define in the next period very quickly. I agree that this is one of the most important resources besides Belgrade, the mountains, i.e. Kopalnik, above all Zlatibor and Danube, that spas are the main tourist resources that this country can offer at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35853	Thank you. The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35854	Here, I will now not say that I am pleased with the reply of Minister Ljajic, for one simple reason, because I have noticed the expression of the destination in front of you by my colleague, the esteemed colleague. This is the law of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you to find out where it draws the root term of destinations, it can be the destination, so as such, the law can be said as a tourist destination. The tourist destination is not, simply possible and I ask you not to respect this amendment in this sense, because we are still Members of the Republic of Serbia and we vote in favour of the law of the Republic of Serbia. So behind that, I'd also like to say that. to make a request to you and your ministry, if we can get information, since there are a lot of these trade courts, commercial courts in bankruptcy decide on many hotels in many spas and there lies the biggest problem. It's not the Ministry's problem just, it's the whole state's problem. We all know that, as well as our distinguished colleague Nikolic knows how many hotels were sold in Sokobanja itself in a very strange way, now almost another hotel and all of this is out of bankruptcy. So the trade court in Zajecar has his hands full for a little bit of money. I think we need to review how first-rate managers, how these hotels are arranged, then invest huge money on all citizens of Serbia, budget users, and then sell it in a magical way in some auctions, not knowing how or how. It's a problem that exists in tourism, it has nothing to do with this ministry, not this government, not this Assembly, it's just a problem where there's this bankruptcy mob that's been doing business for years and now they've moved on to buy hotels in the spas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35855	Mr. Nicolas, on what grounds? (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: said Nikolic and spoke to me. No, you've opened the problem. I allowed you, I tolerated you, you spoke of baths that are now not subject to this law and I ask you to respect it. Thank you. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Please, then the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, let's see what you tell me in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35856	Chairman, article 107 has been injured. I have no intention of breaking the Rules of Procedure and replicating my colleague Mirkovic because he didn't read the law. I'm not going to replicate to him, I'm going to talk to you. So I was talking about tourist destinations because these are major changes to this law. We're changing destination, colleague Mirkovic, by this law, you haven't read the law. As far as further privatisation is concerned, exactly, I've talked a lot about it in Parliament. I asked for questions and answers from Minister Ljajic, from Minister of Business Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35857	It's no longer the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35858	It's the business court. I ask that the state help in this process to be more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35859	Please, I don't see that it's at all a question of a violation of the dignity of the Assembly that you disagree with in the terms of one particular point, whether the destination, the destination, is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see that the injured Rules of Procedure, therefore, is my duty just to ask if you'd like to make a statement in the voting day? (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: No. Mr. Mirkovic, on what basis are you. All right, so you're giving up. Thank you. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradić submitted the amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35860	The Honorable Ministers of Article 57 refers to Article 126, which reads - a fine of 100 to 250,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person, so I will only list a few things that do not take up much of your time, for the offence of the act, says – if the catering facility does not keep guest records or does not keep it daily and neatly in the prescribed manner, if it provides catering services contrary to Article 64(2) of this Act and if it provides catering services contrary to Article 65 of this Act. Opinions only that this law would be more quality and would be respected in my view if this congregation majority accepted our proposal, which says that the word is 250 is replaced by 500,000, so it would say that by fines of 100 to 500 000 fines for violations of a legal person if it did not meet all that this law prescribes. I ask you, Mr. Minister, yes, maximum respect for all those arguments that you have made by defending a member of the 56th Amendment of the Law, to accept our proposal to amend Article 126, because I think it is more meaningful and more in terms of return if the punishment is sharper, more Draconic, and God forbid everyone respects the law that we all stand for and that no one ever comes into this situation to apply these criminal provisions. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35861	The amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic to Article 58. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradic together submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blažje Bradic together submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 62th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35862	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I want to thank you for accepting this amendment. The point is that the law lays down a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. You've already announced that most of it is ready. The deadline that you said they would be brought was less consistent with this deadline that we proposed an amendment that was eventually accepted. I just want to ask you to insist on putting into law the proposed other laws mandatory deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts because it's one of the problems that citizens, businesses today face, is that we pass laws but not sublegal acts in some reasonable period of time, and then the laws become a dead letter on paper, not implemented, can't be applied. So I ask you to try this good practice, as much as it is possible with your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister, to transfer it to the government and to adopt other laws to change this bad practice that currently exists in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35863	Thank you. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break until 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35864	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today's session has been invited to attend the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as well as the Head of the Department of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a bill of law in particular. The amendment, proposed after article 1 by the addition of a new member of the 2nd, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35865	The President-in-Office, respected minister, representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues, after Article 1, is added a new Article 2 which reads – national parks are areas of specific natural values and characteristics of ecological, scientific, cultural, historical, educational, health-recreative and tourist importance, which characterize the presence of representative, biological, geomorphological, geological and hydrological changes and habitat processes and species of special importance and related cultural and historical values. The Serbian People's Party believes that national parks should be defined by their properties in order to have a clear interpretation. By this definition, we determine the content of national parks, which we find very important. We ask that this amendment be adopted because of the more precise form of the existing amendment. Otherwise, this amendment was rejected by the government under the pretext that it was legally technically incorrect. The Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee has adopted a report containing that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Now, I'm confused with the situation here. Is it possible that there are several different opinions on this amendment, given that this is a pure definition? Otherwise, it is not the first time that all the arguments for amendments, especially the representatives of the opposition, are written equally. I've been denied all seven amendments under the same pretext, I'm deliberately not giving an explanation, because I think it's just an excuse for not accepting. Otherwise, I call on colleagues and colleagues to adopt this amendment in order to have a precise definition of national parks, because it does not exist in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35866	Thank you. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and environmental protection committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. I'll give the word to the minister. I went to the next amendment too quickly. So, the answer to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35867	I will only comment briefly on the reasons why this amendment has not been accepted and I regrettably conclude that we have rejected several more of your amendments, which, by our estimates, are really high-quality, for the same reasons. The assessment of our professional legal service is that these amendments are not legally well regulated and that, as such, they cannot be an integral part of the bill. As for the specific amendment that you have now explained, where the definition of the national park stands, it could be an integral part of this law and it would not be bad, although it is not a mistake and that the definition is left out, since the concept of the national park is in the right sense of that word defined by the Nature Protection Act. But, underlining, our refusal to amend is not for these reasons, but for legal-technical failure. So it wasn't legally agreed and that's why we had to refuse, unfortunately, this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35868	Thank you. So, I've read the amendment to the LSV's 2nd parliamentary group. That's accepted. National MPs Anamari Vicek, Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and environmental protection committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35869	Thank you. President-in-Office, dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable MPs and MPs and dear colleagues, I would only like to say a few words about this amendment to the public. We have submitted an amendment to Article 2 point 9). Since Article 2 sets out the objectives relating to national parks, we have proposed to add the words "sport and recreation" in point 9. In fact, the first eight points of this article describe this biocentre function, which is extremely important for nature protection. In addition, in our opinion, however, the anthropcentric function of national parks should also be highlighted. That is why we think it would be good to bring in the words “and sports and recreation. ” In many cases, associations, sports and recreational associations have submitted requests to approve the maintenance of various sports events. However, some of the public enterprises, national parks, have rejected those demands, saying they are not in charge. Adding the words "sport and recreation" we believe that there will now be overcoming this problem and that there could be an improvement in the law in this way. In fact, it should be pointed out that in the strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2014-2018 it is expected, among other things, to increase the number of citizens involved in sports activities through development and improvement of sports recreation. Also, the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020 puts great emphasis on excursions, natural teaching, recreational teaching, for which national parks would be an ideal location. In this way, the law is somewhat in line with other resolutions, with other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35870	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35871	Thank you to the People's MP for explaining the amendments. I am pleased to say that the government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35872	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35873	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I would like to repeat that it is a good decision for the Minister to accept the amendment on behalf of the Government and that sports and recreation be part of the law. In this place, I would mention that in principle, I spoke about water in national parks and sports fishing. And now that we've classified sports and recreation, I just want to repeat and ask the minister to pay attention to the future draft laws that are ahead of us. The citizens' initiative in the Republic of Serbia on the need to save water in a much better way in national parks, but also in water, we will see each other in the water law in the future, so we need a broad action from your ministry literally to monitor sports fishing in the legal frameworks. It's a resource that can't be seen as exhaustive, which it is, and it's a resource whose value is often not seen, but invaluable. I add that I may not be objective here, because as someone who considers sports fishing to be one of the top human activities, personally and with friends, I just want to remind the minister, along with this amendment, that the subject is given much more attention in the future. The benefits will be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35874	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35875	I see the enthusiasm of SNS MPs by explaining the amendment and using five minutes of time. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, the Turnover Movement has tabled eight amendments to a total of two laws that were under the joint investigation. The government has adopted one amendment, which is over 10%, speaking to my counterpart Pavicevic, but support for the ideas of the Turnover are much greater in the people and, probably because of that anxiety or excitement, however you will, the opposite sides. This amendment, Madam Minister, concerns the essence of the existence of the executive authority, the legislative authorities, etc., as far as law enforcement is concerned. In this amendment, I asked on behalf of the Turnover Movement to delete the municipality of Petrovaradin from the list of municipalities covered by the National Park Fruska Gora. Madam Minister, the municipality of Petrovadine does not exist. In an explanation of why you do not accept the amendment, you say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision is defined in the bill taken from the official data of the Republic of Geodetic Institute. Madam Minister, the municipality of Petrovadine does not exist. You can't pass a law that goes into effect in a few days, taking over the data of anyone who's wrong. So in a few days, this law will come into force. Certain powers or responsibilities, or obligations, will also have municipalities from that area. Imagine the situation, dear minister, in order to speed up the implementation of this National Parks Act, invite all the presidents of municipalities from the area covered by the National Park of Fruska Gora or some other national parks, and if you were informed – there are no representatives of the Petrovadine municipality, you would probably ask – and why not? And they would say to you, because there is no town. And then you would probably wonder – and why did we put that municipality there that part of the National Park is Fruska Mountain, when that municipality does not exist? And then they'd probably laugh at you and say, "Well, you're the minister who suggested it, Mr. Veselinovic suggested an amendment to erase that municipality, and you didn't accept it, from this argument that's funny, Madam Minister. So, you have downloaded the incorrect data, which is the pre-disposal of the municipality of Petrovadine, and this municipality was abolished in 2014, perhaps 2013, or 2015, does not matter. Anyway, before 2010. It's not just a formality. This law should be applied. In order for the law to be applied, all entities to which it applies, and these are local self-governments, should be involved in its implementation. So this isn't about the Petravaradin Community. This is about local self-government of Petrovadine municipalities, which you have put into law. Some sacral objects, some monasteries, etc. are also in the area of this and the neighbouring municipalities. You've set up a municipality of Petrovadine, which formally doesn't exist, as part of the National Park of Fruska up, not knowing the practical state. And the actual state of affairs is very bad, Madam Minister. You're not prepared to pass this law. So I ask you to remove the vanity of those who have made this law and accept the amendment today at the session. Why? For one simple reason – which is a broader definition that includes the municipality of Petrovadin town of Novi Sad. The town of Novi Sad is also located in the definition of areas covered by the Fruska Gora National Park. So, by erasing Petrovadin, it will remain the city of Novi Sad, it will cover the southern concept, which, truth be told, does not exist, and thus all irregularities that can cause this which you insist on by not accepting this amendment will be removed. So, I don't insist on this as an opposition MP, as someone who's an opponent to this government, who I think is doing a bad job, someone because I don't want most people to adopt a bill that's basically inadmissible. So I ask you at the session, if possible, to accept this amendment and get out of this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35876	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35877	I'm just going to explain briefly why we refused the amendment. The reason is that the making of this law, and especially this part of it that concerned territories, areas, borders, was based on some official documents. In the official documents that we have taken over to determine the boundaries of the area of national parks, these are documents of the Republic Geodetic Institute, it's just like we wrote here. We did not have a mandate to check whether everything was written correctly when it comes to the lists of RGZ, but therefore we have given the task of identifying the borders of all national parks within 12 months, so all cadastrian municipalities, to make up the minutes, and on that record, you know, consent is given to the ministry responsible for planning tasks. So it may be you and the board, but as a lawyer, you know well that we have to rely on some documents that are officially still valid, it may be that they're in the correction process, but it's still not part of our job that we've taken over in the preparation of this law. So everything will be arranged over the next 12 months, when we will have both officially and definitely identified borders of national parks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35878	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35879	For clarification. So, and now you've told the Minister that the borders of the Catastrian municipalities will be established. This isn't about the Catastrian Community. The municipality, as a local self-government, which is defined here and the Catastrian municipality are different concepts. You know that well. You later, in the next article, cite cadastrian municipalities, so it's not a catastrian municipality, it's a local self-government, and you're going to apply the law to a local self-government that doesn't exist in the next year. So it's not a catastrian municipality, it's a local self-government unit of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35880	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35881	According to Article 1, one of the functions of the Đerdap National Park is the protection of flora and fauna, cultural historical monuments and other sights on the territory of the national park. Also, attitude 2 states which sites belong to the Gerdap National Park, where the Gerdap National Park stands out to cover also part of the Danube. However, nothing here states that the national park has the task and protection of the Danube as an integral part of its territory. The protection of the Danube River and its coasts belonging to the Republic of Serbia, we believe, must enter the plan for the management of JP Đerdap National Park, and the protection of the Danube River and its coast should be carried out in co-operation with other public enterprises that manage this river, e.g. JP “Serbian” and EPS. I'd just ask, if it's no problem, to explain to me, because for the same reason he was rejected, for legal-technical reasons, he rejected this amendment, just to see what legal-technical reasons it is that, eventually, if I didn't know I'd make the mistake not to repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35882	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35883	Basically, this amendment is good, but we think our solution is more cellular. That's why we didn't accept your addition and your amendment. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35884	You've been using five minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35885	It's the replica. Replication to the minister's reply. I don't understand what's legal-technically wrong with this part? That's the explanation I got from the government. I say again, I repeat, some amendments I have again, by our technical service, have been returned to me, I have done in a form that is satisfactory, adequate and I think it is for this very reason that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation has said that they are in accordance with the legal system. But again, we question what is legal-technically incorrect in this part? I only added the words "Dunav River and its coasts" and the works belonging to the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what's wrong, legal-technically wrong with that part? That's all I want to know, so he doesn't make any mistakes again, because you claim that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35886	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35887	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. This amendment is interesting, not because there is no explanation of what is legally wrong, but because it calls for a question that is being raised to your answer about establishing the borders of national parks in the next 12 months. How are you going to establish a border on the Danube?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35888	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35889	The controller shall, in accordance with the practice of establishing borders, with the assistance of the data of the Republic Geodetic Institute, establish the limits, identify them, make a record, thereby giving consent to the Ministry responsible for spatial planning tasks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35890	By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35891	I didn't ask who did it. I asked how you'd do it. That's two different things. So when you're told that local self-government and the cadastrian community are two different things, we say that because we know what a catastrian municipality is, what a local self-government is. So, for example. Belgrade municipalities are not units of local self-government to the frequent surprise of many. When I ask you -- how are you going to establish the border on the Danube National Park, I'm not asking you who's going to do it, but I'm asking you how? Since you have answered – how the borders of national parks will be established in 12 months, you said – will be based on catastrian municipalities. And we know what it is. But you didn't give me an answer for the Danube. It is not an irrelevant question, for many reasons, one of the oldest national parks, one of the most valuable national parks, the most precious, although it is difficult to measure national parks which is more beautiful, valuable, invaluable than what. But if you already refuse the amendment to put the Danube River in the national park as counterpart Petric suggested, then you owe us an answer as to how you will determine the border of the Đerdap National Park, on the Danube River?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35892	Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35893	My colleague Pavicevic and I have submitted six amendments to this law. They're all grammatical. We were able to fix in law what was possible to fix. But both from the first reading and from the reaction of fellow MPs who spoke before me, apparently this law has many shortcomings and that it is more a set of good wishes than something that is enforceable in practice. By estimating the good intentions you made when you wrote this law, I think that the law in such a state came before the MPs so that it would be best to withdraw the law, to arrange it both essentially and in its character and return it to the procedure for the shortest time possible in a month. For all of us, it is in our interest that national parks in Serbia are protected, it is in our interest that this is the only treasure we have in this country that should be adequately and used, but also protected, that we do not repeat the situations we have long ago in all the national parks that have been attacked, which are partly devastated, some parts are permanently destroyed. It has nothing to do with this or that power, it's one process that takes a very long time and none of what I'm saying is directed to you specifically. But it certainly is good that what is left, which can be protected to be protected in the best possible way. So I appeal to you, it will not be the victory of anyone, or of the opposition, or of anyone, but that it is possible in parliamentary practice, that the law should be withdrawn, that your analysis at the Ministry will once again pass, and that you will analyse experts who are outside the state administration, and that in a month we will receive a law that will be voted upon by all MPs. By ending this long-term devastation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35894	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35895	Thank you. I was late a moment ago when the MP Gordana Komic finished, to give her an answer to the remarks she made, which was brought by MP Petric. I have to say that the material that we deliver was to be read in full, because the law contains precisely defined cadastrian parcels, the exact list of cadastrian parcels that come into the composition of each national park, and that is to say, a provision concerning the Danube River, which you are now asking as a question. So, in addition to Article 4, the Đerdap National Park is located in the north-eastern part of the Republic of Serbia and covers part of the Gerdap ravine area of the Iron Gate in the middle of the Danube, covering parts of the masses, etc. For each national park, a list of cadastar plots is given, borders are only needed to identify them on the ground. So it was necessary to read the contribution as well. As for MP Zivkovic, you say you have made several amendments that are of a technical nature and are all accepted. I thank you for these amendments. We somehow had the intention of having you do the job of correcting legal-technical errors, simply, we wanted to make our contribution to your amendment collection. So, I don't see why if you had that kind of amendment, now you're treating the whole law like that and you have some proposals in terms of withdrawing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35896	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35897	I like trying to be funny, it's really nice in a gloomy atmosphere that most often characterizes events in this House, but don't worry about the amendment collection at all, that's not the point. The goal is to fix something, and that is why the second part of my discussion was aimed at passing a law that you will be proud of and that we will all be proud of when we adopt it, and that who deals with the statistics of the amendments, by number, is really an attempt of wit that actually speaks of the executive authority still having a lack of respect for parliament. There is no parliament in the world where any minister, and even the Prime Minister, can comment on the work of MPs in such a way. All amendments submitted, and those adopted and those not adopted, are legally and technically correct and possible under the Constitution and the law, and there is a point on whether they are like this or like this. What you said at the very least requires an apology, but I will not be surprised if that apology does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35898	You can't Ministers now. Excuse the minister's name. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35899	I would like to thank the President. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, I will not be overly touched by spelling errors if they are identified, because I believe that unless there is a lack of integrity in the essence of the law, then spelling mistakes are the least of the problems, because they only confirm the quality of the law. Of course, it should be accepted that anything that can be corrected and corrected technically. But here, through criticism of the law that is on the agenda, issues arise that relate not to this ministry and not to this law. It's about something that needs to be directed in a completely different direction, which is to define catastrian municipalities according to the provisions of the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro. When this law is seen and applied, then we come up with two facts that no one can doubt. First, the Republic Geodetic Institute, according to its records, provides data on catastrian municipalities that once, as in a specific case, cover the territory of a local self-government. Whether or not this is the correct information, whether it corresponds to the situation on the spot or not, that is another question, but that information is the relevant information that has to be used, because there is no other, there is no other record from which this information could be exhausted to apply to the specific situation that this law defines. Therefore, counterpart Vesenovic, who certainly has a good intention when submitting this amendment, must also bear in mind that the proposing also had to regulate the question of the area of the Catastrian municipality in relation to the area of the local self-government unit from official records. The same goes for water areas and water streams, including the Danube waterway, where I would not now further explain, because it would enter into the interpretation of the law, defines the issue of borders, and when it comes to the Danube water flow through Gerdap. Therefore, only here must it be borne in mind what regulates the Law of State and Cataster in relation to the matter defined by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35900	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35901	Thank you. Our misunderstanding is banal, but it's profoundly obvious. When I ask how the borders of the Danube National Park are determined, I know exactly what I'm asking, and I've read everything available. I'm asking why the Minister said she'd set water limits on the Danube. You know, if there was such a thing as you think it exists, then we wouldn't have a problem with creating a state border contract on the Danube between Serbia and Croatia, then Slovenia wouldn't have a problem with Croatia, if there were cadastrian lines on the sea floor. I know what I'm asking you, and that's a question that's important to us to get rid of properly, and your choice to think that with an answer -- you haven't read the explanation, you can challenge me to ask how you're going to determine, talk to someone who knows where the steams are in the Danube, who knows how to change the waterway to the Danube, I know how to tell you, I know the Danube. When I ask you how you will determine the limit, I ask because Fruska Gora National Park gives fishing licences to the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35902	MPs, the amendment reads - the degation is replaced by the word vegetation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35903	Everything here has to be replaced, Mr President, especially not reading and thinking that it can not be answered to the question, it needs to be replaced, so I'm also in this amendment. I'm asking you that because it's a matter of your own, not because you think I don't know where the cadastrian borders are. Unfortunately, I know what that's going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35904	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35905	Thank you. I'm just going to have an easy crackdown on the amendment tabled by MP Momo Colakovic, that amendment should have been accepted. We'll vote for him. He's just asking that when you establish the limits of national parks, you can see it on the ground. Our Serbia lacks guidance, we lack markings, we lack advertising boards on which we will not write – the grip. The border, as it says on land crossings, and I think it is necessary to accept an amendment that obliges once to draw the limits, according to your proposal in 12 months, according to us in six months, to be by standards and on the ground. So when you pass through Serbia to know when you have reached the border of the national park, what is this national park, what is in it, where, where, where, where, what you can't, what you shouldn't do in that national park, is what it is in the world when it comes to national parks. I'm sorry you overlooked the opportunity to accept the amendment to Moma Colakovic. We tell you, since you claim to know all of this, where the Catastrian municipalities are, all of this can be done in hours of work and it will be agreed after what – the law with the Catastrian municipalities or the cadastrian municipalities with the law, to do so in six months, and not 12 months, that's our proposal. To go back to the one you shared with us. Petrovadine is not a local self-government. You left him in law as a local self-government. Someone's going to tell you what the Catastrian municipalities are, so it's going to be the border of the national park based on catastrian municipalities in 12 months, except for the Danube. I'm sorry, except for the Danube. We tell you - if you know all this, give it six months, for two reasons. What are you going to do in case you don't have a match for what you have in law as local self-government? Will you enter amendments and additions to this law in a year, to delete Petrovadine for example? Why does a job that you claim can be done, because everything exists and they all know what to do, why not do it in six months? It is your right not to accept or accept this amendment, and it is my duty to ask you to read our reasoning and our amendments as an expression of our obligation to make this law as best as possible. In the principle debate I said – he is by spirit and by members so that we would like to look at something, and there is not a single measure to which we will indeed provide. Even here you refuse an amendment that says – you have measured the national park and the cadastrian municipalities, so give a mark on the ground, let it be a sign on the ground, that it is known to here, it is from here, it is its contents. I think that's the flaw. The lack of these signs is, in my opinion, a lack of self-esteem. You know, we like to talk about how rich we are in sacral monuments, not just the wealth of nature. For a very long time, if you want to go to a monastery, you can only go if you're led by someone who's already been in the same season, so you know you're coming. That's unnecessary. Let's mark Serbia with what we're proud of. We're proud of national parks. Well, then why shouldn't there be a legal obligation to see that sign on the ground?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35906	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35907	If I understand MP Komic correctly, she suggests this amendment to reduce the deadline for identifying and marking the borders. Since this is, in our opinion, a very large business, we felt that 12 months was more appropriate to identify the borders on the ground in the right way. I'm under the impression that you here in one piece are now mixing the identification and marking of the borders. Therefore, the controller has an obligation to identify the limits in accordance with the parcels set out in the text of this law within 12 months, together with the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Nature Protection Office. Following that identification and making up the minutes, obtaining consent to the minutes by the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Planning Affairs, shall go to the marking obligation, and the marking of the borders shall be carried out by the controller in accordance with the Code of Marking which is an integral part of the Nature Protection Act. So we have a goal to get the job done as soon as possible, but we said up to 12 months. We'll be happy and we'll work on getting it done before, but we think it'll be one big job on the ground. The cadaster data is variable data and requires a lot of activity, and we thought this was an optimal deadline, up to 12 months. Of course, it can be finished sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35908	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35909	I'm using the MP's time group. Thank you. In the second paragraph of Article 9, which we are changing, it is said – cadastral data necessary for the management of the national park is provided from the immobilization database. What's going to change? You have to decide if you're going to take information on the Catastrian municipalities and make the boundaries of national parks, or are it going to be an uninterrupted variable thing? That's two different things. First you tell us - we'll get boundaries based on catastrian municipalities. We say - Petrovaradine is not a local self-government, you can't do a catastrian plot on the Danube. You say that – it changes all the time. What's changing, Minister? What's changing? The borders of the Catastrian municipalities? It'll change up to a year, and then it won't change again, or it won't change for another year. When I tell you that an opportunity has been missed to accept Moma Colakovic's amendment, you tell me – it will have a national park obligation to mark on the basis of its rules. Where does that say? In the Nature Protection Act, which, what, is yet to be entered into the Assembly? I'm asking you not to throw it away. I'm really asking you, and I'm asking your associates not to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35910	Who's throwing, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35911	Minister's associate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35912	Please do not throw MPs as they speak. So, all someone has to say to someone, they're MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35913	There has been everything in this assembly so far, but that the co-workers of the minister are getting to the MPs, it hasn't been yet, but for everything there is a first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35914	They're confused. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35915	I do. I don't blame that. I know how hard it is when you're wrong, and this guy over there is talking, and you know he's right, and you can't tell him – you're right. It's not easy, I know it. So, it's okay, Catastrian municipalities, Danube, whatever you want, I'll see you here in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35916	The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35917	Thank you, President. I'd just like to add something to this subject. The identification of borders will, above all, mean the listing of cadastrian parcels, but it would be very bad if that's all it's left to do. This may well end within about six months, although considering that national parks are at least 12,000 hectares per area, the largest of which is close to 50,000 hectares, an extremely large job. The worst thing would be to keep it listed only on catastrian plots. What is very important is to make an identification, i.e. by matching these boundaries with orthophoto plans, or orthophotos, plane recordings, because later they will also serve to produce further planning documentation. Of course, that whole change brings further changes to the planning documentation. So, simply, I would still support it, with respect that it always needs to be supported as short as possible, but to give a chance for the geodetic institute to complete this procedure and this job, to make it easier for both urbanists and designers to work, because the most of them are waiting for you orthophoto plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35918	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35919	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. I think that the colleague who spoke before me has already said enough about this, that the determination of what the amendment's proposing thinks should be shortened, that it's too complicated, that it might be "12" to replace the word "six". That belief that I should not vote for this amendment was deepened by being objected here to someone throwing someone away, and I seem to have noticed that these ministerial associates are listening a little bit. Now, that's dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35920	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35921	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. It is good that you have accepted the clarification of this amendment by MP Mladen Lukic. What remains unclear is why everything that has been fixed has been left out in the basic text of the law. That's what I'm talking about in the principle debate. Insufficiently worked thoroughly on the bill. The law merely describes how we want something to happen, and in application of the law, it will not bring about the consequences that we want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35922	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35923	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, this amendment concerns the right to manage the Fruska Mountain National Park. It was given in law along with defining how to manage other national parks. The reason why you did not accept the amendment to the Turnover Movement, which requires that this national park be managed jointly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, and the Region of Vojvodina, is said in that explanation - the Treaty concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina on 22 March 2013, on the basis of the government's conclusion of that and that day, the mutual relations between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Vojvodina have been established with regard to the management of the national park. Yes, Minister. But you're passing the law today. You, in fact, are disabling this contract with this law between the two governments. Why? Because you put in the same basket national parks that have, in some ways, joint management and those that don't. So, you're with this law, there's no supremation of the law with us. So, you're this way, since this is the last law that's been passed, you've put off this contract. So please think about this. So you have defined management, you have not ruled out this way of managing the National Park of Fruska Mountain, you will lead to a confusion in the application of the contract that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35924	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35925	We disagree with your argument that you have given for this amendment, for the reason that we have only respected the decisions of the Constitutional Court. As you know, the Law laying down the powers of the AP Vojvodina has established transactions entrusted to the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with this law, the affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This same law abolished Article 27, which previously envisioned the transfer of the right of founders. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia - the transfer and trust of the Autonomous province, in terms of governance of this protected area, the National Park of Fruska Gora. So, when the Constitutional Court abolished this member of the law, because it was unconstitutional, these founding rights were restored to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we now could not accept that we were in violation of this law, so these provisions of July 2012, and that we give you the right to do so, because it simply does not comply with the law that is older than this law, you know that well. But, of course, there are other laws that regulate the issue of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the AP Vojvodina. You know that, in accordance with this law that regulates co-operation, the Government of Vojvodina has been given the possibility and obligation and the right to appoint two members of the Supervisory Board. Not to talk about those other laws, like the Nature Protection Act, which also means the obligation to co-operate between republican and regional organs. So, once again I want to say that by this law we have not denied any jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, we have only proposed solutions that were legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35926	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go. I don't see the basics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35927	I think the discussion is useful to clarify the question. I ask the Minister, given this argument regarding this amendment, why is it not accepted, and what you just said, is the 2013 contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the AP valid or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35928	Here you go. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35929	Of course it does. So this is co-operation in inspection and in this section regarding management control, so two members of the Supervisory Board determines the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35930	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35931	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that the amendment promoter is the bearer of the higher academic title, the doctor of legal science, I didn't really understand the essence of his amendment. If I understood that correctly, I think he wished that the National Park of Fruska Gora together were run by the province and republican government. What bothered me a little bit is that they put those two governments in the same rank. In my opinion, it can't be the same authority that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in my opinion, is a state body, and the government of Vojvodina is a provincial body. Unless he wants the government of Vojvodina to raise the state level, to be equal to the governments of a state, if he doesn't want to, I don't understand the meaning of this amendment, and then I don't see that high academic calling as being undermined by knowledge, but by ignorance. It is almost incredible that the doctor of legal science proposes equality between the two governments – the province and the republican governments. That's why I don't think that, no matter what the founder of the movement, the craftsman's association suggested, this should be accepted because by doing so, we who represent the state of Serbia would put ourselves in a position to believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is equal to the Government of Vojvodina. I think that's why the Prime Minister of Vojvodina there wanted to run for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I think he was better off running for former Prime Minister of Vojvodina, so he could do it in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35932	I'd like to pray that we don't have this kind of debate in the future. The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35933	For the sake of MPs sitting in the hall, for the sake of the people sitting here in front of the Ministry and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, therefore, the amendment clearly states, in Article 11 after the words "runs the government" and the words "except for the National Park of Fruska Gora, whose founders have equal stakes and rights are the Government and the Regional Government". So these are constitutional categories. I didn't say the government of the Duke, I said the District Government. That's her official name. I think that anyone who is well-intentioned and who knows the legal regime in Serbia can clearly conclude this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35934	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35935	Replica. The MP thinks he can mock the president of the DS any way he wants. I am an authorised representative, and I demand the right to reply, with thanks to you for asking the MPs to behave properly and to speak their language in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Every will to discredit a man, not what he does, speaks most of all about one who has such manners. Discretion ad-hominem, defamation of people, people often find freedom of speech in this assembly. It's probably up to some point. When someone, as a previous speaker, particularly entertains it then, except that it is sad that verbal violence amuses you, shows how much character you have as a person, unfortunately, but also has the right to do so. So when someone takes the right to mock and the man who is the Prime Minister of the province and the man who is president of the DS, then, with another thanks to the chairman, it is our mutual obligation to say that this is inadmissible and that we cannot treat each other no matter how much verbal violence has made us happy. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35936	Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm taking my chance on the replica in the same way that he used it earlier, but a little bit strongest. So my speech is misread, I never mentioned the party mentioned here. I rarely mention ships that sink, because that ship is gone, I don't want to raise their ad and mention the name and name of the party that mentioned the previous speaker here, or just isn't worth saving there anymore, it's a space where anyone smart escapes from, anyone who comes in, who thinks two sentences run from a party that's just been mentioned. Whether someone has character or not, that's what the last affairs say best, the last wind parks, where the Fruska Gora National Park turned into a wind farm of owners who were energy ministers or were in close relations in which I spoke on October 31st, 2012. So, if they think they're lighting up Serbia's 15-euro wind parks, they won't be able to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35938	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35939	Thank you. In addition to inventing, slandering and mocking is also called freedom of speech, I can only repeat that whenever someone comes to mind and feels an irresistible desire to slander, rose and insult the president of the province's government, to express my deep confidence that there are institutions in our society, there are people in charge of investigations, there are people in charge of determining facts, as there are people and here who are happy to be only slandered and roses. And, perhaps for a surprise to those who won't mention the name DS, I will mention the name of the president of the SNS who today said that he stands, if you don't know what his name is, and I hope we all know that, we all know, there's no throwing away, that he stands as Prime Minister, and that's a good statement behind the demand to carry out all the investigations, to establish all the facts, and thus, from the position of the Serbian Prime Minister, it shows that he is still for the rule of law, and not to wash the scribes from the administrative departments who rush to express themselves in public by defamation and disdaination of people. We will all be better off if we accept that the rule of law is the same for all of us, and whoever wants to deal with the language of violence, verbal violence, it is to his shame, no one has taught him how to talk to people, but we will all slowly learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35940	We'll finish this cycle of replicas, no more. Please. Then wait for the amendment, is Ivan Karic the first to answer. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35941	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, well, this article 11 and this amendment that we're talking about right now is about the core of this law. This law is incomplete, this law is unclear, this law is inadmissible, and this law should be withdrawn. It is still not too late for this law to be withdrawn because the debate takes place in particular, and according to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 159, until the end of the search in particular, can withdraw the law. Please inform the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this is about a disastrous law that is inadmissible and that will lead to legal uncertainty, which will bring confusion to investors and national parks and nature keepers. Please, as long as we still have time to inform the Prime Minister that this law is disastrous and I am sure that he will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when you tell him what kind of disastrous law is involved here that he will surely withdraw this legislative proposal and have the authority to do so under the Rules of Procedure. Such a law is probably the worst and legal proposal that has come to this parliament and that the MPs are discussing. We have such a legal proposal that increases legal uncertainty, we here have a legal proposal that private investors that you care about more than you care about being a liberal party, and you're a representative of some left-wing party and here you bring a law that strengthens corruption that reduces the fight against corruption, which by local self-government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35942	Please return to the amendment. You're now starting to talk about the law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35943	This amendment is just talking about the legal certainty of the law being compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35944	Please wait. That this law was wrong you should have said in a debate in principle. You cannot abuse one amendment and now you claim that the law should be withdrawn. You should have said that before. Therefore, it is not now that through one amendment you say the law is right or wrong, please. If you have anything to do with the amendment, please go ahead, if I don't ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35945	Dear Chairman, thank you for your warning. Green Serbia and the SDS support this amendment, but this amendment speaks of the essence of this law that is bad, which is disastrous and which brings legal uncertainty. In the SDS and Green Serbia's principle debate, they called on the government to withdraw the bill and the only thing that would have been rational is that it had done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35946	Thank you, Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35947	Please, I'm using Parliament time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35948	Please, it's not about that, you don't understand me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35949	Are you taking my word? I can be a limited man, but so much I can understand how far the agenda goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35950	The agenda theme is Article 11. And you can't talk about the whole law right now. I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35951	I'm not talking about the whole law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35952	Whether you're right or not, I'm not getting into it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35953	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35954	You abuse one member to now say the whole law is wrong, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35955	Well, the point of this article is that the whole law is wrong. How do you want me to tell you that the law is good, because the law is disastrous and that it allows... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35956	I won't just let you, Karicu, no matter how tolerated a man I am. (Ivan Karic, from the place: I know you don't like the truth and you don't want to hear it. Please, then, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Karic, this law does not touch me as a person, as a man, I am here a person who presides over this assembly. There's no telling whether I like him or not anymore. How do you know, I may not like it, but I have to respect, which is why you chose here and respect the Rules of Procedure. Let me, then, if that's why I'm here, then that I represent the interests or views of the Rules of Procedure of this congregation and nothing else. You can be right, I'm not saying you're right or wrong. So, please, if you have anything else on the amendment to say hello.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35958	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 159. The government may withdraw this legislative proposal until the end of the search in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35959	For God's sake, you don't ask for this amendment here, you don't ask for the law to be withdrawn, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35960	Thanks to the rejection of this amendment, I come to the conclusion that this law can only be withdrawn and repealed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35961	Please, Mr. Karicu. Don't provoke me and put me in a position to take some other steps I just don't want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35962	All the measures allowed by the Rules of Procedure you can take.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35963	I know what I'm allowed, I'm not yesterday, I'm ordering you to sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35964	Does that mean I'm yesterday?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35965	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35966	I didn't even tell you you were limited, that's what you said. I didn't even tell you you were from yesterday it was you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35967	I am and I'm not ashamed of it, I'm not ashamed to admit it, because I'm certainly in some things and limited.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35968	I didn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35969	Thank you, Mr. Karic. Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35970	All right, so you don't give me my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35971	Karic, I'll give you if you're going to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35972	I'm talking about the amendment, I'm talking about a member of the 11th Honorable Mr. Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35973	Mr. Karic, okay, come on. Just please wait, I'll give you my word. First word past the amendment, I'll give you a warning. Here you go. (Ivan Karic, from the place: Should I wait for you to give me a reminder to know what to say.) ) Please, sign in. I have to delete the list so you can sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35975	Do I have to wait until you give me a reminder to know what to say, what the regime likes, or can I say what it has to do with the subject? Will one of your colleagues bring me a reminder...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35976	Mr. Karic, you're not even a little naive that you don't know that. You know very well. Just because you know, that's what I'm talking to you about. What's the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35977	The agenda is to discuss amendments to the law on national parks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35978	On the amendment to Article 11. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35979	Yeah, the misunderstanding we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35980	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35981	Whenever I say something, and I don't say an amendment to Article 11, you warn me. Right? And? So this law is disastrous. You should pull it. Based on article 159, you still have plenty of time. If you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35982	Mr. Karic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35983	Thank you. So there's no truth in this House and you can't even say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35984	There's truth, and there's truth, and before that, I've tolerated a lot, and I've allowed you to repeat it several times, and you simply insist on your views. I'm gonna break the Rules of Procedure this time. I must give the Minister's word for a simple reason, which is necessary to comment on what Mr. Karic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35985	Thank you. This law, which is proposed and which we are considering today in particular, is an excellent law. Not a word of it being catastrophic. This law has been done for six years, and many before us have had the opportunity and not the opportunity, but the obligation to bring it. We brought him to an end. I've heard criticism from some MPs, but I haven't heard the arguments why I'm withdrawing the law. What are the arguments that say the law should be withdrawn? In doing so, I want to say to everyone loud and clear – this law has been prepared by professional people, professional services and those who mention the Fruska Mountain today, they should know that people from the province participated in the task force, the Regional Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment, the Regional Institute for Nature Protection, and these regional authorities have extraordinary co-operation with the Republic authorities. It is based on the practice of the present and on the contract. We don't need any special contracts to know that we have to work together in the interest of nature conservation. So for all of these MPs and citizens with full responsibility, I claim that this is an excellent law, a law that will identify the boundaries of protected areas, establish protection regimes first, second, third, exactly where it will be possible to build, to what extent, we will protect what is our national mildness in this way. Some say this is so far inapplicable, but we'll do our best to make this law really applicable in practice. I believe I'm simply convinced that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35986	Thank you. I know that Marijan Rističević first signed up, but you spoke according to this, first Ivana Stojljkovic, so Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35987	I thank the chairman. I have just come forward under this amendment, first of all because this amendment requires that the powers of the AP Vojvodina be changed, but the law did not deal with it. So, this law did not deal with changes in jurisdiction, these rights passed over by the Constitutional Court decision as early as 13 July 2012, and this law absolutely did not concern this. The whole law has gone in some good direction, we've agreed, I'm afraid it's started to politicise, and we're talking about our general national goods today, and I don't see why we're sharing them within our country right now. I'm afraid, everyone is calling for political parties to belong, when it comes to protecting the environment, not to make a difference, and I'm still calling for that, because if we don't save this, and if we don't protect our nature, there won't be any of us. So once again I call, never mind, it may have to happen again, but when it comes to environmental protection, we can meet again with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35988	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35989	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I propose not to accept this amendment. So, the amendment to Article 11 and to repeat because of some colleagues who apparently failed to manage at least to say by which amendment they appear for the word and comment on it. I had no intention of reporting on this amendment and discussing it, but I was offered the oral explanation of the motions of this amendment, as well as some MPs who came forward to support it and, of course, without any arguments, created some critical note. Truth works, I'm not against criticism. Criticism as such can also produce some positive effect. Critics sometimes bear fruit, contribute to something, do something good. So criticism as such is not a bad phenomenon. However, when criticism is without any argument, absolutely no argument in that sense, and what is worst they offer no solution, it is already something that is the domain of politics and I can have some personal understanding in that sense that someone wants to use direct transmission and free minutes to promote their political party. I might understand if someone new appeared in this House, a brand-new person and expressed their critical position, not to offer any solutions, but there might be some credit, so they might believe him, but the promoter of this amendment, as well as the MPs who gave him support, are all, just not new faces. We, unfortunately, know them very well from the past...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35990	Markovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35991	So, from the time they exercised power. These are all the reasons why it states that this amendment should be rejected, Mr. Chairman. This amendment offers no new solution and there is nothing controversial. I'll read only one piece of the argument that the government delivered to us in an opinion. So it is not true that the contract concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the AP of Vojvodina on 22 March 2013, which the amendment's proposal was put forward as a thesis earlier. I don't know how he's disabling himself. It is not true that no one's position, constitutional-legal position, is being violated, which was a respected doctor of legal science, who proposed the amendment earlier. This is just an attempt to distract attention, one replacement thesis. We're not going to talk about their past right now. I was going to say a few things, but I don't want you to remind me to cross from the domain of what's part of the agenda. Thank you. I suggest we not adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35992	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35993	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let's talk specifically about the amendment. The promoter gave his explanation which, of course, does not stand, but those who support the talk of a disastrous law. It cannot cross over the mouth that the essence is this, that they want the simply provincial government to run national parks that are on the territory, practically the province of Vojvodina. That's the essence of the amendment. For what? Because they exercise power, right now in the province government. What happens in the future if, say, the Democratic Party does not exercise power? Will she demand that the amendments to this amendment go in the sense that they jointly manage the government and some local self-government in which they manage to exercise power, perhaps in a few municipalities? Will they then seek such changes, which will essentially want to show how they advocate environmental rights. The proposal for this Article 11 is that the entire province government manages the national park of Fruska Gora. So, that's the kind of amendment that promotes today, practically this amendment. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that at all anyone who has done this bill cannot agree with this, for the simple reason that these are national goods, which we all need to know how much these national goods are, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which manages the entire property and the national good of the Republic of Serbia, does not want to separate Vojvodina from Serbia, but simply to be in its full capacity, when we talk about natural resources together. Therefore, this kind of amendment must not be brought into contact with such laws. The politicization of this guy can't possibly be the rule by which we're going to say that there's a certain amendment, that there's a profession, simply, it's politicization at the highest level, at the moment when the province's government doesn't have a certain legitimacy to exercise power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35994	Mr. Karic, you want a replica? (John Karic, from the place: Yes, replica. You warned me that I didn't talk about the subject of the agenda, and the minister that you warned me about the replicator, and I didn't say how you allowed it. Mr. Karic, you didn't follow me well. I said at the assembly that I was violating the Rules of Procedure by giving the Minister, Minister, I apologize, she is a minister to me, because she had previously used her right of two minutes, given the discussion of yours which you insisted on withdrawing the law and I considered it necessary for the minister to give an explanation of why this law is good and she did it and nothing else. Please, I don't see why you're asking the law to withdraw, the minister here explained that the law shouldn't be withdrawn. I think we've dealt with it, or we've made your and your ministry's views clear, and in the voting day, we'll get rid of who's right. That's why I don't see any reason for the replica. (Ivan Karic, from the place: I agree, thank you. So every amendment speaks of this law being void and that it should be withdrawn as soon as possible. Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, do you want to speak according to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35995	Of course. Mr. Chairman, I have waited patiently. Nothing is disputed, it is not even disputed when you give the opposition the right to the replica because the post of Prime Minister of Vojvodina has been mentioned. So, there's nothing questionable for me, everything that's in their favor, for me is good, the more they say, the more good it is for us, but for me to get back to the amendment. I have already said it should not be accepted because, if they accepted such an amendment, they would derivate the Constitutional Court's decision, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on June 13th 2012. They'd come back to some point, and that's the amendment's proposer, the science doctor, he had to know anyway. I am a farmer, but at least I read here what it says in the explanation of the amendments and agreed with representatives of the Serbian government that this amendment should not be accepted, and you certainly know that I am one of the MPs who very often votes for the amendments to the opposition, even more than once voted for amendments to individual opposition MPs than they do. So, I'm asking you to check it out, just for the record, but I can't accept a amendment like this no matter what he came from a doctor's pen of science. Secondly, I have listened to other MPs from the opposition, although they rule a third of Serbia's territory and over almost a third of Serbia's population, I have listened carefully and other than trying to insult me, I understood nothing, and you will allow me to put on headphones, but I risk them accusing me of listening. I hope that won't be interpreted as listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35996	The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35997	Thank you. The amendment that I have made with my colleagues, the MPs of the DS, concerns the position of article 6 of the 12th text of the bill. The basic draft law states: ‘The management programme for the following year shall be submitted to the competent authority by 15 November of the current year and shall contain activities with the dynamics of carrying out the tasks and the amount of funds necessary for the following year’. Our proposal was to replace the date of November 15 with the words "1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If there is no change to the Law on the Budgetary System and to the calendar when the Republic of Serbia's budget enters the Assembly, I think you are 15 November too late. The autumn budget schedule for next year, under the Budgetary System Act, begins with the work of the National Assembly Finance Committee, which makes its budget, and the government has to accept the budget as it is and has its own calendar to come to the Assembly. Rarely, I think one only managed to respect that legal deadline last year, or last year, while the minister was Lazar Krstic. All the other governments were breaking deadlines. We're not here to talk about not respecting deadlines, but about how deadlines are respected. Well, if November 1st is the date in the other regulations concerning funds, then why not be November 1st and for the programme, especially since it delivers it to the competent authority? So, who's in charge of the control plan, who's in charge of the controls? This means that if the government respects the deadlines for the National Assembly, that it will not have a plan in front of itself or in front of us, who is the manager, if I follow the other laws well regarding budget deadlines. Since next year's funding for national parks, if I don't know there's another source, and not the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then that's another thing. If you don't mean the Serbian budget here, then what do you mean? To whom it turns out, what is this dynamic of doing jobs and the amount of funds needed for next year? It is simply an amendment in line with how we read other laws concerning the provision of funds through the Republic of Serbia's budget and that is an explanation. It's not memorized - come on, they said 15, we'll say 1 but there's a basis for the amendment. Of course you're willing to adopt the amendment or not. That's not what it's all about when we're putting up with the amendments. It is our desire for amendments to improve the basic proposed text of the law. All of this, which goes with the amendment debate, can be and not have to be. I consider my obligation to explain to you that November 1st, instead of November 15, was not memorized and only to submit the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35998	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u35999	I just want to explain for a little while. Maybe there's a misunderstanding and a lack of understanding on your part or on our part. This deadline, proposed by us on 15 November for proposing an annual management programme for the national park for next year, includes a number of activities, including funding. However, your argument, where you say we are too late, that we should be early, before the Republic budget is adopted, I don't think it stands, for the simple reason that the controllers manage their resources through their programme and, let's say, the estimated funds they get for subsidies. Therefore, their budget has nothing to do with the republican budget, except in the part of the subsidies, but for this part of the subsidies, they are obliged to have a subsidy allocation regulation by the end of January by the end of February, following the establishment of the budget, i.e. in January or February. So they base their funding on other sources, not on the republican budget, except subsidies, and subsidize through the regulation after the adoption of the republican budget, so in January until the beginning of February. As a result, we do not think it is disputed for this to be November 15th, because it is also in line with the Nature Protection Act and with other deadlines for the adoption of planning documents. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36000	Mrs. Comic, do you want to follow the amendment? (Gordana Comic, from the post: I use the time of authorised representatives and the time of the parliamentary group. Then I must give my word to another MP, and then I will give it to you. The word has been given by MP Milija Miletic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36001	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, I do not think we should accept this amendment. The Minister has already said why, so I invite all fellow Members of Parliament not to accept the amendment. I will vote, as an MP of the United Peasants' Party elected from the SNS list, against this amendment and I will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, because I think it is the 15th November deadline that will satisfy everything that needs to be done, and in the end we heard from you that everything you wrote is exactly what you needed for the programme and the plan of society that will work for the maintenance of the national park. Once again, I call upon all fellow Members of Parliament not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36002	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36003	Thank you. We have a misunderstanding. Because the attitude I am talking about is that “the driver delivers to the competent authority. ” You're talking about subsidies. I'm talking about the Budget System Act. In November 1st, the budget should be entered into the Assembly. What will you schedule with a regulation if you do not have subsidies in January? You're talking about the national park manager having other incomes. I don't talk about them. It's a national park business plan and everything. You put yourself in the law to deliver the controller to the competent authority by 15 November of the current year the management programme and contains activities with the dynamics of carrying out the jobs and the amount of funds needed for next year. You're saying that the amount of subsidies the manager wants determines for himself, but it has to be done by November 15th, and the government has an obligation to the Assembly on November 1st. These subsidies must stand in the Republic's budget. We have a misunderstanding. So you consider it this way. I understand how this happened. Those subsidies will go, then they will go. I'll do this when I'm done just to give the paper. He won't. He won't. We're about to have a change this year. We've got some changes ahead of us after the scening debate. We've got a lot of changes ahead of us about subsidies. We've got changes ahead of us. Don't cut people off those 15 days just because it was routine. If the 6th position applies only to subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget, then it cannot stand on November 15th, then it must stand on November 1st. If it does not apply to subsidies, it shall refer to assets with which the competent authority has no connection. So the national park itself says -- I'm going to have so many millions of dinars for my program of activity, I'm informing the competent authority that that's how it's going to be. That's two different things. If this is different, it doesn't matter if it's November 15th or November 1st or December 1st. I'm talking about an explanation why our amendment is with a date that is also in the Budgetary System Act. I repeat, in the reality of the government being late, whether we're going to talk or not, that doesn't matter. I'm telling you that obviously, by reading the position of 6 of this Article 12, we're either talking about different things or I'm failing to explain to you what is the government's obligation under the Budgetary System Act, when it comes to the budget. If the subsidies for national parks are in that budget, they have nowhere else to be but in the Republic of Serbia's budget. If this isn't about subsidies at all, I mean, you don't need a date.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36004	The word is from Minister Bogosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36005	Here, I'll just try to get this straight, read you what it says. So – the driver in his programme, among other things, provides for the amount of funds needed for next year. That's what he predicts. Otherwise, we're all in the system making, is that right, the programming budget, we have a program budget. We're planning the necessary funds. He provides for the necessary resources. After the adoption of the Budget Law, he knows what he has and what he has in mind, which refers to subsidies, deploying through the regulation in January. So in that part of it, I mean, I don't understand it very well, and it's about the date of November 15th that we proposed for everything I said and what you say was November 1st. So it's just a slow one, but we don't know why. Here, I stand behind the fact that the necessary resources are planned, and how important they will be after the adoption of the budget and what they receive in terms of subsidies will be distributed through the regulation in January of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36006	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36007	Here's the thing. If the law is respected, the government has already introduced a draft budget law in the Assembly on November 1st. Then who does the driver give November 15th? That's all it's about. So, if it's about us wanting to follow the laws and manage to explain why I'm talking about November 1st, because October 15th, the government should set a budget and you should vote and on November 1st to be in the Assembly. If he enters the Assembly, how will the national park manager and what state authority deliver its own funding plan? It's over, it says in the position, once the draft budget becomes a draft budget. It is our wish that national parks have time to submit their plan while the budget is in the draft. If you're referring to the reality that it wasn't for us to respect dates, I understand that, too. I'm not making any drama about it, nor will I make it if it's too late, if it's on time, I even commended the Minister of this government, the previous one, anyway, who did it on time. It is my duty to explain to you why it is necessary to write here on November 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36008	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36009	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when the government makes budget plans depending on how it was last year, according to financial opportunities and according to some fixed standards compared to the previous year. What the national park will do means what it will do according to its wishes, the proposals will plan for next year. Whether his wishes, possibilities, plans will be met is not up to him, but depends on the ability of the government and the resources that the state has in that year. You can't wait for all your suggestions, your wishes to come true, and then the government will meet everyone. He won't. It's about something called budget planning, and it's about the previous year, either according to the possibilities, or according to project plans or to the leftover funds of the reserve that will be able to depend on a given year, when new projects appear, to be realized in the national park. So, the date, whether it's the first or the 15th, is perfect anyway. The national park will give its programme and plan, and the government will meet it, according to some possibilities, and according to the funds it has already planned. I think these things are completely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36010	The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36011	In Article 14, we inserted the words "Guarders must undergo special training that will be prescribed by the competent ministry as well as special security checks. “ A security guard, formed by a controller, needs to undergo security checks, as well as training prescribed by the competent ministry for that position. Particular attention should be paid to the high level of communication of guards, i.e. between them, to the concentration and ability to report rapidly and efficiently about the occurrence, say, fire, gliding, stealing forests, to control groups of visitors in the national park, to control transport, to build material for the possible installation of illegal facilities, which we know there are many within the park's borders, to report all construction activities within the limits for which they would subsequently be determined whether they are in accordance with the urban plan or not. The efficiency of guard services must also be improved by setting up front and exit gates at the borders of national parks where possible, on all access routes with the possibility of moving motor vehicles. Another question, since the previous two have not been answered by the minister, I ask again – what exactly is legal-technically incorrect here, since this amendment was as rejected as the previous two and all these others who will be, such an argument, I would just like you to specifically tell me what is legally-technically incorrect in this formulation that I have proposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36012	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36013	It was written in an explanation for the legal and technical failure. It might be clearer if we had written that it was not formulated in accordance with a unique methodology that is acceptable for our legal service, but it would have been even safer and more certain and more precisely that we said that in fact this amendment does not meet the requirements set out in this bill. So you're proposing something that's right and that's good, but what you're proposing is already an integral part of the second law, the Nature Protection Act. This law implies, among other things, that when it comes to security guards, it defines the precise conditions that they must meet and formulate, or defines the obligation to pass an expert examination for all those who are in the service of security guards. So, basically your proposals are an integral part of the Nature Protection Act, and this part that we have defined as a legal-technical failure, in fact, disagrees with the unique methodology of writing amendments in accordance with this proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36014	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36015	Thank you. The amendment and member of the paradigm. That's why I want to comment, because it's a Article 14 that defines in its four attitudes what a security guard is doing. The first point is now said – the guardian of the protected area performs affairs in accordance with the law governing the protection of nature. In paragraph 2, the controller shall, in particular, form from the conservation service organised in the national park, in accordance with specific laws. A moment ago, in the explanation given by the minister for the guardians, special laws apply, and then you have attitude 3 and attitude 4, for which colleagues propose to delete, which is said to be, paragraph 3. – the guardian of the protected area shall bear the guard's badge for the protected area, and the position 4. – Minister in charge of environmental protection tasks nearer prescribes the appearance of the security guard badge and the conditions for using the guard's badge. So everything you need about the guards is in some other law. I can even agree with you there, especially if I know what problems the guards face, what problems will you face in parliamentary matters when it comes to security services. Then you have a position in the National Parks Act that says the guard wears the badge of security guards. It's a paradigm. It's a paradigm and if this illustration isn't enough for you, then I can only repeat that our misunderstanding about the extent of this law, our misunderstandings here are banal, but insurmountable. I hope that the future Nature Protection Act will allow us to really have mechanisms in our hands to apply the National Parks Act. I end this argument by supporting my amendment to colleagues who say that the badge and that the minister prescribes what the badge looks like, is deleted from the law. It's obvious to me, of course, but most people don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36016	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36017	Article 1 The law on national parks, the draft law in paragraph 2 clearly states on the management, use, preservation and presentation of the national park, shall be applied accordingly to the provisions of the law governing the protection of nature, if this law is not otherwise laid down. Therefore, all provisions of nature protection shall be applied in certain cases, in accordance with matter or subject matter, which is processed by a specific member, the provisions of the Nature Protection Act. As regards defining the obligations of security guards, all these obligations are prescribed by the Nature Protection Act. Therefore, Article 109 refers to the security service, Article 110 to the rights and duties of the guardians, the Nature Protection Act that exists and is valid. The only part of the Nature Protection Act is that we don't have a defined obligation to guard the badge and its appearance and therefore it is an integral part of our proposed National Parks Act. So there's nothing else but that. Everything we could have taken over from the Nature Protection Act, and at the beginning of our law we clearly pointed out in Article 1, and what was not added, and we specifically explained it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36018	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36019	Thank you. That's what I'm talking about, what a misunderstanding it is. You choose which provisions will be in line with the future law on nature protection, which you will not. I'm telling you it's not so good. So you've changed some of the provisions because they're going to be changed in the Nature Protection Act. It is a famous provision for the abolition of the Regional Inspectorate, because you say – we have a preparation, so this Article 25, it will be that there will be no Regional Inspectorate. Here you say - there is no Nature Protection Act, what will the one we are preparing look like? It doesn't matter, but we're going to put here as an important thing to put a guard on a protected area wearing a guard's badge on a protected area. I don't insist on accepting the amendment, although it's not my first time supporting someone else's amendment that's good. I watch what it says, I don't see who signed it. We have a problem here watching who signed the amendment and who's talking, not what's said. That's not how national parks are kept.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36020	I disagree with you. I don't think you're right, this law is really the best possible at this point and I'm particularly proud that a large number of amendments have been passed. The amendments were also made by opposition MPs and ruling parties, so today I am pleased with the Committee that this law, the law, is as it should be in the interest of protecting nature, where there is no interest in party, political, but is the only interest of all citizens of Serbia in protecting nature. That is why this law, the law of all MPs, has been passed amendments and opposition and positions. This is our common law. That is why I do not accept your opinion and I believe that you are in that small group of MPs who consider this law to be in the interest of the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36021	The word is Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36022	I fully understand that you do not accept my opinion. That's my opinion. You can either accept it or refuse it, but good thing it's already a language thing. If I were going to say that the law of the ruling party, I would say that, but I don't. I made it very clear that in the debate about the law, you listen to who's talking, not what's being said, and it doesn't have to be about who's in power and who's in opposition. Yes or no, I'm a small group who believes this law will not produce good consequences for national parks, no one happier than me, to turn out to be wrong. No one happier than me. In the end, I need to share my opinion with you. I wouldn't put any effort, no time, no dialogue in a topic that I don't particularly care about, in a topic that I think can be good for dialogue and in a topic that I think I have enough knowledge about. It obviously doesn't make any other impression to you than to tell me that you don't accept my opinion and that I'm few. I accept that. I understand that you won't accept any amendments. This is not about accepting amendments at all – we do not understand each other at a much deeper level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36023	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36024	I'm sorry to return your call. I only commented on the finding that we weren't listening to what he was saying, but we watched who was talking. For that reason, I have pointed out that this is not true and that I do not share your thoughts with you. It may not be stylishly complex, but I suppose you understand what I'm saying. I have argued this by the fact that we have adopted amendments from MPs, not by looking at who the MP is, from which policy options, but by appreciating what is written in the amendment, all with a goal and a desire to achieve as broad a consensus as possible to support this law, not because we want to be those contractors that we have proposed the law, but because we really want to protect the natural goods of Serbia in the right way. You know this law has been pending for six years. You know that professional people have stood by these provisions, and today I am only here on behalf of them, to try to defend what they have done with dedication, you will admit, for a long time. In doing so, I would like to stress once again that both republican and provincial institutions were involved, and that is also the pride of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the AP Vojvodina. I really won't answer any more, I just don't want to do it like this anymore. I get the impression you want to change the thesis a lot. I agree with you that our thinking is much deeper than it looks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36025	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36026	In Article 15, we believe that the text should be added: “If such objects violate the property of the national park, the owner of the facility should be instructed to bring the facility into a state that will not violate the property of the national park, or remove it.” Objects which, by their appearance and function, violate the property of the national park and do not pay compensation for the use of it, or should be brought into a form that is satisfactory and that will be in accordance with the functions of the national park, or should simply be removed. The current problem of national parks management is also the construction of a large number of illegal facilities which, apart from jeopardizing the natural and cultural values of the park and the very environment of the national park, also causes difficulties in providing all other functions, for example, utility, for example, water supply, sewerage, cleaning, electricity and everything else. In many cases, users of these facilities carried out illegal logging of buildings, poaching, over-gathering of medicinal plants that were protected and other illegal activities, thus jeopardising the natural and cultural historical values of the national park. For these reasons, we believe that this amendment should be adopted, which could contribute to the protection of the natural resources of the national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36027	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36028	These amendments of yours are largely not accepted because of legal and technical failures, and now I have consulted my associates on what it really means to be a legal and technical failure, since I am not a lawyer in the process. They say this refers to the unique methodological rules for making the rules contained in this book – The National Assembly Rules Collection. You know that this is a collection adopted by the Legislative Committee of the Assembly, and it implies this unique methodology, which they, above all, adhered to when they determined which amendment is legally correct and which is not. This amendment of yours, which you have proposed, provided that it has been in accordance with this unique methodology contained in this collection of regulations, and that it could not be accepted, because we are not in this law governing what to do with objects that already exist in a protected area, because it is not within the scope of our ministry's jurisdiction, but rather within the scope of the jurisdiction of other ministries that will have to deal with this problem in the next period, following the identification of the border and the identification of the protection regime in each particular national park in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36029	Mr. Petrich, do you want a replica or an amendment? (Milan Petrovic, from the post: By amendment. Then you'll wait for the order. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36030	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is about Amendment number 15 and he is talking about the fundamental lack of this law. The position of Green Serbia, the position of the Social Democratic Party, is to support counterpart Milan Petrovic in submitting this amendment, and this amendment by fellow MPs speaks of the fundamental lack of this law. This law has no sanctions and this law has no limitations. We still have enough time to withdraw this law from the procedure, to bring it into line with the system laws, or to wait for the adoption of a new law on nature protection, which the minister spoke of and said that this law was absolutely in line with the law that we are about to pass. I have before me a Law on the Protection of Nature, a Penal Code. The Nature Act implies over 120 different violations and speaks of them as commercial offences. We support this amendment because we think the sanctions had to be found in this special law, as the Nature Protection Act predicts. Without criminal provisions, without sanctions, without what is forbidden in the first zone, in the second, third zone, we cannot consider this law, because this law does not protect national parks. The Nature Protection Act cannot protect nature in the same way as Obrenovac, which is nature by itself, and the national park which is the national park, the greatest value, the greatest wealth a country has. In this law, and therefore this amendment is crucial for this debate, there is no sanctions, there is no restriction and at least one violation of these 120 was to be found in the law, in this article, and to be introduced from the Nature Protection Act into the National Parks Act, because the National Park is far more important than nature protection in any part of Serbia. If you are unable to withdraw such a bad Law on the Protection of National Parks, I believe that in the future the Nature Protection Act will be disastrous, that it will continue to collapse the environment in Serbia and I believe that you will never pass a law on the Environmental Protection Fund, because you are always working in the interests of capitalists and large capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36031	The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36032	Thank you, Your Honor. I must note that today's debate led to this member with a desire, at least by the opposition, to transfer more ingenuity to the province's government in running national parks. I don't think the citizens of Serbia should be interested in that. They shouldn't be interested in who's gonna run the national parks. They should be interested in who's gonna run the national parks. The most important thing for them is not to destroy the properties of national parks. However, when we talk about Article 15, I also spoke in principle about this member, and I asked the Ministry of Explanation, because there is a lack of logic. Irregularity appears in the sentence that certain objects in their appearance violate the properties of the national park and they are subject to certain taxes. I don't think there should be objects that violate the properties of the national park, because the essence of the whole law is lost, which is good in any case when we talk about regulating and running national parks. But we must not forget the fact and essence of why there are such laws, and they exist to preserve the natural heritage of the Republic of Serbia. So if the ministry says there won't be any sublegal acts that will sort this out a little bit more detail, I'll have to accept the amendment of the MPs who proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36033	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36034	Two questions. First -- what part, which member of the unique methodological rules is violated by adding Article 2 to Article 15? The weight of publicly spoken words is very serious. So if you're saying that you're breaking a unique methodological rule, then I'm asking you to quote me where they're being broken and what? What violation of the unique methodological rules did the MP make by submitting the amendment? You said you didn't accept the amendment because the uniform methodological rules were violated. I was in this assembly when they were prepared, when they were passed and when the Legislative Activity Resolution was adopted, which among other things was voted in the tide and obliges the government to adopt sublaws together with the bill. I understand every government, and I support and I don't, but I don't understand how you can say that the MP violates the unique methodological rules that apply in general to the one who prepares and submits the law in the Assembly. Is his amendment not in line with the unique methodological rules? Then he can't be here. If the amendment was past the unique methodological rules, then it had to be dumped somewhere during the procedure. He didn't write well, he didn't get a good call, whatever, it happens. Mistakes happen. It means it's not up to you to explain it. It's up to a committee that didn't do it. What's the point of the amendment? The main thing of the amendment is to seek some criminal provision, because the text of the bill in Article 15 says – objects for which no fee is paid for the use of the national park, under the law governing the protection of nature and which in their appearance violate the properties of the national park, which are owned by a legal person, entrepreneur or natural person, are subject to charges for occupying space in the national park. What did you tell me about this member? These facilities look nothing like a rose park, but I will give the National Park Act the manager the right to charge him a fee. So, what's this law about? About protecting national parks or legalising wild construction in national parks? You tell this member how to handle it. Pay the person who broke the national park. It is a member of the law that you say is right and that the amendment of colleagues has been rejected because it does not comply with the uniform methodological rules. You can't decide that. It may be decided by the committee responsible for examining the amendment submitted by the MP. We all make mistakes, but we all have to be more careful when we talk about what is in the law and what are the reasons for refusing or accepting an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36035	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36036	I primarily think that this applies to the essence of this law alone, and I think that this should be an integral part of this law, and it should be inserted through the amendment, because basically the purpose of this law is to protect the natural and cultural values of national parks, not just one, but all others. First that. Secondly, I want the minister to confirm, do you remain in the position that your legal services or legal services have, as already, refused for legal and technical reasons this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has not refused? The Technical Service of the Republika Srpska Assembly did not refuse, and only you found information that due to a certain methodology it was rejected. I would like, as esteemed colleague Goca Comic explained, to tell me specifically which member I violated from the collection of regulations, i.e. the regulation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36037	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36038	A number of topics have been launched through the last three amendments, or two amendments and three speakers, anyway. I want to say that the governance plan is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a ten-year plan. The plan includes bans and restrictions. Therefore, it is not true that this law does not specify or imply prohibitions and restrictions. She'll be defined through the plan. Why through the plan? Because the state of nature is changing and because one continuous monitoring needs to be carried out. Based on this monitoring, the plan is made up, and based on the plan of the annual management programme of the national park. So it is not true that there are no bans and restrictions, as it is not true that there are no sanctions for breaking the rules in national parks. The sanctions are prescribed by the Nature Protection Act, so I don't quote myself now, and I don't quote members, you know that well. As for Article 15, which relates to buildings in protected areas, how to deal with them, whether or not we can remove them, the subject of this law is not to remove these objects, but the subject of this law is to charge a fee for such objects, which will certainly contribute to bringing the owners of these objects to their purposes. This is what is found, and what follows in the future is the creation of a spatial plan in accordance with the protection regimes also laid down by this law, that is, by a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the Protection Areas Regulation, that is, the "Official Messenger" and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36039	Time, two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36040	Excuse me, one more moment. As regards the legal-technical editorial, that is our opinion, the essence of your amendments was not to some extent necessary, it was not necessary, but the legal-technical editorial, or legal-technical malfunction, that is what our legal service assessed, given this unique methodology adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36041	Thank you. I extended it a little bit because you had two replicas on two MPs. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36042	I must say that I do not agree with this amendment and the explanation of the opposition, because if, what is their objection, is the basis for the protection of national parks, then the protection of national parks had to be taken care of far before, when they were in power, when the facilities were raised and when they became in fact there, where they are. If you now think that some new government should come and bring down a thousand, two thousand or 20,000 objects that you don't like, which aren't pretty, I'm not sure how that would echo in public. What would those people who really care about these objects, raised where they were raised during your power, unlawfully or with some right, however, but in any case these objects that are located in the most beautiful places, because the owners themselves are trying to look nice and they are spending a nice spare time beside these objects, at this point they are very difficult to assess. Who would be the one to assess whether they're pretty, ugly, whether they're for demolition or not? Anyway, I think it's been a long time and that they should have been taken care of when they're raised, not now that they're part of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36043	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36044	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to return to the amendment to Article 15. It's just that there aren't enough sanctions. I suppose the previous speaker didn't mean all of us from the opposition because, let's say, the minister was in that government that you're talking about, right, along with them. I suppose you think that the continuity of the bad laws of the ministers continues today, and therefore this law should not be accepted, and this is about an object that has come out or can come out as a mushroom after the rain, it probably appeared by chance, as soon as the rainy object is out, and we're talking about criminal provisions that apply to nature protection. When we talk about a national park, top-notch good, top-of-the-line wealth that a country has, punishment for a hotel that appeared suddenly cannot be three million dinars, if the hotel is worth 300m euros. Everyone's gonna pay three million dinars. Therefore, criminal provisions must be very strict and must be defined in this special law, as the Nature Protection Act provides. You don't have any criminal provisions here. It may be, but it doesn't have to mean the law you bring here. Pull the law, we still have plenty of time. This is bad law, this is a law that introduces legal uncertainty. This is a law that sends the wrong message to investors and this is a law that legalizes everything that has been done in the last 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36045	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36046	I thank you, President. Dear Minister, we have heard many opinions here and it is obvious that there is so much wandering and misunderstanding, and perhaps something else I do not want to comment on when it comes to interpretations and laws and amendments. I firmly believe that MP Petric has both the good and the desire and the will to improve the quality of this law, which he has always done, but as far as this amendment is concerned, I really cannot accept such a suspicion of some parts of the explanation, I am deliberately speaking – according to some parts of the explanation, which have been given by the promoter because the punishment or sanctions cannot be normalised at all, and it is legally unacceptable to norm in this way. The removal of objects, as some form of sanctions, must not be regulated by this law because it is regulated by the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction and the provisions of the Law on Legalisation, so that these are exclusively laws which, as a lex specialis laws, can regulate this matter. The removal of objects in this way goes beyond the powers that can otherwise be prescribed by this law. I don't want to get involved at all in whether it's a unique methodology in line or not, but I can rightly say that it's legally inadmissible, in addition to that indeterminately, formally indeterminately. If interpreted, then it comes that unless the object is brought into a state that will violate the properties of the national park. What's that? Insufficient precision. So there's a kind of abstraction that's being introduced by this term. That can't be legal, not political. In the end, I just want to point out that I really appreciate the good will to, of course, improve the quality of the law with this article, but I must underline that sanctions to this member who is prescribed cannot be an integral part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36047	Thank you. Gordana Komic, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36048	Thank you. A very important member. It won't help any wrapped arguments. The promoter, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, defines the facilities for which no fee is paid for the use of the national park under the law, and their appearance violates the properties of the national park and are owned either by a private person or a legal person, i.e. by a natural-legal or entrepreneur. Then the law says – charge them a fee for taking up space in the national park. Which national park do you want? Will you, Gerdap, will you, Zlatibor, will you, Capalnik, will you, Fruska Gora? Which national park do you want? There are objects there that, according to you, violate the properties of the national park. So how is this applied? Pay the fee for taking up space. If the facility is illegal, how will you charge him for the occupation, what space, when the facility doesn't exist? If the facility is legal, how can you charge him for taking up space? You know what a legal facility does, whatever his plot is. The point in the debate is that with the amendment that a colleague has submitted, who has the right to legitimately yell that it is wrong, to reject it, all in order, but what about what remains in force, what is your proposal? There are facilities that violate the properties of the national park. They're owned by a legal, physical person or entrepreneur. You say by law – pay compensation for taking up space. Are objects mobile or motionless? Are they houses or bees trailers? Are they booths or restaurants? It doesn't say, says the object. This is one of the key proofs that it is the right sentence – you speak with this law to make it look like something. I agree with your wishes, but this law of ours will not fulfill, and it can be very unpleasant in the list of those that national parks will put to you with your name that they are charged with the fees for occupying space in the national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36049	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36050	Thank you, President. If I followed Mrs. Komic's terminology closely, then I'll have to answer the following way. The explanations that are said to be wrapped cannot be unwrapped by an additional wrap. It's about the next one. The point here is that there is no sanction provided for by the amendment. We're not talking about a member of an existing law, we're talking about an amendment. We are talking about the acceptability of this amendment, and the correct acceptability. Any sneer or anything will doubt all of this that I have said for the simple reason that the removal of objects can be done in only one possible way – if a solution is made to remove objects. This solution must be made by the competent authority. The competent authority shall receive jurisdiction or authority under the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction or the Law on Legalisation, and this solution shall again be based on those criteria prescribed by law – that it has been built without a building permit, that it has been ordered to collapse and that it has been deafened to it or anything else. With this amendment, they-they didn't want it, they couldn't prescribe it, they wrapped it and unwrapped it. Let the Proposer make a more quality amendment that allegedly improves the quality of Article 15 and I will support it in a warm way, I have no problem at all, but while such an amendment is as it is, it is impossible, no matter how critical it is to the existing Article 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36051	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36052	In Article 16, in point 10, point 1, we are in addition to all the listed organisations with which the local community, local organisations, citizens' associations should still be "state administration" because we believe, if they are all listed then that state administration should stand in that part. In Section 1, you certainly know that there are in all these national parks besides state property, state forests, that there are private forests. This is a tax-listed list of measures and activities carried out in the protection and development of the national park. It is also listed as the forest manager in state property manages forests in the national park, meaning all common forests. And exactly the manager manages in state forests within the park's borders, but he also manages in private forests located in all these borders on all that territory. Such forests are usually in the form of enclaves, meaning less private area under the forest, within a larger area of state ownership. It also carries out technical and technical measures that are otherwise used in forestry. A great example of this can be the Tara National Park, where, in addition to the ownership of forests in state and private ownership within the national park, professional and technical measures of management are being conducted on forests of state and private ownership together. So, you should pay particular attention to that part, because private forests also raise under national parks, and you should pay particular attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36053	Thank you. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milomir Mijatović, Branko Đurić, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarevic, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo together submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36054	The esteemed chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues, this Article 20, to which we have submitted the amendment, refers to giving consent. Namely, he says – protecting the promotion of flora, fauna especially of hunting and fishing and vegetation of forests and waters, planning and use of natural resources and space, setting up building and agricultural land in the national park is carried out according to specific plans, programmes, bases and projects in accordance with this and other special law as well as management plan. The member is scheduled to give consent to this act in the field of national park. Our amendment we have proposed has been asked to add that for the area of the national park located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. an autonomous province, the ministry gives its consent with previously obtained opinions from the competent regional authority. We felt that, since it is located in the area of the AP Vojvodina and as long as there are some transferred competences, especially when it comes to inspection, some others, or where there is a Regional Secretariat for the protection of the environment, that it is logical to also get the opinion of the competent regional authority, especially if we consider that the province, for example, financed a master plan for the National Park of Fruska Gora, where the aim was to protect the natural values, environmental sustainability, development of forestry, hunting, fishing, beekeeping, agriculture even ecotourism where this is mentioned. And exactly the goal was to get the quality of the document, to get the basis for investors and general those for investing in this area, further development, normally in order to protect them. We have received an answer, such as the refusal of this amendment that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the adoption of those acts has been regulated by another specific law in the field of forestry, hunting and others on the basis of which the competent regional authorities agree under specific laws. It is now one of the forests of special laws, and already today in our debate it is seen that what we have represented in the principle debate, that it was necessary to pass specific laws for each national park with clearly defined and even elements of plans, not to keep looking for other laws and other documents that can help solve the problem. So here I'm wondering which laws, which regulations relating to the area of forestry, hunting and so on, because here the superior goal is to protect the national park, or those plans that aim to protect it. I'm afraid we don't get into a situation where through other documents some things are allowed, and in this area of protection, let's say, they wouldn't be allowed, so I think that this way as it's engaged the answer isn't really an answer for us and it's not a good answer. I repeat, if we had received the bill separately for each national park regardless of the statement in the principle debate, that would be further administration, repetitive members and so on, we would now have everything in one document and for each national park would have practically some kind of sacred letter through which it would be possible to protect this national park, and thus provide the possibility that different interpretations and even abuses of certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36055	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36056	Just briefly, on the question asked why the amendment was rejected, and what are the specific laws, the documents we followed when we proposed this member and we followed when we explained the reasons for the rejection of the amendment. There are several legal solutions to the rules that are current and which we must adhere to, such as the Hunting Act, the Law on the Use of the Fish Fund, the Law on Forests, the Law on Tourism, the Law on Planning and Construction, so these are all laws which we now rely on with this proposed provision. These laws mean clearly defined procedures and provisions, and we now cannot change them with this law of ours. It's simple, just for clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36057	Thank you. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Djorović submitted together. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 21 by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36058	Article 21(1) should read as we do – specialised legal and natural persons who are engaged in the use of national park resources must have appropriate licences to carry out such operations or, if there are no licences, have to undergo special training on non-infringement of other natural resources during work. This member of the law states that a controller may hire specialised organisations legal and natural persons in accordance with the law on certain tasks necessary to use the resources of a national park such as works in the field of forestry, hunting and who knows what else. Of course, given the ministry's consent. Those specialised organisations, i.e. legal and natural persons hired, engaged in the use of national park resources. They must have appropriate licenses to carry out such operations or, if there is no such possibility of obtaining such licences, we believe that they must undergo special training only to avoid breaking the currently specified treasures of national parks. Such training can be carried out by experts for a given area, employed in a national park or by a designated competent ministry that can also organise such a type of training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36059	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The proposer and environmental protection committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović submitted together. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36060	In accordance with Article 23(2) of this Article, it is taxable that all organisations and associations have one member who enters the Board of National Park users. In this list, in our opinion, one representative of private forest owners from the territory should be added, but only from the territory of the national park, given that the percentage of private-owned forests within the borders of the national park is not negligible at all, as can be seen through members of this law, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Also, in the view of the 3rd member, it is said that if military complexes exist in the territory of the national park and objects are designated as one representative of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in the council of users. On the same principle, we also believe that such participation should be taken and taken by a member and representative of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36061	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blagoje Bradic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. The proposer and environmental protection committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm asking the Minister to state whether he accepts the amendment.?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36062	Amendment with correction accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36063	Thank you. The amendment was accepted by the minister. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Blagoje Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted together. I ask the Minister to plead whether he accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36064	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36065	Thank you. The amendment was accepted by the minister. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic to the Annex to the Bill of Law. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the ministers for their work. Thank you. I'm sorry, we'll have a break by 5:00. There was another proposal for the agenda, staff issues, just to get me ready. So, at 5:00 p.m., and after that, it's an immediate vote, because it's a human question. So, please, 5:00 a.m., who wants to attend the vote. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Please, let's get started. Since we've had a break, I ask you to establish a quorum and insert your cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for decision-making. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, to put on the agenda of this session the motion for a decision on the election of the president and the member of the Committee on Papers out of value I am concluding the vote and announcing: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, has voted among the total 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search of the 13th agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents and members of the Committee on Papers of Values. You have received a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Committee, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report to me immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36067	Thank you, Your Honor. Members of Parliament, I, of course, want to exercise my right to comment on the fact that today we are discussing today the election of a President and a member of the Securities Committee. We adopted this proposal, or put it on the agenda just now. The proposal arrived on October 2nd. First of all, I am sorry that the proposing representative did not explain the proposals and the reasons for such a speed. We got a new session today for Friday and I don't understand why it couldn't wait for that session, which is the speed it requires that we discuss this way? Practically, it is an obvious desire that the majority not to discuss this proposal in the congregation today. In my opinion, the proposal is not controversial. I looked at the candidate's biographies. What is unusual is that both candidates are currently employed by the Securities Committee. Does this mean that no one who is not employed can perform this role as president of the Commission? I find that unusual. I have an unusual speed, given that on July 15th, the President of the Commission resigned and this proposal for a new president, we were then given as parliamentary groups a notice, without a deadline, to make a proposal, and then it seems to me, on September 29th or 28th, that a letter from the chairman of the Finance Committee came in two days, until October 1st, to make a proposal. What is interesting to me, too, is that the seat of a member of the Commission has been vacant for almost four years since 22 November 2011, when the previous member ceased his post on the basis of resignation, resigning. So, for almost four years, there was no reason and speed to fill that place, and now practically, using the opportunity that the Rules of Procedure gives, but I can't see the reasons why this is done in this way, we appoint a member of the Commission who, in the final line for both of these, and the president and members, will be their mandate, I think, by 14 July 2016, if those members elected at that time in 2011 the five-year term were to expire. As for the candidates, I think what I can read from the president's biography of candidates, he obviously has knowledge of such a responsible function and his experience is about having knowledge. Whether it will have enough freedom to improve the work of the commission, and above all the development of the securities market in Serbia, remains to be seen. We remain to see if there will be a Belgrade stock exchange, whether it will increase daily traffic on it, whether it will increase in the future, which I doubt while this government is in office and the value of the stock market, whether the work of the Belgrade Stock Exchange will attract new investors, new investments in Serbia, whether the work of this commission and the development of the paper market will create a new job, whether a broker or brokerage company will come, and buy an apartment in Belgrade on water or something like that, these are issues that we will see in the future. It's a shame that these people's mandate lasts less than a year and it's hard for them to say at the end of the term they couldn't fill everything they wanted to do in a short time. And there's no plan or program of candidates here, which is their intention, in which they think they're developing a value charter market, but what bothers me most is the way and the speed at which this was put before the Assembly for a decision, and that's why we're not going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36068	Thank you. Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask... Yes, the word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Here, you're authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36069	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there's no speed here. The president of the Securities Commission resigned, I think, in July of this year. At one of the sessions, the Committee proposed its resolution. We were simply in doubt whether it was going to be at the first next session, to completely block the work of the Securities Commission or to ask the parliamentary groups to deliver candidates to us for the President of the Commission. Since the term of office of a member of the Commission had ceased in 2011, leaving the president would have been a completely blocked effort. The Finance Committee sent a letter to submit the candidates' proposals. Until 24-25 September, no candidate who meets the conditions of being the President of the Commission or a member has been given a name to the Finance Committee since they are the exact same conditions. That's why we in the Finance Committee have reached the conclusion to set a deadline, because if it wasn't enough for almost two months, I don't see anyone who has a candidate, who has a huge number of staff, and that's how the parties of the former regime are represented, and in those two days, that he will propose a candidate for a member of the Commission and the President of the Securities Commission. So there's no rush here. It is a state body that has not worked properly for a longer period of time because of disturbed human relations. I don't see what's so terrible about us now at this session finally putting an end to everything that's been going on in the Securities Committee and moving on. When it comes to terms, one of the conditions is five years of work on securities of value. I don't see many of our experts, when I say ours, thinking of all of Serbia, who have such experience, except for certain brokerage houses and a value charter commission. I do not see what is so controversial that those who are employed by the Commission, which the SNS of course did not hire, are also members of the Commission. We also had a proposal from the Democratic Party. Widely interpreting, the candidate may have met the conditions of being a member of the Commission or of the president. We have no objection to his biography, he worked in various international financial institutions. Whether he had or didn't have any contact with the securities of value, we can hardly determine it, but his biography is, I can agree, impressive. The Committee discussed and interviewed both candidates, in fact the president of the Securities Commission, because we believe that this is an important place. Both candidates had a similar view of the future work of the Securities Commission. Why did we decide to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the current candidate? In one part of the current candidate made a very important difference in the securities market of value, and that was decisive for us. When someone says -- securities of value, we think they're just financial derivatives that solve ownership relations between various economic operators. Are these mixed stock companies, stock companies, limited liability societies, open type, closed type, acquisition of property, etc.? Yes, the Securities Committee is also dealing with this, but Mr. Milicevic had, or suggested one newspaper, I would ask the chairman, if he could have a few MPs to... , which is that financial derivatives whose work is regulated by the Securities Commission are not only equity relations but also financial derivatives in terms of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. So far, we've only had banks on the market that funded micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. You see now, despite the fact that the Central Bank has drastically reduced the reference interest rate, which is drastically reducing the mandatory bank reserves which were an excuse for banks to have extremely high interest rates, and interest rates do not follow the reduction trends that the Central Bank is making. They do not follow trends, in terms of their policies and conditions of obligations, that banks come to capital that should finance both the economy and the citizens and, of course, make profits. Why would private investors...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36070	MP, please, about the candidate, since that's all we have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36071	I'm talking about the candidate programme that has been presented to the Finance Committee and the decision of the Finance Committee why it came behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36072	So, what qualities are candidates, please. Let's just focus on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36073	The candidate's value is that he had a very good programme and that the monopoly on the financial market, in terms of financing the economy, will no longer be in the hands of the banks, but anyone who wants to invest in the stock market will be able to finance, or lend, small and medium-sized enterprises. I should not talk about the good reasons of such a programme, if it is taken into account that the cost of financial borrowing and business and citizens today is extremely high and that one such procedure, if implemented by the Commission, will make the economy cheaper, by investing much easier in its production, new jobs and thus raising both gross product and employment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36074	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36075	The President-in-Office, I am pleased that the Committee President has said a few sentences as to what we can expect from the Commission's work under the new president, and I have just stated this as a reason why we cannot support this proposal, because we do not know anything. So, we've got written biographies that just show the data where whoever did it and no idea what the plan is, what the program is. I'm glad to hear there are plans like this. I want to believe that this will be carried out and that it will give these effects that the chairman of the Finance Committee has been talking about. My intervention went to the fact that I didn't see the reason why we don't have a normal discussion, why this point isn't listed at first in the agenda. She wasn't ready to begin this session, but for a new session that starts in four days... I didn't understand why we should have pleaded today about two candidates for an important institution that should contribute to the development of Serbia's economy. I'm glad we heard some ideas that the new president, I believe he will be elected today, the Securities Committee wants to implement and that he will succeed. I wish him luck, because it's good for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-05-0.u36076	Thank you for taking part in the debate. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Monday, October 5th, 2015, starting at 17 hours and 18 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear Members of Parliament, before we move on to our decision, we ask that we once again determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find, by applying the electronic voting system, that 151 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted nine MPs from the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of ten MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstentions – there was no vote of 158 MPs from a total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of ten MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 158 MPs from the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 162 MPs in total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 159 MPs of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 158 MPs of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote of 154 MPs from 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Social Democrats League Group of Vojvodina submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote of 154 MPs from 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 159 MPs of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 MPs from 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 MPs out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - 157 MPs, of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - 157 MPs, of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted against 159 MPs from the total of 161 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - 157 MPs, of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no vote for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - 157 MPs, of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted against 159 MPs from the total of 161 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 MPs out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 MPs out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 MPs out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, with abstention – has voted against 159 MPs from the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 MPs out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 157 MPs out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 154 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the time. A group of six MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 MPs out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of ten MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 158 MPs of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Biljana Ilic Stosic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 60th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 60th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – no one, with two abstentions, voted five of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. We're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE STATUS OF THE WORLD TURIST ORGANISATION A/RES/422(XIV), A/RES/511(XVI)I A/RES/512(XVI) I am putting on vote the Proposal for an amendment to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation A/RES/422(XIV), A/RES/511(XVI)i A/RES/512(XVI), in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstentions, voted two of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The third item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Saradism in the Area of Tourism I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE ECONOMY ACCORDANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF Macedonia I hereby put to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The fifth item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE PROTOCOL ON THE AMENDMENTS AND APPROVAL OF THE FUNDS OF TRADE BETWEEN THE EFTA STATES AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The sixth item of the agenda - I would like to put the National Parks Bill to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – three, with no abstention, six of the 162 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. After Article 1, the amendment proposes adding a new member of the 2nd member, MP Milan Petrovic, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 12 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Social Democrats of the League of Vojvodina submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 10 MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment with a correction in the course of the search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic Group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of six MPs of the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment, with correction, in the course of a particular search. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 12 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158, of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158, of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the National Parks Bill on vote, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – three, abstention – one, did not vote five, out of the 161 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on national parks. We move on to a decision to confirm international agreements. I'm putting to the vote on the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocol on the Prevention of Contaminants of the Water Caused by Sailing, along with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted three, of the 161 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the bill of approval of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on solidarity in the veterinary area, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, of the 160 MPs present, voted for – 159 against. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a timely exchange of information in the event of radiological danger, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on elections and resolutions. I am putting to the vote on the motion for a decision to suspend the functioning of the President of the Committee on Securities, which was tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of the public funds of the National Assembly, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Duchy of Hungarians, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting on the vote of the motion for a Decision amending the decision on the establishment of the assembly of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilization and Association, which was tabled by the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and member of the Committee on Securities, which was tabled by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of the public funds of the National Assembly, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – no one, with abstentions, voted six of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 1 October 2015, at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 1 October 2015, at 17 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 145, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you. I'll see you Friday.
