ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. The delegation of vote, pursuant to Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Ms María Guadalupe Murillo Solis, who delegated her vote to the spokesperson of the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Puy; and Mr Eduaro Ojea Arias, who does so to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. And, no more, we're on the agenda, point 1. Debate on the opinion and motions for resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector, contained in the 2020 Annual Report of the Council of Auditors: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u2	It incorporates motion for a resolution No 1 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2020; it is followed by four remaining motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission at its meeting on 30 March 2022, which are now being discussed and voted on. In particular, the motions for resolutions 2, 3 and 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group; and the motion for a resolution number 18 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. For the presentation of the Commission's dictation, the President of the Commission has the floor for relations with the Board of Auditors, Ms Raquel Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u3	In accordance with the Bureau of Parliament of 9 August 2021, the writing of the Galician Board of Auditors shall be allowed to refer to the annual record of activities corresponding to the financial year 2020, including the Audit Report of the General Account of the Galician Autonomous Community for the financial year 2019. Having considered the above reports, as well as the four motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, the 20 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia and the 36 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists in Galicia, the Parliament appointed for this purpose, meeting on 15 March 2022, elected the corresponding report and the motions for resolutions to the Commission for Relations with the Council of Auditors, on which this body was delivered at its meeting on 30 March 2022. The Commission's ruling incorporates draft resolution No. 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2019. The remaining motions for resolutions which were adopted in committee are four: motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group, of which paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Group were adopted; and motions for resolutions of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, of which motion for a resolution number 18 of this parliamentary group was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u4	Thank you very much. We now turn to the parliamentary groups for the defence of their motions for resolutions and for the establishment of positions with regard to the others for a period of about 5 minutes per group. [[Pause.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists today want to once again demonstrate our recognition and appreciation of the work done by the Council of Auditors, for the rigorous work done, as well as for the effort made in recent years to provide chronologically the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. But we must also once again once again express our inconsistencies with the development of this Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors, which must be improved both in transparency and in parliamentary debate. The Galician Board of Auditors has sent to this House both the memory and the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia corresponding to the 2019 exercise on July 30, 2021. And we are debating in this House, together with another 25 control reports, eight months later in the Commission and nine months later in this plenary today. A debate that takes place within 10 minutes in the Commission and 5 minutes today in the plenary to be able to expose the content of these 25 control reports, in addition to the general account of the Autonomous Community corresponding to the year 2019, when in most parliaments of the Spanish State this debate takes place separately, giving it the importance that its content deserves. We socialists also want to insist that, despite the important work done by the Council of Auditors in the chronological approach, we are debating the general account corresponding to the 2019 fiscal year, when in other state parliaments the general account of the fiscal year 2020 has already been discussed. See Asturias, Canary Islands, Madrid or Valencia. Question which is not attributable to the Board of Auditors, but to the Government of Greece, which ignores the recommendation made by the Board of Auditors and has once again rejected a proposal submitted by our group in which we requested that the Government of Greece report on 30 June of the year following the end of the exercise, as is done elsewhere, in other communities, such as Aragon, Canary Islands or the Valencian Community; or in July: Catalonia, Balearics, Madrid or Murcia. And not in the month of October, year and a half after the end of the exercise, as is usual in Galicia, with the consequent delay in the preparation of the report, as well as the corresponding debate. This practice, coupled with the continued delay of the House's majority group by convening the Committee on Relations with the Board of Auditors, implies, as I said before, that the first debate takes place eight months after having entered this House; that is, we discussed the general account corresponding to 2019 almost two and a half years after the end of the exercise. A question that is not minor, that separates us from citizenship, that loses vigilance and prejudices the Board itself, which is repeatedly criticized for the delay in issuing its reports. So with these practices, what can be achieved is to distort the work of the Board of Auditors, that the content of these control reports goes through without having the impact that they have on them and, therefore, ignored by citizenship. And it remains the importance of a statutory body to which the Galician Parliament bestows medals but which at the same time does not dignify its work. It's a lack of respect for the work done by this institution, which has the function of monitoring the German autonomic sector as a whole. For this Group of Galicia and for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party these control reports prepared by the Council of Auditors are a mere trial, an uncomfortable procedure and which, in addition, pretends that it will pass without any repercussions, because they give evidence of many effects in the management and transparency of the Greek Government, and reiterated year after year without the Government taking note and modify that way of work. As we have already made a very substantial contribution to the amendments, the Socialists have tabled 36 motions for resolutions which have been rejected as a whole by the group and the majority roll of this House. These are 36 proposals which include the recommendations put forward by the Board of Auditors itself. And proposals I already know that the spokesperson of the People's Party will say that most of them are identical to those presented in previous years; but, really, if they are not incorporated into the management of the German Government, of course, they remain unfulfilled, they remain unincorporated, and therefore the opposition groups continue to manifest and make manifest that different solutions must be adopted. In fact, the Board of Auditors itself states that, from previous reports, most of the recommendations were either not accepted or accepted without any progress being made in their implementation, and 9 recommendations are enforceable. So one thing is what the People's Party says and another is really what the German Government does. Look, I'm just going to go into the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Party, which are incorporated into the motion that we are going to vote on today. By excluding the first one, which is the approval of the general account, the truth is that it turns out to be a little funny and not serious if it wasn't so important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u7	I'm done, Mr. President. On the one hand, it is agreed that the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to continue to comply effectively with the recommendations made. In fact, we asked ourselves: do we continue what? What they had to do was say, do, do, do, take on the recommendations of the Board of Auditors; and don't go on, because you don't go on. When starting from zero or zero like something you can't talk about continuity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u9	And the last one's up to date, when you're saying that you're being told the norm to adapt the accounting to the accounting plan that's approved in 2010. And that year after year the Board of Auditors urges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u11	...the German Government to apply it. We're talking about the year 2010 and you're applying a plan for the year 2001, 2001!, 22 years later...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u12	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u13	...and they haven't adapted it yet. Well, as is quite clear, with these five minutes that give us for this debate are totally insufficient to be able to manifest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u15	...and be able to explain each of our motions for resolutions. We therefore insist that the functioning of this Commission and this plenary should be changed with regard to what the monitoring reports prepared by the Board of Auditors refer to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u16	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u17	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u18	Mr Tabares Pérez-Pineiro speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u19	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Council of Auditors on the medal of the Galician Parliament. But we are clear that the Board of Auditors — as well as the Valedoria or the Glaga Culture Council — would be more pleased if, instead of giving them medals, they would take up a little of their recommendations. As they succeed today, they will vote against — whatever button they have already worn — the proposals and recommendations made by the Galician Nationalist Block, which are substantially identical to those made by the Board of Auditors itself in its 2020 memory. 2020 memory which leaves, above all, three things quite clear by trying to sum up these five minutes. First of all, that the Galician Union has very little budgetary rigour in drawing up its budgets. That your bet, that of the Galician Union, is for the privatization of services and the precariousness of workers. And for the arbitrary nature of public procurement, the lack of control, the execution of contracts and the tolerance of the non-compliances of some of these contractors. And, worst of all, the unwillingness to correct and correct that mismanagement of public resources. On the subject: budgetary rigour is null and void. It says the Board of Auditors - not the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galego Nationalist Block too - that they are systematically resorting to budgetary changes, which is an extraordinary mechanism, because you, the Galician Union, routinely use because the budget appropriations are already initiative, from the beginning, clearly insufficient. I mean, they don't make the budget good. In the same income section. Start revenue with games that are already prescribed, which come from old time, just to match something that would not be square in any way. And as far as Sergas is concerned, they still don't meet the General Public Accounting Plan themselves, or they change the organic structure and they don't change the budget. But the Board of Auditors - and it is quite eloquent - makes you a suggestion, and it is that when they establish tax benefits, they determine the goals they pursue with these benefits, with those tax reductions and the effects and consequences they produce in economic and social policies. I mean, it says the Board of Auditors that the Galician Board is agreeing on tax benefits, is agreeing on tax reliefs, comes down on taxes, and doesn't know what the target is, doesn't know it's being pursued, and much less knows the economic and social consequences of these tax reductions for some more disadvantaged classes. Then he criticizes the Board of Auditors for the privatisation and outsourcing of public services. Public services that are often essential services now provided by private companies that meet the country's structural needs. Let's give an example, an example that private management is no better than public management. For example, if in matters of security, in matters of immobile security, we assist the company of the uncontracted sister... not the company that hires the sister of Nuñez Feijóo, but that the sister of Nuñez Feijóo is seized, 13 workers would cost about 500,000 euros, while if we do so through public agreements, public agreements that are published in the CEO, 206 people, not 13, 206 people would cost one and a half million. I mean, hiring family security costs five times as much to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] Then we continue with deconcentration in agencies. It says the Board of Auditors - not the Galego Nationalist Block - that they are not fulfilling the purpose, that they do not provide private resources, cannot provide private resources. The only thing that these agencies that you call chiringuitos are to avoid public controls, again to favor the work of the pills, or the pillage. Then, with regard to contracts, he says that... irregularities, he warns of irregularities in the adjudication of contracts and irregularities in the extension of contracts, which extend without justification and always in prejudice to citizenship and public resources. 60% of the contracts of the Galego Health Service analyzed avoid competitive competition to encourage certain companies. There are 30% and 40% over-costs in building the City of Vigo Justice. In residences of seniors, they charge contracts without knowing what the cost of the contract they charge, and then they don't pay for the contract. I mean, they get personal agreements, they get that older people aren't getting hired food, they get that, as a result of that staff deficit, they have mechanical restraints on these older people, but it's absolutely nothing. And finally, how can we not talk about the Provincial Deputy of Ourense? Because there is a control report, not by vice, and there in that control report you warn the Board of Auditors, it detects the Board of Auditors that, of the works contracts of the Provincial Parliament of Ourense, 80% are fingered. That, curiously, 70% will fall into the same five companies. And what did you guys do? You guys didn't do anything, despite the request from the Board of Auditors, despite the request from the Nationalist Block of Wales, they didn't do anything. And what is the consequence? We have already anticipated it: that in 2019 this number of works contracts by the Provincial Deputy of Ourense continued to be 80%. In 2020 the number of contracts to which the Provincial Deputy of Ourense was 85%, and in 2021 it was 78%. And look at the consequences. These are two companies that have received contracts for more than five million euros, these are the contracts received by a company. [[Mr. Tabares shows some leaflets.]] You know, when you go in competitive competition, how many contracts do you get? None. I mean, that's pure nepotism. Now, at the time of voting on our motions for resolutions, I hope they can be free to vote and vote if they are in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u21	...to continue this corruption, to continue nepotism and lack of transparency, or to heed the Nationalist Block of Galicia and to heed the Board of Auditors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. King Varla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, good morning to all. The adoption, as has already been said here in this Parliament, of the audit reports of the public sector accounts in Galicia in 2019, contained in the 2020 Activity Report. We too, as the other two parliamentary groups have done, want to highlight the good work done by the Board of Auditors, an independent body, but, in view of what was said here, a body that is increasing its effectiveness, transparency and its work, essentially because, the instances of this parliamentary group, of the House's majority parliamentary group, has increased its powers by law in 2015. That's why, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, it seems that at times we live in parallel realities. For you all that the Galician Council does is wrong, and for the Council of Auditors there are things that can be improved, but that, as I will believe later, if they're getting better, is the fruit of the Government's work that supports this parliamentary group. That's why it would be very important for them to have some coherence, some coherence, not only by talking about what is not yet done, but also by talking about other things, about the proposals you presented when they were government or those that accepted to other parliamentary groups. Coherence and effectiveness because, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you will have to agree with me that, from an objective analysis, merely objective, this approval of the accounts is done in less time than was done before; improved, of course, but in less time. Higher level of effectiveness. Secondly, more reports from the Board of Auditors. So there's also greater transparency. But let us see what this report says that we are submitting Parliament's approval today. First of all, that the Government of Galicia has a stable economic policy and that's why it makes budgets every year. I understand that there are some political groups that make budgets every year doesn't seem like an interesting subject. We believe it's very important to be able to respond to the majority confidence of the Greeks. Make budgets and run your budgets. Look, I'm going to give you a given: 95% effectiveness in the execution of the budgets of the Galician Union. I know they don't like it very much, because it seems like here are only the counts of the Galician board, but they come from the city councils' accounts and come from the accounts of the four deputies. Mr. Tabares spoke of one, I will speak a little, therefore, of the other three. Look, budget execution of the Vigo Town Hall, which I suppose will be a reference to all of you: 68%; 95% of the board. Can we get better? Not 5%. To the Vigo Town Hall, dear! Parliamentary deputation of the Coruña, of course!, is that the deputation of the Coruña, budget execution: 40%. Galician union: 95%. Do we have much to improve? Yes, but you could look a little too at what you could do for the inhabitants of the municipalities where they rule. Mr. Tabares, I suppose the statement on some public procurement of a particular case that you have made here read it in some BNG argumentary, not in the Board of Auditors' own reports. Because you're talking about some things that I think are more of a supportive debate than the Board of Auditors says. I, of course, did not find the word "nepotism" in the hundreds of leaflets that come to pass today in this Parliament. Look, the reports say what they say. Of course, I, on accountability, page 21 of the Control Report: "General Intervention rendered in due course the general account of the 2019 financial year, which, in addition to the General Administration account, includes accounts of 71 instrumental entities." It also says, with regard to debt: "In the report it is believed that, in terms of the debt-to-GDP ratio at market prices — so they do not talk about debt here, they speak in arguments and in the media—the Autonomous Community of Galicia presents a level of indebtedness at the end of 2019 of 17%, a percentage of less than 6 points than the average of the autonomous communities." And you come to say something else. And then -- very quickly, because I don't have time either -- recommendations, recommendations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, I'm going to tell you very briefly about the three deputies you never talk about, and very briefly about what you say to Junta. Member of the Coruña: It is generally recommended that Members adopt a specific regulation on cooperation plans. And about the allocation of funds, did you read what you said about the allocation of funds? "From the accumulated data to...—read textually, uh!, of course, this is not an argumentary, it is what the reports say—...for the four plans, it makes manifest a strong imbalance in the subsidising activity of the Deputy: Paderne, Fisterra, Toques, etc.", how it is distributed. The same about Lugo's Deputy. Also, curiously, what the Board of Auditors says, if we translate what the reports say, the political color of the municipalities, is that the most important ones are the councils governed by the Socialist Party and the BNG. And the same is true of the Deputy of Pontevedra, about "the strong imbalance—textually—of the Deputy of Pontevedra in the subsidising activity of the Parliament by means of agreements". So that they are always talking about the others, rather than taking a little interest in what they objectively say about these reports of a Board of Auditors that we respect, what we broaden our competences and what we positively receive from them. We believe in the Board of Auditors, we believe that the Greeks still deserve more and that's why we're here. Because, out of the 96 recommendations to the Galician Union, 90 were answered, 78% were accepted and 60% were applied or in the process of application. It says on the recommendation the report of the Board of Auditors: "As regards the previous exercise, it is necessary to highlight the significant increase in the number of recommendations in the application process that were pending to be implemented". Is it worth it? Of course. Are we moving forward? Of course. That's what we believe from this majority group and what they unfortunately believe is the set of the Greeks and the set of the Greeks that have just been consulted. [[Murmurs.]] So, for what we have done but, above all, as far as it goes, we ask for the approval of this account, we are proud of the People's Party Government and we ask for the vote in favour of this dictation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the vote. In principle, there are two different votes. The first vote shall be the vote of the Ditame issued by the Commission on a strictly non-legislative basis for relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia, contained in the 2020 Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors. It incorporates draft resolution No. 1 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have a second vote on the resolutions adopted. We have the second vote later, okay? I repeat, we turn to the vote on the first point, which is the opinion issued by the Standing Committee. Vote of the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia, contained in the 2020 Annual Report of the Council of Auditors: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2019 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This first point is therefore unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u25	And now the second point we have to vote on is the motions for resolutions, the number 2 of the People's Parliamentary Group, the number 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group, the number 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group and the number 18 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. They asked for a separate vote, which one? Sorry! No, they're all together. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no problem. So we voted first of all those of the People's Parliamentary Group. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 2, 3 and 4 of the G.P. Galician people in relation to the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector, contained in the 2020 Annual Report of the Council of Auditors: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2019 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. The motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u26	We are now voting on motion for resolution No. 18 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Motion for a resolution No 18 from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block in relation to the monitoring reports of the public sector of Galicia, contained in the 2020 Annual Report of the Board of Auditors: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2019 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is therefore unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u27	So we moved on to item number two on the agenda. Comprehensive discussion of the Water Cycle Management Improvement Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u28	The following amendments have been tabled to this bill in full: of the Socialists' Parliamentary Return Group, document No. 33621; and of the BNG Parliamentary Return Group, document No. 33618. For the presentation of the bill, we give the word to the advisor, who was about to enter. The doors were closed by the vote. We give him two minutes, because we're going ahead of time, and, like we did the vote, we're going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u29	For the presentation of this bill, you have the floor of Mrs Vázquez Mourelle's Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, after the relevant processing, today we bring to this House the bill for improving the integral management of the water cycle. A new law that complements and expands the framework promoted in recent years to improve the quality of water, to conserve water. I think we're all aware that it's a sensitive good, a scarce good, a good that can't be replaced and that it's vital, and that's why it pushes us, by environmental responsibility, by social responsibility, by economic responsibility as well, to enable tools to guarantee its quality. A guarantee that, indisputably, it will optimize the provision of these basic supply, sanitation and purification services, which are of municipal competence and, in that sense, we are committed to rational use, efficient use of water resources, increase savings and ensure the proper functioning of all those infrastructures that guarantee supply, ensure the continuity of such important activities in our economy, such as fishing, seafood, tourism... And achieving those goals of ensuring supply and ensuring the quality of water in Galicia are the objectives that guide us to this law. And it depends on the effort and the involvement and, of course, the awareness of all, and each one assumes the responsibilities that can touch us, each one in the place where he is. Only from collaboration and joint and coordinated work will we be able to optimize the management of the integral cycle of water and to face with guarantees our future, in a climate change context, and I think it is a reflection -- hence we see it from the Galician Union -- which is shared by the Economic and Social Council, which positively assesses this rule, which has led to collaboration and coordination. I appeal to the spirit of dialogue that we have seen in recent months with this bill, and I appeal for constructive participation in this Parliament. The bill deepens in the water regulation work we've seen in recent years. In 2010, we have the Galicia Water Law, the corresponding regulations that develop it; we have Law 9/2019, guarantees of supply in droughts and health risks. Two very important laws to add to hydrological planning. Even yesterday at the Rector Council we approved the Galician Coastal Hydrological Plan for this third cycle, the Galician Sanitation Plan, the local sanitation plans, the supply plan, and now we add this bill to improve the entire water cycle, which follows the path marked by the Local Water Pact: advocate for the coordination of all administrations and ensure a solidarity, equal and transparent model to help the city councils exercise such complicated and as costly competition as water management. Not only must we run infrastructure, I always say it when I have the opportunity in Parliament, we must know how to exploit it and keep it properly. This policy framework will serve to that end, to ensure efficiency in the exploitation of sanitation, supply and purification systems, and it is the result, this work, this bill, is the result of many experiences from all the staff of the Galician Waters and all the experience accumulated to help the municipalities in this task. We have been helping the municipalities in the last decade, in the execution of infrastructures, with 1,100 million euros, in investments in purification works, supplies and sanitation works, which has allowed us to increase ten points the quality of water and water masses, which are increasing the good state, but we continue, we have to continue to move on, do something more, do something more than do infrastructures. And in that sense we want to help the municipalities develop not only infrastructures but also to ensure their operation. Immobilism is not an option for the Galician Union, and in that sense we take another step not only by helping economically build infrastructure, but by helping, we offer ourselves to help the municipality we want, help us exploit sanitation, supply and purification systems. We want to make sure that water systems work well and that's where this law focuses. We want to professionalize infrastructure management services, optimize their operation. As I say, help the city halls to make the works work work well. That's our main objective with this law. The councils that they want, that they wish, that they ask, we offer to help us make the works work well. They know that the autonomous administration has no competence in the water system, in supply, sanitation and purification, they have the municipalities. Law of local bases of regime: it is direct and exclusive responsibility of the municipalities. In any case, I insist again on this division of competences, because sometimes I must explain very badly, I must explain fatally, because sometimes I see that my teaching ability is very limited, because sometimes it seems that you don't understand the division of competences, but it's important to know, you know, to recognize it, to look at how you can help and how you can collaborate. I don't think there's any argument. I even think you'll agree with me, Mr Bará, that water is vital for life, and it's a basic service. The quality of water must also be basic, public health, natural environment, economic activities such as fishing, seafood or tourism. It is therefore essential to ensure that our resources are managed as efficiently as possible. We can't spend a million dollars on works, spend millions on hydraulic infrastructures if they don't work fully. And in that sense we have to help the municipalities, yes, we have to help the municipalities to that costly and complicated task, which is what we are doing with this law, to offer a new help, to strengthen the municipalities' help to make the works work well. We can't afford municipal debuggers, city debuggers are working badly. Not all active debugging systems, we see UVA rays that are off or other debugging systems in their own installations. We can't afford streams of white water massively infiltrated into the networks, because it affects the operation of the debugger. We can't afford greenery to the industrial municipal network without a pretreatment that violates the greenery orders. We can't afford this series of things, and we have to ensure that these municipal debuggers work well, it's a joint system, net-depurative, for them to work well, and that's a challenge that we have to give you, and give you an answer by helping the municipalities exercise this competition. It's urgent to solve these problems, and I insist, to help whoever you want, to help you, we're going to help you. And we can't be in mass and saying: urge the Galician Union to solve all these problems and then, when we offer to help, when we offer solutions, unfounded and interested pastes, when we propose a useful means and a useful standard to help the municipalities, I insist, help the works work well. We're in a climate change context. We cannot afford irresponsible consumption, with 40% leaks in supply networks and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I insist again, water management is a very difficult technical task, very cost-effective from an economic point of view. We know that at the Galician Council, the mayors, all the mayors, and I also hope that they will be aware of this parliamentary arch. The reality is obvious, it is contrasted: the municipalities are overwhelmed and are unable in many cases to cope with the management of these purification systems, collector systems, supply systems, drinking water treatment stations, purification treatment stations... and therefore we are willing to help to achieve these objectives, these very clear and necessary challenges, by environmental responsibility, by social responsibility and by economic responsibility. It's a law that is based on the wide experience of the entire staff of Galician Waters, which they constantly call mayors for advice. Experience of analysis, of current situation, of seeing problems, of planning, of execution of works, of infrastructure management, that knowledge of the reality that all the employees of Galician Waters have, the peculiarities and peculiarities that Galicia has is what led us together, because it is a law, of course, drafted and worked by the entire staff of Galician Waters, I can confirm and ratify it. And that's why we've done this law, to help whoever you ask, to the municipalities that ask for it, to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the provision of urban water services. It's a clear framework for guiding efficient management, there are very clear guidelines, and also for tracking this management, which is more efficient and professional. And the law has concrete tools to improve and professionalize water management. We have clear guidelines to guide the municipalities to do things better, to do things right and to work hand in hand, and to work together. Drafting of greenery control plans to networks and collectors. I insist again, in the sanitation networks, they can't spill the industries without pretreatment, violating greenery orders. It's important that this control plan, it's going to be able to tap into the networks. Sanitation and sanitation model in small population groups. Optimizing network rain management, too, too, too, too much infiltrated water is a problem, you have to control it. It also improves the energy of the facilities. Therefore, clear guidelines for helping municipalities, as a guide for more efficient management. And we will also implement a regular and continuing training program for technicians and municipal officials to improve their training and advance in a professional water management. Secondly, they know that it is a voluntary accession system. I insist again, because it seems to me that sometimes I explain fatally: whoever wants, we help him freely, we help the council that freely asks us for help in the management of those services that we want to professionalize. So let's extend this model to the Galician set, whoever you want, any municipality can ask for it. We're expanding our aid to more than 28 municipalities, where they know we've carried 28 clean farms. We also want to expand the aid where we are exploiting the debuggers, we also offer help in the municipalities and, therefore, shield the efficient and efficient and sustainable operation. As I said, a model remains in absolute freedom of the municipalities to decide whether they want us to help them or not, or more or less, voluntary help to exploit the services of water. As a previous step, logically, an in-depth audit. We have to know what we have to do in order to exploit it well, an audit that we offer to perform from the waters of Galicia, if they show that we have to do some work, we do a third of all the works we have to do in the municipalities that freely ask for help from the waters of Galicia, and that co-responsibility of all administrations has to be paired up for the rest of the investments. They know that our initial proposal is that Members... because they have the legal duty to help the municipalities exercise their powers, in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, and supply and sanitation is a municipal competence, we must regret that they have no desire to cooperate to achieve these environmental objectives. In any case, we appeal to co-responsibility in general, also to the Confederation of Mine-Sil, as a casting agency, to assist in the necessary investments and works in audits. We also set up deterrent mechanisms. Dissuasive mechanisms because what we want is to get things done right. And, therefore, we want to help, we don't want to fine, we want to help make things work well, and there, in that sense, are the deterrent mechanisms. As I say, the municipalities can choose, they can also choose the municipalities where we carry the debugger today. Today we take, we assume, the management of 28 debuggers, the municipalities can freely choose whether the Galician Union continues to exploit that debugger or whether they want to take over the management of the debugger. I've already told you that practically everyone wants us to continue exploiting their debugger, and for some reason it will be, for some reason it will be. Minimum requirements of common sense, I insist: transparency, clarity throughout this process. What we have done is not a phrase, it is a very clear fact of transparency, the whole participatory process of a law where we offer a webinar without escaping any questions, we prohibit no questions, in a webinar where more than 100 municipalities have been able to think and ask, and a law — I insist — proven to be transparent, which is a model of equality and solidarity and transparency and which, of course, is an important aid to the municipalities. We bet on flexibility in investments. I'm done, I'm out of time. The goal, of course, is to help, help investments, help plans and audits, and help, now more, the exploitation of water management. Because water management, ladies and gentlemen, is expensive, ungrateful and complex, our duty is to help the municipalities, freely, that they want. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u31	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now move on to the task of defending amendments to the whole, of returning and of positioning the bill. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to defend her amendment to the whole Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you and good morning, Counselor. In this bill, several issues are raised which are fundamental and which should be the core of this future law. Water is an essential asset for citizenship and economic activity, a heritage asset that must protect, defend and treat as such. The effects of climate change also give us clues to our community of changes in the rainfall regime. So it is necessary to make progress also in responsible consumption and in efficient and efficient management of the entire water cycle, so public administrations are required to ensure water supply, as well as safe, predictable and quality treatment. And for that, a set of infrastructures are required that enable storage, potability, distribution and debugging and that also contain proper exploitation and maintenance. The current situation in Galicia is that there are many deficiencies, some of them very serious, as the council itself recognizes, in providing supply and sanitation services, so it is necessary to find solutions to deal with them and achieve efficient and quality management. Since, then, universalization, efficiency and efficiency of the integral water cycle is one of the most important emerging challenges in environmental matters and a responsibility of all. The curious thing is that in this bill, in the replies to the allegations, in the documentation provided by the Infrastructure Council, by the Galician Waters — and also by the words you have just expressed at this time in plenary — the fundamental issue of the law was whether volunteering or not of the municipalities was established to ensure that the provision of supply, purification or sanitation services was developed by the municipality itself or that management was delegated to Galician Waters, to act as the service provider. The question, given this, might even seem reasonable to us. The nuances come, Counsellor, when the content of the bill and the reality of the management that you have done during these years Waters of Galicia are often analysed, so I will base my exposure on four issues that for socialists are fundamental and are the basis of the amendment to the full refund presented to this bill by our group. The first question, Counsellor, is that the bill repeats over and over again that the supply of drinking water, purification and sanitation are the city hall's own competences, and you here, in your exhibition, repeated it about ten times a half. And the truth is, the laws governing the local regime establish that they are the competences of the municipalities. But it really points out that neither in this project nor in its words is said at any time that the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia provides in its Article 27 that the Autonomous Community has exclusive competence. Point 7 states: "In public works which do not have the legal qualification of general interest of the State or whose execution or exploitation does not affect another community or province". Or in its paragraph 12 it says it has competence in hydraulic uses, channels and irrigation when the waters speak entirely throughout the territory of the community. Nor do you remember — and you did not remember — that the Spanish Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government establish and enshrine the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of local authorities. Nor did he recall that Article 5 of the Law regulating local bases of regime provides that local holdings of sufficient resources will be provided for the fulfilment of their purposes. And I remind you, Counsellor, though I am sure you know perfectly well, that these resources must come through the involvement of local authorities in state taxes and taxes of the Autonomous Community, through current transfers of an unconditional nature and to cover the differences between the expenditure needs of the entities and the resources that they can obtain by their own means. In addition, in the case of Galicia, this participation is materialized in the Local Cooperation Fund, a Local Cooperation Fund which, since Mr Núñez Feijóo's reign - i.e., for the past 13 years - has not increased by a single euro, for the Greek municipalities, through this unconditional fund, almost 113 million euros. But, look, too, at Law 9/2010, of waters of Galicia, it states that the hydraulic works whose planning, programming, project, construction and exploitation is attributed to the competence of the Autonomous Community through the water agency of Galicia, as clarified by the Supreme Court, in a judgment — which you are sure you know but I have here, so that you do not say that we use data that is being evaluated—of January 26, 2022, so that it obliges the Galician Union to pay four million euros of fines to the European Union for the delay in the debuggers of Vigo and Ribeira, and expressly rejects the attempt of the Galician Union to blame the municipalities. A legal remedy for failing to comply with the Urban Waste Water Directive of more than 30% of the inhabitants, equivalent to the EDARs that directly manage Galician waters. Today, Counsellor — you know that too — there is another infringement of Community law by infringement of the Urban Waste Waters Directive for the EDARs of Pontevedra, Soutomairo-Arcade and Soutomairo with Boa, which will probably also end up in another sanction for the Autonomous Community of Galicia. So the reality is that the management of Galician waters over these years, since its constitution, doesn't seem to be the most efficient. You have just insisted again and again on helping the Town Councils, helping the Town Councils, as if the Galician Union had no responsibility. The truth is, it seems, by his words and by his exposition, that he should thank the Council of Galicia for something that would suit him as well. A second question, Counselor. Once again the Galician Union intends to regulate by law a proposal which has not been agreed with the main affected, the councils, unilaterally establishing how they must exercise both the powers conferred by basic law on them by imposing on local authorities the default forms of economic collaboration, in a model which has not been debated, shared or agreed upon, and which therefore runs contrary to the principle of local autonomy. It is curious that you have insisted on this forum a few moments ago in collaboration and dialogue, when in the allegations made, and which are part of the document that you have sent us, is precisely concerned with the lack of dialogue and the lack of consensus to reach agreements and is against that unilateral imposition by the Council of Galicia. Look, the waters of Galicia set the conditions for the council to materialize the delegation, insisting on that volunteerness of which you were gallant. And what it says is, if you don't want it, leave it alone; competition is yours, without setting up the conditions of that delegation, without a strategic development plan that contemplates neither the date to comply with the necessary works nor the criteria for periodicizing works throughout the territory. And when you and your own advisors say that the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan is being developed for the next 2021-2027 cycle and is still in consultation. It's also curious that, in one of the answers to his allegations, he literally says, "The diagnosis of the existing problem is made, the problems are known. Now it is up to us to formulate solutions that are urgent and that involve corrective measures and to offer solutions so that we can deal with the challenges and for that reason the proposal is the content of this draft law." The truth, Counselor, is that, for us, in this project, neither does knowledge nor diagnosis and much less solutions come from a previous strategic plan or agreement with the administrations involved. A third question. The Council of Galicia intends to take charge of two-thirds of the cost of works: one-third is run by the Self-Government; one-third is required directly by the Councils; and the other third is intended to condition itself, through the sole plans or POS of the Members, that investment, giving up other investments that may be needed by the municipalities in their territory. And if it's not through the deputies because they're looking for life to find it because the Galician Union — a good dad who's wonderful because he's willing and wants to help the municipalities — puts a third of that amount that's necessary. And really, in the answers themselves made in the allegations, part of the actions and investments of Galician Waters are financed from own funds. And, as you well know, Counselor, these funds are not always within reach and have no access to most of the municipalities, basically those of smaller size. And the board itself indicates that the proper management of infrastructures that enable them to deliver such services with quality and efficiency needs a technical and economic capacity from which most municipalities lack. But you, in your goodness, in that wonderful goodness, what you want is to help the municipalities. And, well, another of the issues that are covered by this bill is that, for the municipalities that do not opt for the delegation of service management in Galician Waters, they establish that the technical and financial collaboration that is being provided by Galician Waters will not be affected and will continue to be carried out for all local entities in the same way as it has been done. A question that Socialists are concerned about, even more, because the criteria of necessity and urgency that unilaterally determine the Council of Galicia in the distribution of public funds are known and measurable. Yes, which translates into that greater necessity and that greater urgency come when the municipal government of the municipality is of the People's Party. Here I prove it, Counselor... yes, Vigo is one more municipality; here I am withdrawing the big municipalities and, if you like, look, I don't have time but if you want to list them. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a chart.]] This is taken from the mandatory publication of the agreements that four months ago you have to publish the Galician Union; they are all here, Counsellor, do not confront. You have a problem, Counselor, and you always come with the axe in your hand. He doesn't come in dialogue, he doesn't come with his hand held, he always comes with the defensive and the axe in his hand. It's not right and it's not, besides... No, Counselor, you are a counselor and should therefore adopt another tone and another way of addressing the councils. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] The fourth question I'm going to base my argument on is that, according to the board itself, this bill doesn't bring new fees to users, it just reorders them. You know that since 2012 the Autonomous Community has had a rate of debugging called a greening coefficient and that is applicable in those municipalities where the Galician Hydraulic Administration provides the debugging service. And the board itself recognises that the difference between the volume actually treated in the debuggers and the volumes that are recorded produce an incomplete recovery of the costs that is not insurmountable by the mere increase in tariffs, but that it is necessary to extend the taxable bases subject to taxation. The fact that, in addition to the need to establish a specific rate to cover the costs associated with the sanitation service that the Autonomous Community can provide, requires the creation of a specific rate for each service, derogating the green coefficient; thus, two new taxes are created: the debugger management cannon and the collector network canon. Counsellor, this is literally copied from your reports; one out of two, or what you refer to as opposition groups are not correct, or you're missing the truth. Literally, in my second intervention I'll take where it is and show it to you. I always come with data, data that is ratified, and in this case it's the data that you provide us with. And in addition, he speaks of a new supply canon, the provision of the water supply service by the Galician Hydraulic Administration, which will present a new amended bill within a maximum of three years from the entry into force of this law. But, look, Madam Counsellor, if we look at the financial sustainability report -- look, that is what I have here, if you want me to leave it here to Mr President, as I have done on other occasions. I'm also going to leave you the sentence, so I don't want you to say that I invented it or that it's not right, that of the four million you have to pay for the Galician board and that you wanted to take over the Town Councils. Yeah, look, this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u33	You have to finish, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u34	...—Yes, I have already finished, Madam President—in this financial sustainability report it is estimated that the increase in revenue related to these services, in the first exercise of the vigil of the new standard, is EUR 14,224,022. Who's going to pay for this increase, Counselor? This reaffirms that there will be no increase in rates and that they will have to pay the neighbors and the neighbors? I don't think it's right. I hope you answer me. And, I'm telling you, all the data we present are evaluated. And you should come hand-in-hand and hand-in-hand and not with the axe in your hand, which is what you usually do, even with those of your own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. We will take advantage to greet the students and the sixth primary students of the CEIP Multilingual Plaza de Barcelos, of Pontevedra, who are accompanying us right now from the rostrum. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It's now the turn of the Galician Nationalist Block to defend its amendment to the entire return of this bill. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u36	Thank you, President. As a Member for Pontevedra, I want to welcome the student from my city's Barcelos School. Counsellor, welcome to this plenary session, to this Parliament. I think we can talk about two basic ideas that we could agree on as a starting point. One is that water is very scarce; and, of course, all the panorama and data are making it manifest, and we have to take this question very seriously, because we think we swim in abundance but, really, what we are facing is a great challenge of how to manage scarcity. And the second question is that water is an essential asset, I would say more, I would say that it is an essential human right, as a United Nations resolution has clearly said; or, as the Water Framework Directive says, that water is not a commercial asset like the others, but a heritage that must protect, defend and treat as such. And, said this, we go into the differences, which are very deep, about what we understand must be the management of the water cycle. And that's why we're asking for the return of this bill, because it seems to us that it's the project of an interim government, a government that works by inertia, a government that we can qualify for from the four D: an overflowed government, an unheaded government, a disorientated government, and a government that is disconnected from reality. And this is very disturbing, especially this last question, Counselor. [[Applause]] A Government that does not take into account, first, the reality of the country and the need to design a new water management model that adjusts to the parameters of what is called the new water culture. The new water culture is not present in this text. Secondly, a Government that does not take into account the context of climate change and therefore the need to act in a priority and urgent manner, not in infrastructure management or in improving infrastructure management, but in preservation, conservation, resource protection, resource savings, resource efficiency and resource reuse. Because you don't have this proposal either. And thirdly, what we think is more serious is that it does not take into account this project the context of a serious economic and social crisis in which we are immersed right now, which is causing a massive rise in prices. And you couldn't choose a worse moment to process this bill and give this real stab in your back to consumer people, businesses and municipalities, who are with water in their necks. And you still want to drown them with this scandalous rise of prices that they propose in this bill. And, besides, this project, Counsellor -- we have to tell you clearly -- is the recognition of a failure. You are implicitly recognizing that they have done things wrong or let others do them wrong, and in spite of the multimillionaire investments they're talking about -- because they've invested 1,100 million euros over the past 13 years -- reality, what the data tell us, is that the situation of the rivers is disastrous; that we have more than 270 contaminant greens in the rivers of Greece, which should be a great productive manage. The report has just been published — I do not know if it has seen it — about the situation on the Arousa Island last Friday. Counsellor, it is really alarming the loss of productivity that we are having in the Galician rivers and, in particular, in the most productive stream, that is that of Arousa, where, according to this data, 10 million euros are lost each year for low productivity. This has to do with pollution, basically, and with other factors as well, but with pollution. We're talking about the unfortunate situation of Galician debuggers, of municipal management and also of those who manage Galician Union. You don't want to talk about this, but you also want to be in charge of the Galician Union. We're talking about the enormous deprotection of wetlands, which should be the object of special care and protection; that's what we're talking about protecting resources from its source, natural river reserves; all these issues are fundamental. We're talking, Counselor, about your inability to manage the board's own budget, to execute the budget. Only in 2018 did you stop running 25 million euros of the 38 waters of Galicia. This is the finding of the poor capacity, of the management disability they have. But besides, you were unable to manage 115 million of the ERDF Plan for Environmental Investments and Hydraulic Policy in the period 2014-2020. 115 out of 175 million who have not executed and blame others, but it's their responsibility, to the waters of Galicia, which you run. And, finally, that is why we have the fines, indeed, the sanctioning files of the European Union, because you have failed to comply with the Water Framework Directive, which in 2015 had achieved the good quality of river and river waters; and now you have also failed to comply with that same forecast for the year 2021, so we have the fines above. It's the responsibility of the German Government, it's not the primary responsibility of the municipalities. And, look, besides all this is proof and demonstration of the disappointment and division of the German Government, because you disagree. Galician waters, which depend on infrastructure, do not agree with the environment, do not agree with the rural environment, are in permanent struggle. And besides, this is all proof and demonstration, the clear proof that I'm a divided party. I'm a divided government and a divided party, the more you strive to talk about unity, the more I have to tell you what... "tell me what you boast and tell you what you lack" — thank you, Olaya. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Actually, tell me what you're assuming and I'll tell you what you're missing. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] I really, counselor, what I see is that knife sharpeners have a lot of work with you, and they're taking care of it. I'm telling the knife sharpeners because if we talked about the guillotines they're preparing in San Caetano, that would give you a lot of talk. And perhaps many of these blue banks end up red in the next few days. Anyway, that's another chapter, a separate piece, we'll talk another time. No, I'm not saying it for you, I'm sure it doesn't affect your guillotines, but some are preparing your neck, or some. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, after this preamble I would like to come into question on those issues that seem fundamental to me, in the discrepancy as to the problems that we see in this bill, which are basically five questions: the first is that it has a totally wrong general conception; the second is the lack of planning; the third is that it has implicitly an absolutely abusive rise of taxes; the third is that it proposes a policy of extortion and coercion to the municipalities; and the latter is the lack of dialogue and participation. First reason for discrepancy. It responds to an obsolete general conception, despite the pompous and misleading name of the law: improvement in the management of the integral water cycle. There is no improvement here in the integral management of the water cycle, there is an absolutely linear management of the water: to capture, transport, supply, debug and pour and to throw into the sea, mainly. This is the conception. It's not an integral management policy, a circular water management policy, as proposed by the new water culture, and then we're talking about it. Because, of course, you are now processing another water catchment macroproject, for example, in the River Verdugo and Oitaven, — you and other administrations — which is a real delusion. And if they don't tell us here what they think of this issue. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, this year we're being dealt with because you're signing an agreement for this. And at the same time, by the way, they plant a commercial macrocentre in the area of Vigo, in Tameiga-Mos, or they plant the delusional industrial wind project in the Swede Mountains to destroy that great water collector that is The Suido. And we want to make it clear one thing: we will not allow this defeat, this barbarism, and we will not allow it, not the BNG, but the people of these municipalities, who will manifest themselves, who will pronounce themselves, who will put all the poles on the wheels that need these destructive projects. Second reason for discrepancy: the lack of planning. It's just that you spend a lot of time laying down other people's duties, but you don't put up your duties or do your own duties. Because you have powers that are in the Water Law, you have to do the General Sanitation Plan, you have to do the General Supply Plan, and you haven't done it. We're at this point without them. And these plans define the works of interest of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which are also those of the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan. Then don't say they have no competence. They have skills and you're in charge of putting it on the papers and putting it on the laws and putting it on this law as well. And therefore they fulfil their powers. Third reason for discrepancy: it's a norm with a clear purpose, it hides a strong rise in taxes at the worst moment. Because, of course, this law was done more than a year ago, but now we're in a context of indiscriminate and abusive price rise, and you're going to do with this rule is to raise taxes to businesses, especially to small and medium-sized businesses, to people, to homes, and also to increase the expenditure of the municipalities. That's a reality. But, look, we don't say it, is that it says the economic memory I have here, the document you made in the Galician Waters itself, which clearly says what the forecast of rising revenue from Galician Waters is. And where does this revenue come from? From the rate up, from the tax up. Mr. Fixóo is now presenting a tax discount plan, tax rebates, and do you know what he's doing on his farewell to the German Government? To transfer here a tax relief plan, tax relief, up the water price to the Greeks and to the Greeks. This is reality, pure contradiction. Look, this is clearly what this document says, the economic study. You say it: 28 debuggers, 37 municipalities. They're the ones who care for these 28 debuggers, they contain them. Do you know what income forecast is, how high incomes are due to the rate of debuggers? So it's going to go from 5.8 million to 12.4 million now. 6.6 million more. And you put, in addition, the forecast of increasing income for each of those debuggers. I mean, in Pontevedra, in the Praceres, another 1.6 million will be admitted. Who's gonna pay that money? The tap, the citizens and the citizens, also the families of the Barcelos school that just left; they're going to have to pay that tax raise that you're going to impose on them by that law. 1.6 million a year more must be shared between companies and Pontevedra's neighborhood. But we can also talk about Gondomar, which will increase what you have to pay $500,000. It's worth more than €300,000 more. Dena, town halls of May and Sanxenxo, more than 338,000 euros. Ares, Cabana, Fene and Mugardos, 565,000 euros more. Melide, 237... tell people this clearly, that they're going to have to pay all this money they plan to enter too much in the first year already with the application of this Galician Waters Act. So don't say there's no fiscal increase. Fourth reason for discrepancy: it's a law of extortion and coercion to the municipalities. Because in addition to these councils that I refer to here, these 37 municipalities, all the others are going to have to apply in a very short period of time an investment plan that can literally lead them to bankruptcy. In fact, they will have to devote much of these funds to the plans of Members, especially those of less than 20,000 inhabitants, but more will have to devote them, a large part, if they have to comply with this law, of their own chapter VI, of investments, to meet the obligations that you impose upon them. You, who have not fulfilled your duties, now want to make them pay all together to the Town Councils, without any forecast of investment planning, of financing for the arrivals of the waters of Galicia. Because here they were talking about funding from the municipalities... income from the Galician Waters, but they don't say how much they're going to put in all that planning that will be necessary for the Galician Waters. For example, in the local water pact, which you have already turned into wet paper, they literally buried... We're not here to talk about the local Water Pact, announced in 2013 and liquidated after 2017, it's expected that of the 52 million euros collected from Galician Waters by the water canon, 52 million euros, which at least 50% is invested in investments in the municipalities where it is collected. And that's gone. It could be a positive measure that could be introduced into a text like this, but they don't want to, they don't want to talk about it. Fifth question and I will finish: it is a text that is the fruit of taxation. You didn't want to come to a great deal of country agreement, as the ESC clearly tells you. You come here to say that I presume of the ESC's dictation, but the ESC's dictation is really critical and demolition with this law text. I have it here, I can tell you several paragraphs, read them specifically. What he says here is that planning must be done before the law. It's from a drawer. First we have to make a general planning, as provided for by the Water Law, the Greek General Supply Plan, the Greek General Sanitation Plan, which they have not done, because the Water Plan is not worth us, is absolutely out of date; and the sanitation plan is doing so now and they expect to have the diagnosis at the end of this year, the diagnosis, the phase one. So what the ESC says is that first we have to do general planning and then, in any case, the other one. Like, for example, a law, like, for example, reviewing fees. I mean, to see what planning needs to be done, what funding is going to require, how it's going to be financed, and then, in any case, legal and regulatory measures, right? But you do things backwards, start home on the roof, and so you go. Finally, Counsellor, what you want with this rule is, first of all, to blame all the municipalities, all the evils, and not to assume any responsibility on your part. Secondly, to impose, above all, an absolutely abusive rise of water prices in a context that is the worst possible, in a context like we are. Moreover, with the municipalities drowned, for example, by hiring public works, which you, by the way, did not resolve with that amendment of the Accompanying Law. We will talk about that and we will also put forward initiatives on it. Therefore, they are in time to return this law, to open a process for a large country agreement, to a matter as important as water for the future of Galicia, both for human consumption and for economic activities, and to rectify. Because you're correct, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u37	Thank you, Mr. Bará Torres. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn for the People's Party, a non-amendant group, to stand on the amendments to the whole presented. Mr. Calvo Pouso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. What's amazing is what we have to listen to sometimes in this House. What I could tell you is that it seems that we returned to the beginning, many years ago, in the early years of the Galician Parliament. At those years when the BNG was a rancio party, where the BNG was the party of the no, the party that returns to the origin, the party of the navalada, that opposes everything and gives it the same in order to bring the opposite to the group that ruled; it was the same, it was the same, because the most important was to stand against it. And we return to a politically useless Socialist Party. Which is able to say on this stage -- I thought the amendment was a mistake -- but it is able to say on this stage one thing and the opposite in just 15 minutes, and it appears reflected in the amendment itself. That's how it goes. That's how it goes. But far from sharing the arguments of the Bloc and the Socialist Party, I came here to warn of this dogmatic sectarianism that we have been without seeing and, above all, in this law. Tortiously using arguments. The worst thing is that they know it, but they use it the same way they torture us. Saying half truths or even falsehoods. But they don't care, the case is trying to confuse the opposition groups. They hardly have to be these things to get to this situation. I want to start, Counselor, thanking you for your effort, for your courage, because you didn't beg or your team, you don't hide. Because he put proposals on the table in the face of a problem. If we can contrast that with other ways of acting of the Government, for example, the Government of the State. We introduced this project, Mr Bará said, because we want to raise taxes. It is curious that the Nationalist Block in Wales will be added in these times of crisis to which taxes and costs must be reduced. We agree, Mr Bará. We agree, let's take the floor. We take his word and then we speak. But, look, we've been presenting this project because we've been working for many years, we know the real situation of the municipalities. You too, but here they are unable to recognize it. All of us who have had responsibilities in the municipalities, as mayor, for a short time have been, as Members anywhere, we know and know what the real situation of the municipalities is in supply, sanitation and purification. We are aware of technical and economic limitations. But we could do one thing, look elsewhere, because competition is not ours, competition is not ours and it seems to be a lie that an ex-Director General of Local Administration comes to try to confuse and doesn't know that what the Autonomy Statute says are another kind of works, works of the hydraulic basin, but not public works of a municipality in supply. But how can you say it and keep it here? But they never get colored? Skills are from the Town Councils, from the Town Councils. I can read it, Law 7/1985 of 2 April, regulating the bases of local regime, article 26.1.a) "In all municipalities: public lighting, cemetery, waste collection, road cleaning, household supply of drinking water and sewerage". And by the way, no. 26.2.b)di: "In municipalities with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants shall be the provincial deputy". It comes very close after the previous point we discussed. Because, of course, when I had the chance to be in the Deputy, the degree of execution of the Deputy -- and you know that because you shared that experience with me -- was eighty percent peak. Now that your boss is in the Deputy, and it's been 7 years, the degree of execution is 40%, the degree of execution is 40%. They pay EUR 900,000 of annual interest for having all the millions in the bank on current accounts. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] That's what you know that didn't exist when you and I agreed to the Deputy. However, I now believe that this article and the powers of the Member State are quite accurate. But ultimately, we have been proactive, we have been looking for solutions, we have made a policy framework, a model to guarantee the quality of services, efficiency in exploitation, Mr Bará. What can be more efficient? First, to know what the real situation on the network is. But it should not be surprising, his spokesman at Vigo asked this same month to do an audit of the situation of Vigo council, which could not be, and this is for the Socialist Party's lords, who said in their criticism that responsible consumption was not taken into account. And it says Vigo's BNG that it can't be that the streets are swept every day with drinking water. We agree. That is to take into account climate change, Madam Voice of the Socialist Group, which is the city that has the greatest capacity to make investments, because it is the largest and most budgeted one. But there is evidence of that double criterion that the Socialist Party has when it comes here to this rostrum and says something and says the opposite. Finally, we know the Greek reality. More than 1,100 million euros have been invested since 2009, and the municipalities know that there is a loss system that can reach up to 40%. That's the first thing to do and what the law says, first we have to know what's wrong with the system we have. Tell you that if you put an obligation on the municipalities to make investments, man, no! They have to do them by law, Mr Bará. And what we have to do is, first, know what the state of the networks is. Second, planning the investments, planning them, and, of course, the Galician Union will be next to the municipalities to carry them out. But you have to plan them, or do you want to start the house on the roof? You'll have to start doing it and have a network with knowledge. And in this, Mr Bará, all the mayors of the Galician Nationalist Block agree. So do those of the Socialist Party, so do they, and so do the People's Party, and so do they. They have a doubt and it is necessary to recognize it, how are we going to finance all those investments that we know are necessary? Then we can talk. Then we can sit down and see how we help the Town Councils carry them out. Because what they're afraid of is putting their needs on paper and then not being able to meet them. And I understand them, and I would like the opposition groups to be honest as well, to tell them what they were told, to tell them what their mayors were transferring, and we agreed on it. But instead of recognizing this point, what they do is they denigrate the entire law, invent lies, and invent half-truths. Well, you'll know why they do it. He was saying the Socialist Party's voice that it was the council's competence. I've told you, the law regulating local regime bases is clear, it's really clear. I don't know if you have to leave the presidency or leave anyone you want, but, man, you shouldn't doubt that way. He said, moreover, that the second one was in default forms. Ah! Of course, at the first point you say it is the competence of the Autonomous Community, and at the second point you say it attacks local autonomy, what are we left with? Either it's the competence of the Autonomous Community or if you attack local autonomy, but you can't say the two things in the same lane as an amendment, you can't say the two things in the same lane. Mrs. Rumbo, you can't really do that, say one thing and the opposite in just seven rows of a single sheet. It's really amazing, but that's the work you've done about this law. You said the municipalities take charge of two-thirds because the Deputy has to take charge of a third, the municipalities that seek to take care of themselves, that put even the investments that the municipalities had to make in danger. That's where we can talk. In fact, some amendments have been accepted, but I'm going to put the clear example of the Crown Deputy, which I know, allow me to put this one because it's the one I know. I don't know her, I know that of Coruña, where you voted 98.5% of the points that we have taken to the full, favourably with me, that's what I know, Mrs. Rumbo, 98.5. But, look, is it not necessary for Members to come to finance the works of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants? Of course, it's necessary, and it also sets the law, why do you look somewhere else? Why do you look elsewhere so eager and lying so many times? Mr. Bará said that they agreed that the water was a scarce and essential good, and there were deep differences, an interim government, that there were going to be knives, I don't know that... I'm not going to come in. No, look, we have a congress we invited them to come to, next May, but I can assure you that we didn't get to the scandal that was at Amio, that ended up kicking, that ended up punching, that ended up at the police station. [[Laughter]] Assured, you're calm. [[Applause]] Take it easy! Take it easy! Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing's going to happen. You're calm. But you say it and it began to contextualize a number of things, like they didn't take climate change into account. When we talk about taking this audit into account in the municipal services, of course we take that reduction into account or try to end these losses, which can reach 40 percent of the networks of many of the municipalities! Of course we're aware of it! And one important thing, I'm sorry, you've spent a lot of time saying that with this rule you're going to raise prices. It's roundly false. It doesn't matter how many times I say it, it doesn't matter where you say it, it's roundly false. New rates will never be introduced, they will never be reordered in those cases where municipalities want to enter this management mode, but no new rates will occur. But, look, let me see if I find him and I don't lose myself here, because I have some data that's important to you. He said it was incredible that the People's Party, in these moments of economic crisis, had risen prices, which could not be done. I suppose the correlation is that you have to lower taxes, I hope your affirmative vote in these situations, because if you can't raise taxes, you have to reduce taxes. But we're going to see where the Galician Nationalist Block governs what happens. Well, in Rianxo, they've been carrying an ordinance since 1998 with a 30-metre-cubic fixed, which is what climate change is about to encourage saving has nothing to do with it. But there's nothing going on, because in Rianxo they've been ruling for a long time and they don't worry about these things, they only worry about other places. In Tominño the supply rose 26.64% in five years, fell! 26.64% in five years, and keeps the sewer fixed. But there's nothing wrong with Tominho, which is from the Block, that doesn't matter, where they rule they can do what they want. But, and Carballo, what do you assume? And there's a representative around here too, what's going on in Carballo? So in Carballo they reorganized the bill, they changed all the concepts and so on, but in the end, how did what was paid by a neighbor? So it's a 9.2 % rise in 2020. What does the Galician Nationalist Block have to say to mayors who raise taxes, who raise taxes, and who make their neighbours pay more in this situation, Mr Bará? You talk to them? You go there and tell them the same thing you say when you get here? Or are you hiding there, and they say what they say in every place? I rather think they say what's right for them in every place, that they're able to say one thing and the contrary so that there's a fool and so that they have a sign, which is where you're comfortable, behind the sign, and they're going to stay there for many years, Mr. Bará, they're going to stay there for many years. You said it's a closed confection, it's a lie, there's no planning. Hey! But if Galicia has a lot of laws about water and there is a supply plan, and a hydrological plan of the coast, which has already finished the first and is about to see the light the second! Like there's no planning? Planning is, and knowledge by technicians from all over the province of Galicia and the city council situation is also, because they've been working hand in hand with the municipalities for many years. They've been working hand in hand with the municipalities for many years, and there's nothing of extortion to the municipalities, as you said. [[Applause]] They have to carry out an investment plan, of course! Because you have the law and that's what I told you before, the law already contemplated it before you and I would probably have dedicated ourselves to politics. What they have to do is do that audit and plan future investments, and we'll talk about how future investments are financed, but it's crucial to have that planning, because if we don't have nothing. By the way, June 2019 and 2020 has subsidised audits by many municipalities, some of the Bloc and the Socialist Party, who are really interested in solving problems, not in sterile debates, manipulated in this Parliament by some political group. You said there was no country agreement because it was imposed. Look, a law has never been or has had so many meetings with different collectives like this, never! Home!, of course, the Law of mobility of the Government of Spain, which wants to put toll on free buses or to condemn the railway in all the territories of the autonomous communities, that, of course, had nothing to do with this, Mrs. Rumbo, nothing. Nothing. [[Applause]] We'll bring her in and we'll have time to talk. Of course, if he publicly exposed all that had to be, he submitted to the claim process, there were two deadlines, one request for the Fegamp, and it expanded again. And in the parliamentary process, like all of them, meetings were held with the Fegamp, with technicians from different political parties, meetings were held with the whole world, and a lot of allegations were made, some were accepted, others were not, and now the parliamentary process begins, where you come to resound any debate and try not to have that debate. It's over, president. There was another criticism that I don't want to let go of. I don't want to let it happen because it's unfair, because it's a lie. He said the voice of the Socialist Party to invest everything in the municipalities of popular colour. It's not true, and when they told him about Vigo and the millions of euros that were invested, it's one more, is that Vigo takes as much money as 50 more municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u39	Finish it, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u40	I'm done. PSOE: Vilagarcia, 33 million; Viveiro, 8 million; Foz, 12 million; Vigo, 10 million. At the BNG: Rianxo, 14, Pontevedra, 10, 12 for the new emissary and 30 for integral sanitation; Good, the debugger with a poor operation, by the way, governs the Block and pays the neighbors the fines, Mr Bará, so they care little about you and that's why they don't want to manage Pontevedra. Tomino, Poio, all. I finish, I would really ask the voices of the parliamentary groups to think for a moment where the councils of Galicia need them. Talk to the mayors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u41	Thank you, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u42	...—end, President—to speak to the mayors and make serious proposals. That, instead of coming here to tell half the truth, we intend to be useful to Galicia, and not use the seat to make noise. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica shift for groups that have tabled amendments to the whole. The Socialist Party has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u44	Thank you, Madam President. In short, I will insist that water is an essential asset for citizenship and economic activity. A good that must be advanced in responsible consumption and effective and efficient management, for what it is necessary, Counsellor, that all administrations are involved in ensuring their supply, with safe, predictable and quality treatment, and with adequate infrastructure to store, enable, distribute and debug with proper exploitation and maintenance. So the obligation is to all administrations, also the Council of Galicia, in collaboration, with dialogue, with no unilateral impositions on those who intend to condition the action of the government of the municipalities and of the deputies. Return this project to the beginning, deal with the Town Councils, and please, Mr. Diego Calvo, don't say here again that the Town Councils don't make any serious proposals. I think it's an insult to the sovereignty of those municipalities themselves. Covenant with Members. Look, having meetings with the councils, with the deputies and with all that you've exposed here doesn't mean reaching agreements, having meetings is a procedure, getting to agreements is quite different, that's a step ahead, but you have to agree, not how you do it: doing meetings to then unilaterally put what you and your advisor consider. Develop a strategic development plan that includes the necessary works, the timing of those necessary works, the financing and study of fees and their impact on citizenship. And, look, Counsellor, in the case of funding, and as you point out even in the documentation they present in this bill, they can opt for European funds. They develop projects to opt for these funds, which are fundamental to our country's good development, they opt for them and they manage, they work and they stop being constantly criticizing the Government of the State, they work, they present projects, which will be in the best interests of all the citizenship of Greece. Look, Mr. Calvo, I'm not going to let you come here and try to lie to us. I understand you're angry because it seems that in Galicia you don't have as much power as you thought and within your party things didn't work out as you would. But, look, like us socialists, we've never lied, and we've always seen documentation backed up... they laugh at everything they want, they laugh at everything they want. [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, I'm going to leave here to the president the sentence that obliges the Galician Union to pay a fine to the European Union of four million euros. [[Laughter]] Madam President, please. It's news that says exactly the same thing. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo gives some sheets to the President.]] I'm also going to leave you the picture where you reflect the distribution of Galician waters from 2017 to 2021 of the collaboration agreements with the municipalities, with those municipalities that govern the People's Party, which have 70%; 23% of the PSdEG; 1% of the BNG and 5% of the others. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a leaflet that will then hand over to the Madam President.]] Yes, Counselor, and I'll bring another painting later. I'll leave him here, too. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a chart that will then hand over to the Madam President.]] And, look, finally, I'm going to leave you, too, because Mr. Calvo also says we lied, a financial sustainability report that, as far as I know — Conselería de Aschanda y Administración Pública, Xacobeo 2021-2022 — was presented on 11 March 2022. And so it's a report you're submitting. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows some leaflets.]] And, look, it literally says, "so the estimate of the increase in revenue related to these services -- I'm talking about sanitation, supply and debugging -- in the first vigil exercise of the new standard is EUR 14,224,032." This is your report, what you present, Counselor. So I don't lie, we came here with data. It won't silence me, it won't silence me, obviously not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, look, I'll remind you, Mr. Calvo... You're not in the use of the word, are you very angry? Are you afraid of guillotine? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, well, just stay scared. [[Applause]] I'm going to remind you, Mr. Calvo, that you come here to talk about local administration and I told you in my first exhibition, but I'm going to remind you, that article 5... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u45	Let's see, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u46	... of the Law regulating the bases of local regime establishes that the staffing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u47	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u48	...the local holdings of sufficient resources for the fulfilment of their purposes. Look, Mr Calvo, we didn't see any debate here, we saw legitimately debate on behalf of the men and women who voted for us, and we saw these men and women in this Parliament in Galicia. And neither you nor the councillor will shut us up. And when you want to have a monographic debate on what the budget execution is about, and then we'll probably have some shade that you don't use because it's not appropriate for you. For my own sake, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Pause.]] A person from the House cleaning services proceeds to disinfect the floor.) It is now the turn of the other amending group, the Galician Nationalist Block. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u50	Mr. Diego Calvo, you've spoken here about razors. I don't think you're most likely to talk about knives and knives; I'm told that the orders in Taramundi have increased in recent weeks, I don't know if I'm from the People's Party of the Crown or Ourense, but at last the market is shot. [[Applause]] I'm really glad that they're coming to Pontevedra to hold their congress. This, as Mr Domínguez said the other day, will be a repulsive to the local economy, we know that you are good consumers and consumers of the local hospitality trade, but what I hope is that the water does not reach the river, or, sorry, the blood does not reach the river. The Lérez River is a clean, sanitated river, thanks to the municipal government policy. Thanks to the investments in Feder funds, which in this case did indeed make the Town Hall, which is also a model municipality in relation to the management of water supply, with losses that were reduced to 3.6% in the distribution network. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Losses of 3.6%, 12.5% of the total water caught, this is a mirror to look at, Pontevedra, in case they want to take it into account. Yes, if those days go by, we can talk about these things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, you're proposing this law to 2023 to reduce losses to 20%, and Pontevedra is 3.6%. But besides, they're, I tell you, they're a pure contradiction, they're disillusioned. The circular economy strategy envisages this target by 2030. The Environment Council envisages this goal by 2030 in the strategy of circular economy and waters of Galicia, by this law, and hence the Union, by 2023, and then wood, fines. So, agree, we're just asking for that. Look, the competition, and what are you, what's going on? Do you want to ask here for failure to comply with the Water Law? It is that the Water Law clearly states — Article 26 — "competence of the hydraulic administration of the Autonomous Community". The Water Administration, Galician Waters, which has competence, between us, to do the planning. The general plans, the general plan of sanitation is not done, that's the cementation of the house, without which there can be nothing else, and you haven't done it since 2010. That's the responsibility of the People's Party's Union Government, and they don't blame anyone because it's their responsibility. With regard to the question of financing, of course, making this general plan is fundamental to defining the necessary funding, and how it will be addressed, in which time limits too, and not drowning the councils in this adverse context, with a great deal of work. Besides, in a very short time, because you don't just say you have to do these performances, up to nine different programs that have to do the municipalities, but you have to do it within a very limited period of time. That's extortion and coercion and asphyxiation of the municipal buildings. And it will give rise, this law, to a great conflict in its application with local entities, and also, by urban agglomerations, by deputies. And we're not talking here about another chapter that would deserve a specific treatment, which is the communities, the neighboring betrayals, which will also shake off the amount of investments that they have to make as a result of this law. Because you speak in Article 1 of a regulatory development of the supply of water, but they will already apply to tax subsidies that are actually planned for tax purposes. In fact, tax subsidies that are planned and are white and in bottle, water. So you're here, you're saying here that you're going to increase the revenue from Galician waters, where is this going to come from? And then I said one by one where this money is going to come out, county council. So they're going to make it pay to companies and people of these municipalities. In the case of the greening rate, 6.6 million euros more will be paid by companies and the proximity of these 37 municipalities. And give them the amounts you expect from each of the municipalities, or what, who's going to pay for this? It's reality. Look, to finish, it's clear that you've thrown forward, you didn't want to negotiate, you didn't want to come to a country agreement to listen to all sides, as you said specifically, by the way, the ESC, they told you that this matter should be the subject of a great deal of agreement with the participation of all institutions, of all entities. You speak of the whole water cycle, and we are the only cycle we see is the end of the People's Party cycle. We're in an epilogue, you're an epigon, and you open a period of... yes, by hand, Mr. Diego Calvo is asking permission to sit in the blue banks... we enter, in addition, as if you're already seeing, in a period of instability, with internal wars by power, a period of decay and decline that joins this 13-year failure in the management of the water cycle. [[Applause]] But don't worry because here's the BNG with an alternative project, with a future project, with a project to think about the country big, to think about water management as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Stay calm because the BNG will be able to stand up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u51	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Bará. Do you want to make use, Counselor, of the turn of the word? No, no, no, no. We therefore vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to this draft comprehensive water cycle improvement law. We started with the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, of the Water Cycle Improvement Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39 The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u52	We are now voting on the amendment to the whole tabled by the Nationalist Block of Wales. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, of the Water Cycle Improvement Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u53	Rejected by amendments to this bill as a whole, the parliamentary procedure continues. Now we're moving to point 3, appearances. Comparison of Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser, on his own request, to report on the Strategy for Intelligent Specialization — RIS3 — from Galicia to 2027
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u54	Mr. Count López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u55	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to all and to all. I compare today in this chamber to expose to you the general lines of the Strategy of Smart Specialization, RIS3, until 2027, a key document in the future development of innovative Galicia and which has already been forwarded to the European commission for approval after being discussed with the entire Greek R & D+i ecosystem. As you know, it is the frame of reference in which all autonomic instruments of support for R & D+i will be articulate over the next five years, just like the previous planning, which the Galician Union has developed for the period 2014-2020 and which we also present in this Parliament. Why is this strategy important? Just because we're providing ourselves with a roadmap that fully identifies where the priorities and objectives of innovation policies are in Galicia towards the next decade, at a time when there are no improvisations. And, above all, because it is our credibility in Europe to access Community funds. That is why we continue, ladies and gentlemen, in the task of identifying, by the hand of the entire Greek system of R & D+i, the areas of technological specialization and knowledge that allow the generation of increasingly competitive activities and generators of wealth, employment and well-being. In this strategy you are defining Galicia for the future, a more modern, more digital and more talented Galicia; ultimately, a Galicia that looks for new opportunities to continue to grow. But the difference with the previous framework 2014-2020, this new strategy that we bring to this House today is growing in both goals and resources, not only because of the conviction of the importance of innovation policy, but also because of the demands of the context of economic and social transformation that we are living in. A new strategy that starts us making a firm commitment to R & D+i, combining public and private initiative with the capabilities of our entire innovation and research ecosystem. The new RIS3 is set up in a scenario marked by European priorities, which are also Galicia's priorities. Two, in particular, which I would like to highlight: the European Green Pact and the European Digital Strategy, with which the Greek strategy is fully aligned. But also at a time when Europe and Spain, in particular, go through a complex economic scenario, aggravated by the war in Ukraine, increasing the urgency of completing the energy and digital transition. They are important challenges, they are capital challenges, and that requires redouble efforts — as I said — by aligning priorities and targets between the public sector and private initiative, including all the agents of the Greek system of R+D+i, as we are doing. One of the main developments in this strategy will therefore be the increase in public funds that will be dedicated in Galicia to research, development and innovation towards the coming years. In particular, the new RIS3 smart strategy provides for a public-private investment of about €5,000 million, in particular 4,988 million in public-private investment, of which €2,987 million comes from public funds, i.e. 6 out of 10 euros. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that 157 % more funds than in the previous budget framework 2014-2020, in which an investment of more than EUR 1.9 billion has been achieved, precisely to address the major challenges that we have ahead, such as double economic and digital transformation. A budget increase more than justified because in Galicia we are aware of the transformer power that has science and technology. From this perspective, another of the new features is the work priorities identified in the participatory process open to the sector. These three priorities will focus on sustainability as a differential axis for previous R & D+i policies; digitization as a facilitating element for the economic and social transformation of Galicia; and for people, through research and innovation aimed at addressing the challenges of Galician society. We want Galicia to be a field of evidence to apply new scientific-technological solutions to needs that have to do with, for example, demographic evolution and active aging, health, food, depopulation or territorial cohesion. On the other hand, the new Strategy of Intelligent Specialization will also have as a task the strengthening of the Greek R & D+i ecosystem, to work in a more integrated way, to seek and value the excellent research done in Galicia, bringing knowledge centres closer to companies, capturing and retaining more talent, paying particular attention to the gender perspective to promote women's equal opportunities in the field of research and innovation, and also positioning Galicia as a reference to state and European level. Ladies and gentlemen, trends at European level show that the scientific and technological fields that are concentrating more on R & D+i are those that have to do with specialization in energy and ICT. In addition, the advances made to industry and those related to health are also outstanding. All these areas match the specialization profile that Galicia is opting for in both the previous RIS3 and the current one we are presenting to this House today. A Galicia which specializes, for example, in the technological modernization of its traditional sectors, in the development of scientific-technological and innovation solutions to advance in the decarbonization of value chains and in the sustainability of natural and heritage resources. And in products and services for healthy life, which can convert Galicia into a referent in southern Europe by applying R & D+i to areas such as active aging, therapeutic application of water and marine resources, as well as functional nutrition. There is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a vision: to achieve a sustainable and digital Galicia; and there is a mission: to pool all the assets and capabilities of the Greek system of R & D+i. And the two, vision and mission, are united by the motor of this strategy that people are. As I have said before, I must say that for the development of this strategy, as we have done with the previous RIS3, it has been key to the collaboration of all the agents that make up the research and innovation ecosystem in Galicia. From here I want to reiterate our gratitude, because in this case the individual work of every agent does not add up but multiplies. I'm referring to a total of 800 participants, including 500 cooperating Greek companies, along with the Galician technological knowledge centres and all the people in general who were part of the 27 work tables called and who responded to 175 interviews. At all times we are looking for a climate of dialogue with the whole sector, which met our call and actively participated in the two forums we convened during the process of drafting this document. Just as we have to thank the approaches made by the Galician Economic and Social Council, where we had the opportunity to present the same. But if there is a differential quality of this strategy of intelligent specialization with respect to the previous one, as far as the participatory process is concerned, we also collect 300 approaches through different outreach meetings that we make on the street to incorporate the impressions of citizenship. Maybe a more conscious citizenry after the pandemic of the role of R+D+i in its day-to-day life. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, we're talking about a multi-strategy, because we're actually facing a multilevel strategy, because it's interconnected and must be consistent with state and European priorities and strategies, essentially the state's smart specialisation strategy. A multi-founded strategy because it uses complementary autonomous, state and European public resources, to which it is essential to continue to add the commitment of the private sector. And also multi-competence, because it's transversal to the different sectors and also to the different departments of the Galician Union. As you know, for this reason we constituted an interdepartmental commission of R+D+i, where they come together and all the policies of R+D+i that are being developed by the Galician Union are planned. It's been active for over a year and 18 work meetings have already been convened. This is one of the new features of this new document, because for the first time the policy of R+D+i is cross-sectional to the whole of the departments of the Galician Union. They know there are five advisories that directly develop the policy of R & D: Health, Education, the Sea, the Rural Environment and the Second Vice-Presidentship and the Economic, Business and Innovation Council. And the rest are going to run some kind of innovation action in this period, given that it is a fundamental element in the provision of more efficient public services. In this context, the role of this interdepartmental commission will be key in ensuring the coordination of all departments of the Autonomic Administration and thus ensuring the execution of all actions, monitoring and evaluation of the impact of R & D+i policies; that is, to ensure consistency and efficiency at all times. The new Strategy of Smart Specialization is, therefore, conceived as a cross-sectional and integrative strategy to strengthen and complement the value chains of our strategic sectors and boost their circularity. All of this with an important component of hybridization of knowledge, technologies and expertise. The objectives, therefore, are clear and it is about moving forward towards an increasingly knowledge-based economic model and innovation to ensure in this way the competitiveness of our productive fabric, producing with greater added value, and also ensuring the greatest well-being of people. To do this, we need to reach the entire productive fabric in order to promote the alignment of R & D+i made in Galicia with the needs of the market and our companies, increase the number of innovative companies and their collaboration with knowledge centres, complete the value chains and finally attract public-private investment that complements Galicia's resources. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the importance of public-private collaboration, because, as it has been expressed during the process of dialogue with the sector, the weight of the objectives collected at RIS3 cannot depend solely on the resources provided by the Public Administration, it does not happen anywhere in the world. Private resources are needed from companies and other private organizations in Galicia that are dedicated to R & D and innovation. That's why our call and commitment from the private sector around the R & D+i in Galicia, since it's one of our major challenges to continue to deepen. The same way we also believe it is essential to scale the different instruments of access to finance in the autonomous, state and European sectors. Together must give priority not only to the matter of intelligent specialization, but also to the objectives and collectives. And at this stage we're going to work to return to Galicia more European and state funds. The aim is to ensure that those agents who can compete in Spain and Europe access this funding. And that the autonomous administration is focused on giving priority to small and medium-sized enterprises, helping them to gain size and competitiveness also through R & D+i. All our efforts must be directed above all to break the glass ceiling for small and medium-sized companies in traditional sectors still far from R & D+i. It's to sow today to pick up tomorrow. The economic fabric and the R+D+i system must work perfectly connected, making effective an essential element within innovation policy such as knowledge transfer. We have to systematize the current degree of collaboration, which is already high by itself, between companies and knowledge centers of R & D+i systems, because it is precisely one of our strengths, with values higher than the state average. In the year 2021 we position ourselves as the fourth autonomous community in innovation in the issue of collaboration. Consequently, small and medium-sized enterprises acquire an important weight in the focus of this new Smart Specialization Strategy 2021-2027; or, to be more precise, small and medium-sized enterprises are at the focus of RIS3. It's a challenge, as I say, to involve and extend a greater number of companies to R & D and innovation. In Galicia, as you know, only 20.3% of companies with 10 or more employees are innovative. It's a figure that we aspired to triple in the year 2027; that is, 6 out of every 10 companies with a minimum of 10 employees can be innovative in the year 2027. And this is where hidden innovators also come into play, which must be brought to light, that is, companies of all sizes with interest and willingness to innovate that are still in very preliminary stages. Ladies and gentlemen, another of the news of this new Strategy of Smart Specialization is at the impetus of the missions. Missions, as a formula for addressing the major projects that will be carried out within the framework of this strategy, projects with transformation power. Missions aim to focus resources and capabilities around that big project to ensure its impact and to achieve, as I said, a tractor effect. Therefore, in this new strategy of intelligent specialization, they articulate through value chains, jointly incorporating tractor companies, small and medium-sized companies and knowledge system agents. In particular, it is planned to be between 4 and 6 missions, which will be profiled with innovation ecosystem agents, and will be financed by Feder funds through two calls. An example of a possible mission, to try to transfer the concept, is how we can fund through some of these calls for projects linked to the stay of the senior dependents in their homes. That would mean being able to align ICT-assisted technological solutions, constructive medical solutions from the point of view of domotics, etc. Finally, we are applying the same way of prioritizing and guiding the specialisation that is being promoted by the European Commission itself and that is moving us into the document that we are developing through the Strategy of Smart Specialization. A European Commission which will also launch five missions within the Horizon Europe programme, to achieve objectives such as adaptation to climate change, cancer research, ocean restoration, smart cities or a pact on soil in Europe. All this effort, ladies and gentlemen, must help us keep Galicia on the road marked with this new planning and thus reach a very concrete goal: to push the Galician brand from the scope of R & D+i to capture new investments and to position ourselves as a reference in Spain and the whole of Europe. And for that we have to work to get as much participation as possible from companies, knowledge-generating agents and administrations, both in the super-regions and collaboration contours for R & D+i. We are talking about European programmes, technological platforms that ultimately serve to showcase our collective work on research and innovation. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has made a very important effort through the Strategy of Smart Specialization. It's obvious we haven't left zero and we have experience, and we've already gone several stages of this path. So it's been demonstrated by the productive tissue and our knowledge centers. In the 2014-2020 balance sheet, investment in Galicia in R & D grew by 34.4%, more than 10 points above the national average, achieving its highest level in Galicia, reaching EUR 641.7 million. During this period, the Galician Union granted 6,700 aids, which mobilised more than 1,900 million euros of public-private investment, 76% in projects aimed at creating a sustainable industrial model for competitiveness and knowledge. And, ladies and gentlemen, we tripled the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency, which since 2014 has gone from having an budget of 56 million euros to 152 million euros in this exercise, an unprecedented effort in innovation. And in this context, as I told you, innovation has grown in Galicia almost double the rate of the Spanish average since 2014. A collective effort, as I said, on the part of all agents of our ecosystem. It is true that we continue to be a moderately innovative region, but the achievements must encourage us to continue along this path. We're proud of the fact in Galicia, we're proud of the Greek innovation ecosystem and we're still working with the same humility and common sense before all that's coming. In this sense, as regards the period 2022-2027, the new strategy of smart specialization defines public-private investment for the whole budgetary framework. And also, according to autonomic regulations, we'll have two planning periods. The first period, 2022-2024, envisages about 1,600 million euros of budget to develop 5 programs with the following objectives, reflected in the Strategy of Smart Specialization: The first is the Complete and Transfer Program, which aims to boost the implementation of transformer and impact projects through collaboration and public-private transfer. As a second program, the Integrated Programme will consolidate an advanced R & D+i offer, capable of responding to the challenges of digitization and sustainability. Turning Galicia into a favourable environment for the attraction and retention of talent, with particular attention to the role of women and the promotion of STEM vocations among younger girls, is the third objective marked by RIS3. As you know, we currently have the largest number of researchers employed in R & D+i activities, 17,664 of which - 41% - are women. We also seek to increase the number of innovative companies through the Innovation and Enterprise Program, to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to incorporate innovation into the different stages of their productive process from their own projects or collaborative projects. And the fifth programme focuses on taking advantage of Galicia's brand in R+D+i and promoting greater collaboration and Greek presence at national and European level. Ladies and gentlemen, I had previously said that the complex scenario we are living in increases the urgency of completing the energy and digital transition that we have already referred to. This is because there may be the response to the progressive rise in energy prices that Spain has been suffering for a long time, with the resulting impact on inflation. What we understand in Galicia as a fair and orderly energy transition right now means maintaining the current energy mix to meet conjunctural needs, but it also means gradually adjusting that energy mix with the incorporation of new technologies like green hydrogen, the circular economy, biogas, energy storage and marine wind. In Galicia we understand this transition as a fundamental test in which we must go through new stages every day until we reach goals together all the Greeks and the Greeks. But do it, ladies and gentlemen, in a planned, orderly way and with all environmental guarantees. In Galicia we neither understand nor accept the concept of energy transition of the Government of Spain, which seems to be in an endless 100-metre smooth race where the only thing that matters is running without looking back, and how they are leaving families, pemes and autonomouss without any alternative. That precipitation, that lack of vision, is what explains why we actually find ourselves more in a race of obstacles where the Government has already committed more than one null exit. And, ladies and gentlemen, to go more straight, to go the right way towards that fair and orderly energy transition, we need to have all the technological solutions we've been talking about. It means, therefore, to wager, in this energy transition, for technological solutions that would not be possible without incorporating R+D+i, for it is ultimately what will provide us with the tools needed to improve production processes, to find new ways to produce and to meet challenges of as much technological necessity as the ecological transition itself. To finish. This appearance therefore responds to the need to involve this Parliament in the work that we have done since the Galician Union over these months in the hands of all the agents that make up the Greek R & D+i ecosystem, to address this new context. Finally, we bring to this House the map of Galicia's R & D+i from the future. And we'd like to count on the arrivals of parliamentary groups as well. The German Government, ladies and gentlemen, continues to do its duty and will continue to fulfil its responsibilities. And just as we consider it necessary to anticipate the Government with a plan of measures to relieve burdens to many families and productive sectors affected by the current context of the crisis, we also see in this new strategy of intelligent specialization a further proof that Galicia does not get crossed by arms in the difficult scenario that we are living in. Our RIS3 comes to tell us that any investment we make for the deployment of the digital and ecological transition will have greater scope if it is directed towards intangible assets such as research, innovation, talent and training. Well, this is the spirit of this new stage, to put as many public and private resources as possible at the service of knowledge, talent and R & D+i, to build a more sustainable, digital and innovative Galicia; Galicia than all the Greeks and the Greeks we want. We hope, in this sense, ladies and gentlemen, to have the involvement of all parliamentary groups in this House to achieve this objective and to come out strengthened from the difficult context that we are living in. Today we have a good opportunity to prove that at the most difficult times we know how to work as a team. It's not about running to get to the first one, it's about walking to get to the target together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u56	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We start with the turn of parliamentary groups. Firstly, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, second vice president. The smart specialization of Galicia -- RIS3 -- is Galicia's global strategy to improve competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable and quality employment through innovation, as you have just explained. In November 2013, the Board of Directors approved RIS3 Galicia 2014-2020 as an integral innovation strategy of Galicia that established the investment priorities in R & D+i of the Galician Board for that period. This roadmap of our community's innovation policies has been the result of the European Commission's demand that all European regions define their R & D+i spending priorities for this period. The RIS3 of Galicia 2021-2027, in addition to being a requirement for access to European structural funds, will be the integral strategy for articulating all actions of Galicia's R & D+i, according to the Government of Greece. It will also have to incorporate the major objectives of the European Union 2021-2027: a new industrial policy marked by sustainability, the European Green Pact and the digital transformation. The major objectives of RIS3 in Galicia 2021-2027, through the specialization in R+D+i, are to evolve the production model, to gain competitiveness and to increase substantially over time, to generate quality employment and to contribute to responding to the great challenges and needs of society. Well, let's hope all these goals are met, Mr. Second Vice President, because the theory looks good on paper, it looks very good, but then we have to put it into practice, we have to make it happen. Which is not done by his government, as it happened, by setting an example, with the Strategy of Smart Specialization of Galicia 2014-2020, where one of the goals that Mr. Feijóo's Executive had was to achieve at least 1.7% in R+D+i. This goal was unachievable and will continue to be unachievable as it no longer invests in R+D+i and then runs that budget. Budgets must be run at R+D+i. Last year the Galician Union only executed 55% of the 561A programme, on the Greek Research, Development and Technological Innovation Plan, not running the budgets again another year, leaving 45% of the unexecuted budget, with 80 million euros. In 2020 they were left without running 30 million in the same program, and the German Government in the previous legislation left without running 86 million euros in R+D+i in the same program 561A. In total, 196 million not running on R+D+i. Let's remember that in Galicia the games dedicated to research and development were the worst-run field for the period 2014-2020, in which it only appears that 31% of Galicia's 213 million were executed, making the European Union a warning to the Galician Union. It is necessary to increase the pace of spending execution and increase the dynamisation of private investment that combines public aid and research, development and innovation projects. This was the warning you gave to the European Union. I would also like to make a fincapé in the European Commission's latest regional innovation report, dating back to 2021, in which Galicia two years ago held the 19th position and now ranks 156 out of 240 regions. However, despite the improvement in some indicators, R & D spending in the public and private sectors is still going to worsen not only compared to 2019 but still far from the European average. The Galician community has already set off in 2019 from a bad investment situation in research and development and two years later its score worsened. Public R & D expenditure is now 64% of the European Union average, while business disbursement is only 32%, which leads Galicia to 68 behind the total of 240 European regions. And this is one of the main differences with northern Portugal. In private investment in R & D, Portuguese nearly doubled the score given by the European Commission to Galicia, and they also exceed our research expenditure. Galicia is located in the group of moderate innovation regions, but at low level, according to the European Commission. Compared to the rest of Spain, he occupies the eighth position in the ranking, far behind the regions classified in the strong category, such as the Basque Country or Madrid, so it seems clear that the German Government has much to improve to place Galicia as a reference. If anything has highlighted the crisis of coward-19 is the importance of betting on research and innovation. Research and innovation have the capacity to respond to the great challenges and problems of the world in which we live. Galicia must bet firmly on science and innovation as a strategic value and lose both well-being and growth. It's about increasing the public investment needed in both science and innovation. This is a minimum objective that we have to consensualize among all economic, social and political agents, also converging in the distribution of R & D investment between the public and private sectors. The Socialist Parliamentary Group demands that the Galician Union increase the percentage of investment in R & D+i, in order to increase from the current 0.98% to 1.5% of gross domestic product in the next two budgets. The European Union's investment in R & D+i is 2.18 %, Galicia is very far from that 2.18%. Internal expenditure in R & D per capita in Galicia is set at 2021 in 232 euros, compared to 328 of the Spanish average, according to the data published last December by the National Institute of Statistics. The communities with higher expenditure on internal R & D activities per inhabitant were the Basque Country, with 684 euros, the Madrid Community, with 607 euros, and the Navarre Foral Community, with 540. The Galician Union must strengthen public policies for the transfer of knowledge and business innovation, with special attention to pemes. The existence of three universities, six technological centres, research centers, clusters, is a good starting point for the companies in Greece to benefit from their research through technology transfer agreements and collaborative projects. Even though in recent years these public-private relationships have been favored, the truth is, we are still far from achieving levels that place us as referents. Only a very small part of that knowledge, generated at universities or technological centers, becomes part of companies. And, above all, from small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to refer to the programme of boosting innovation in the demands of its government, which has an budget of 12 million to benefit 15,000 pemes of our community. Well, this budget is not enough to boost innovation in pears, because spending on innovation is increasingly concentrated on large businesses in Galicia. 43% of R & D is in 42 companies with more than 250 employees. Today, small and medium-sized enterprises must walk from the hand of innovation to be able to compete -- so we hope to agree -- and the duty of the autonomous administration is to help make this goal a reality. Its government has to increase the program's budget to boost innovation in the pemes of our community, and strengthen public policies for the transfer of knowledge and business innovation, with reference and attention to pemes. After three legislates of this People's Party government, they had more than enough time to realize the economic and social error they are supposed not to bet on the R & D+i. Mr. Vice President, don't make that mistake again in this legislation, bet on R & D+i, bet on retaining talent, because you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u59	...I said on several occasions — if I'm finished now — that one of the goals was to receive talents. Well, the escape of talent in Galicia costs you 300 million in the year. And that's not what I'm saying, the economists say, which is, if the escape of talent costs Galicia 300 million, because we don't retain many talents. I encourage you to pursue that goal, to fulfill that goal of retention of talents. Knowledge and innovation — already mentioned — are essential for maintaining and improving social well-being and economic growth. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. We welcome the students, in this case the fifth primary of CEIF Plurilingue Barcelos Square in Pontevedra. They used to be their sixth companions and now their fifth. Welcome to Parliament. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We're still around parliamentary groups. In this case, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, and welcome the students and students of the college of Pontevedra. I also lived on that square for the four years I lived in town when I studied the career, so it also brings me good memories. Welcome to the Vice President and Counsellor, too. I listened to him and I said: half an hour talking not to say anything, not to say anything. And I'm going to try to focus on three issues that have to do with the shape, background and horizon of the RIS3, this strategy of Galicia's intelligent specialization. I'm going to focus on documents, because, of course, we have here is basically a good part of the alleged assessment file. [[Mr Rodil Fernández shows a document.]] Then we'll talk about it, but a quick view, an executive summary. We, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, contacted Gain last week to try to access the full document, I want to think that this is what the European Commission has, I want to think that it will have something more than this executive summary. I've been calling again now from the parliamentary group staff to see if we had been wrong and stayed there... I don't know. They didn't send anything, and they also told us that the Council had sent them and they hadn't sent them anything. I really hope that the European Commission will have something more than these executive summary sheets. I insist that the intervention is central to three questions that have to do with form, background and horizon. The form, I'm starting around, is missing the final evaluation. The only thing we have is the mid-term evaluation, which ends in 2018, and the complete document, I insist, which has not been published, and the only thing we have access to is this executive summary in quick view. It's a much more divergent document than planning. And I've already, after taking a lot of turns, of reviewing it a lot, I say, here all that has been done was trying to cover the file, because, as everybody knows -- I want to think that in this House too -- to make a document of these characteristics, to develop a RIS3, it's a sine qua non condition for them to unlock the Community funds. So, the impression that this document gives to BNG, reading it, is that basically what they're trying to do is to cover the file so there's no problem with access to Community funds. I insist that, in addition to covering the file, you go mechanically and with the autopilot. And I say this because in your intervention you cited some planning instruments in the European Union, but there is absolutely nothing in the document, there is no reference, for example, to the Next Generation, there is no reference to the 2021-2027 horizon. You quoted the European Green Pact, but there's no mention either of the Digital Europe programme. Apart from that, there's no reflection, no minimal reflection. Now, if you put this document to me five years ago on the table, it was worth it perfectly, but in the midst of the profound transformation that you are living in this country, these transformations, in addition, accelerated by the pandemic of coward-19, you read this and you say: these people are extraterrestrial, they are completely abstract from reality, and they are not preparing a planning document, which must face the three major transformations -- so we see them from the BNG -- that there are going on, that they are technology-digital, energy-climatic and, above all, social and health. It is also not to be evaluated by the 2020 Galician Plan, which has expired, as you can see, for two years. And anyone here should at least draw attention to how you can design a strategy of specialization without taking all these factors into account. The conclusion we've come to since BNG is that there's no project, there's no comprehensive vision, and, of course, and most importantly, after listening to it, it's almost clearer to me even though there's no real willingness to do it, not in words or pure rhetoric, but in real terms, with instruments of political planning, to make knowledge, innovation, R & D+i, a bundle of economic development, but also social, cultural and human development. And then we get in the back. It's totally lame, and it doesn't fix the evasives detected in the previous one. And I refer to the mid-term assessment, not at the end, because it has not been published, to the mid-term evaluation of the previous RIS3, which warns you in your report of evasa, of handicaps, of errors that it was necessary to correct but that you are not introducing correction factors or elements or policies in this new one. It's just focused on business innovation, they completely forget, but completely, because it's absolutely absent throughout the document, science and research. And most importantly, people who research and produce knowledge, human resources that exist, are many, very valuable, very good, but they need a lot more help than they get from the Greek Government. I say it doesn't correct the eurea detected in the mid-term assessment because you were now talking about tripleting, that the new goal for the period 2021-2027 is to triple the number of innovative companies, but what tells us about the evaluation of the Board itself, its data — those of Gain, not those of the Block — is that, despite the increase in spending or business investment in innovation, what we see is a reduction in the number of innovative companies, which fall by 14%. What does that mean? That innovation is being concentrated on companies that are already the basis of innovative technology in origin, especially large companies in the automotive sector. Everyone has in mind the name, in the case of Stellantis, or in the case of the textile sector, the case of Indidex, but it's not coming, that this is the goal that the Government should pursue already in the previous RIS3, not in this new one, but in the previous one, is not reaching that innovation to the small and medium-sized company and, above all, to the micro-enterprise, which is the most common, the most abundant in the economic and productive fabric of our country. Mrs. Gallego said in her speech that it was not met with the objective that you were marking for the previous period in terms of R & D+i investment. We're far from that 1.7% of GDP, we're at 0.97% of the latest data we have, but in none of the other indicators, outputs in this case, they've met the goal that you marked, but they've made it back to the country itself. I'll give you the example of those innovative companies. In 2014 we had 997, the value reached in 2017 is 853, i.e. we lost innovative companies, and the goal you achieved or pursued by 2020 was 1,147. I insist, it's not that we won't achieve the goal, that we are in worse position today than we had when the previous RIS3 was developed. [[Applause]] Then, something, something doesn't work. And Gain himself and the Council itself, in the evaluation papers, recognize that. Now, you don't care, so we're still an automatic pilot, here's nothing, and I'm still going the same way because I'm going against the highway, but I'm going well, the ones going wrong are the ones in front, it's crazy. The same is true of the number of patents. The target was to reach 153 by 2020, starting from an initial value of 146. Well, a modest goal, but that's what was achieved in the mid-term evaluation is 77 patents. I mean, we've developed a five-year public policy with community funds to achieve... well, we're going up to the few positions, and what we're doing is going back into positions when everyone is moving on, and that's even worse for the country. You are, and I say so of course, making it lose opportunities, making it lose opportunities at a crucial time in this country. [[Applause]] And there we go on the horizon, with the proposals we want to bring today from BNG, because this is a matter of country. If we all get out of here and all with the idea that this must be a central element of public policy, regardless of who is in government, I almost give myself a corner of my teeth. Structural proposals, which is also one of the elements that in its mid-term evaluation also detects the RIS3 evaluation mechanism itself. What's the direct help line? Yes, but we need to lay the foundations for a comprehensive policy that will enable us to generate structures that make more effective and efficient use of these policies, let us say, of direct incentives. First, constant and stable funding. You said that starting in 2014 it is beginning to constantly increase public investment in R+D+i, after cutting what is not written between 2012 and 2014, and we are still suffering the consequences of its budget cut. We make what we say -- we say it in every budgetary debate and I turn my hand back now -- is a great pact for science, transforming the constant and stable public investment into an agreement of all political forces, to reach that horizon of 2% of the gross domestic product, but indeed, not as pure rhetoric. Galicia is still today one of the 25 percent of Europe's least innovative regions, and this is also a result of the policy of cuts and instability of the R & D+i financing system in our country. Financing for projects, but above all, the most important: basic funding, not only directed to excellence, but to the whole generation of knowledge and making a lot of emphasis on science, basic R & D+i. Not everything has to have an impact, a reversal, an immediate application and an immediate economic performance. To gain excellence we need to have a good base, a good quarry, so that that excellent talent emerges. And finally, people. You said: retention and talent capture. All right, we really design all the stages of the research career, because the consolidation and stabilization phase in this country today does not exist, and we depend on the European calls and state calls, of what the Government of Spain is doing, which could also be applied a little bit, with what it is doing in the reform of the State Science Act. Research career for both personal investigator and technologist, based on three ideas, on three errors, is allowed to recruit, recruit or attract, retain, and, above all, return, repatriate talent that has gone away. What differentiates a policy of R+D+I that aims to retain and capture another's talent, that is what we have today, that is not, and that there are no ways of returning to that population, for that personal investigator who leaves because he has to leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u63	... to be trained, to gain knowledge and experience, we have the need and obligation — if allowed to me — almost morale to bring back all this talent with public policies that, in addition, have European funding, because the European Union, as you well know, finances mobility. We are losing public investment capacity and European funds due to the lack of that research career and, above all, the consolidation stage. Finished, President, simply with a reference. He said we have to be proud. All pride, all pride in the BNG, all the pride of Galicia's innovative R & D+i research system, too, but pride itself doesn't make the system more competitive, it doesn't make small and medium-sized businesses in our country more competitive. That's why it's enough rhetoric and we've got them hand in hand for that funding that we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u65	...it stands at 2% of GDP, for this research career with a stabilisation and consolidation stage and also to create specialized programs aimed at weaving synergies between...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u67	...and traditional tractor sectors -- the automobile, the textile, the naval -- but also others that are of enormous potential for Galician development -- the biotechnology...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u69	... eco-innovation or digitization. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u71	Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u72	Thank you. Thank you, President. Good day to all. Well, it turns out, Counsellor, that the problem is that you don't bring here, this Parliament, a RIS3 from the country, you know? That's what BNG claims, like the bread of the country. It's not from the country because you didn't talk about BNG, which is what you had to do to bring a strategy of smart specialization from the country. And you were afraid to deal with the Greek Strategy with the 500 companies in the sector. You dared to create 27 work tables with innovation specialists in Galicia. And you've had the nerve to talk to 175 Greek innovation professionals. But this isn't a country's RIS3, it's just you didn't talk to BNG. And, therefore, it's not worth anything. Look, it turns out that you put here a plan to invest, up to 2027, 5 billion euros in R & D+i, of which 3 billion euros will be public and 2,000 dollars private initiative, but you don't understand the country, nor did you talk to the country, because the country is them. Well, it turns out that we increased investment in R+D+i in the 2014-2020 period to 157 percent, but those who come to teach us lessons about what to do in innovation are those who have never done anything about innovation. That's the reality of the Galician Nationalist Block. It turns out the balance of the year 2014-2020 is that we increased the funds by 34%, more than 10 points than the Spanish average, but we didn't do anything, everything BNG did. The board gave 6,700 aids, which mobilized 1,9 billion euros, but it turns out we haven't done anything, because everything was done by the BNG. It turns out we tripled the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency from 2014 to this year 2022, but we didn't do anything. More, we tripled the budget, which went from 56 million euros to 152, with a standing vote against the Nationalist Block of Galicia, but we haven't done anything, because those who really know about innovation are the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We currently have the largest number of researchers and employees in the activities of R+D+i in Galicia, the history of Galicia, more than when you ruled, but it turns out we don't know anything and those who really know about innovation are the masters of the Galician Nationalist Block. Congratulations, congratulations. Today, the request is made by the second Vice-President of the Galician Council and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor. It looks like an approach to a strategy agreed with the Greek society, agreed with the sector to which it is headed. A strategy of intelligent specialization or, what's the same, the roadmap for the future of Galician innovation until 2027. Ladies and gentlemen, today's intervention by the vice president is the best example of a government that doesn't stop, a government that has just done a lot for innovation -- bad despite the BNG -- and a government that has a clear understanding of what it wants to do for the next few years, until the year 2027. But you know what to do? Not because we're smarter than anyone. Because we listen to the sector, because we created an interdepartmental commission at the Galician Summit, because innovation is not just a matter of the second Vice-Presidentship, it's a question on which the entire Government works. I know you don't know what that is, because when they were ruling at the board, they were opposed to each other's advice. Besides, they were from the same party, they were also opposed. Don't laugh at the Socialist Party's lords, that's the reality. I think that when we do reasonable things and walk in the right direction, it bothers you. You don't oppose the People's Party, you don't oppose the Council of Galicia, you oppose Galicia. Because criticizing the innovation policy of recent years in our community is not only criticizing the Galician People's Party, it's not just criticizing the Galician Union, it's criticizing all the professionals in the innovation ecosystem of our community. The figures in the last decade speak for themselves and, of course, we're going to keep working, they like it or they don't like it, in the direction it's agreed. Not agreed by the People's Party with the People's Party, agreed between the People's Party, the Government of Wales and the agents of the sector. We have presented a frame of reference articulated until the year 2027 which has just been sent to the European Commission and approved by the Central Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a roadmap of innovation in Galicia, a detailed map of the areas of technological expertise and knowledge, which is not what happens to the BNG spokesman when he goes up to the rostrum, that's what the experts in the sector have to say. Or do you know more than those professionals who work in the 500 companies, the professionals who participated in those 27 jobs or the innovation professionals who participated in this whole interview process? He no longer knows the BNG, no, no, I think the BNG of this knows less. We present a detailed map of the areas of technological specialization and knowledge that will enable us to generate increasingly competitive activities and thus generate wealth and well-being for families and for the Greeks. We believe that the Government knows where it's going, has a perfectly defined roadmap, and we would like the opposition to feel working with the Government, not to come here to criticize everything without making a single constructive proposal. The priorities of the Strategy are perfectly defined, explained by the advisor. This strategy is based on sustainability and digitization, not on what the Government says, but on what the sector says, in line with the European Green Pact strategies and digitization. This strategy seeks to strengthen the Greek R & D+i ecosystem, boosting a more integrated model, enhancing the transfer and knowledge and retention of talent and positioning Galicia as a reference to state and European level. It's an absolutely cross-sectional strategy, both in terms of resources and in terms of development. Of course, public-private participation is fundamental to us. And it's that this strategy is trying to boost that collaboration that both you and your skin allergy provokes them. Of course there must be public-private collaboration and of course there must be return to our country's economic activity. Of course you have to. This strategy seeks to break down the glass ceilings of small and medium-sized enterprises, from traditional sectors that, thanks to R & D+i, can open up new opportunities and aspire to more innovative activities. This strategy seeks to boost Galicia's brand also in the field of R & D+i with the aim of capturing new investments and becoming a referent in Spain and Europe. Of course it is, in Spain and in Europe. And finally, this strategy seeks to support a fair and orderly energy transition. I know that the Socialist Party doesn't like us talking about this, they don't like it! But the reality is that the thermal power station at the Bridges is closed because you've closed it. The truth is, you don't work in Alcoa because you threw all the workers out of the street. And the truth is, we have a serious problem with the competitiveness of our electrointensive industry because the Socialist Party has improvised a transition policy without any criteria. And now, in the difficult situation in which we find ourselves, it is shown that the PP was right when we criticized the eco-transition of banners, of false echoesism, which practises the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Time gave us reason. The crisis did not provoke the war of Ukraine and Putin, no, no, here we are having a lot of trouble with improvisation and the irresponsibility of the greatest government that ever had in Spain. You think at the Council of Ministers there are two football teams, 22 ministers, the most expensive government in the history of Spain, the most useless government in the history of Spain. And that's why, of course, we're going to move forward, in our strategy of intelligent specialization, in that area that for us is fundamental to the ecological transition. Fair and orderly energy transition; transition, of course, but taxation, none. Because their imposition, their ecological intransigence has led to the destruction of many jobs. No, no, no, it's not Putin's fault. It is true that the war in Ukraine has worsened the international economic context, but the cause of the economic crisis that affects families, which affects small and medium-sized enterprises... today all Spaniards are about 10% poorer than in the beginning of the year because of inflation that has a clear responsibility, called Pedro Sánchez, and his Government. Of course, the war has worsened the situation, but the war is not responsible, they don't hide behind the war to cover up the political irresponsibility of the worst government that Spain has ever had. War can't be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u74	...an excuse. I'm done, president. I think we're facing an ambitious strategy, the fruit of work in collaboration with many companies and agents of the innovation and research ecosystem in Galicia. That guarantees the greatest investment in our history in innovation until the year 2027; that, of course, drives – yes, proud – public-private collaboration; and that it proposes a cross-sectional model of work that will increase the efficiency and resources of the government's innovation effort. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López spoke for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their speeches, their approach, and therefore that they are part of this debate in order to be able to improve this proposal which the Council of Galicia brings here this morning on the Strategy of Smart Specialization. And I thank Mrs Gallego for her reading, where, indeed, there is a shared vision of what the Strategy of Smart Specialization means as to its impact on both industrial policy and the ecological transition. And, therefore, from that point of view, I think we can take steps to, precisely, improve this document. If it surprises me — well, it does not surprise me, no — once again, to see the vision of the Galego Nationalist Block, where, indeed, Mrs. Rodil, it is very difficult to dialogue and really raise consensus with the Galego Nationalist Block when you simply access here, first, exclusively to criticize the Galician Union. But most surprising, you should review the data, because you come here talking about the 2014-2020 Smart Specialization Strategy without having updated data, without consulting the website itself, where you can see the jobs that have been developed to get to the submitted document, and collecting outdated data, even the percentage that R & D is supposed to have on the raw internal product, which is 1.1%, not 0.9% that you want to move. When you come here simply with RIS3 2014-2020 and we've come to talk about RIS3 2021-2027 because, really, it's very difficult to face this absolutely negationist vision. It's really the same intervention you always do, it doesn't surprise me, it always tells me the same; and then, of course, it doesn't evolve, the Block really involves from the point of view of innovation. If I transfer to you that we have made available to anyone who is interested in all the information about the RIS3, information that — as I told you — is public on the website. A document that we have moved to the European Commission for its approval, and I therefore want you to understand that this document makes sense that it is the European Commission itself to approve it. And as you said in the Strategy for Smart Specialization 2014-2020, which has won the European Commission itself the document submitted by Galicia, because logically, at the time it is approved, as is mandatory by the European Commission, we will transfer to this Parliament. In the meantime, it would be good to listen to their approaches, you know, it's funny — it's often done how my subconscious is deceived and passed several times — this morning, three priorities for the Galician Nationalist Block: digital technology, sustainability and social impact. The same three priorities that come from the Strategy of Smart Specialization that I moved this morning. It's just, if you say so by a Popular Party advisor, it's not valid, if you say it by the Galician Nationalist Block, it's probably a country view. But, really, I can move you that you're not contributing anything. As I said, from the point of view of the preparation of the document, we had meetings with the leading agents of the innovative Greek ecosystem. We are also working to present the best possible strategy and, as you will understand — as I told you — the European Commission has not published it, waiting for its conclusions. The problem is, as I said to you, that you always keep the common places and that only give a good RIS3 if you elaborate it, independently, even from what the innovation ecosystem in Galicia thinks. You should hear it, the participation of 800 people in the elaboration of this document, also 300 citizens, from whom we collect their arrivals. I'm sorry you haven't been upset after a year, Mrs. Rodil, after a year, that we've been talking about RIS3. We've called public forums, moved to numerous meetings with the agents, and not once after a year you've been worried about the evolution of the document. And today it turns out they come here without presenting any kind of proposal. We, as I told you, have opened a participatory process where all participants have been proactive and constructive, and have submitted their proposals. And I can assure you that they have helped us to draw up the best possible document, that we have moved to the European Commission. Unfortunately, all but the Nationalist Block Galego. In any case, we will continue to work, because we understand that, as Mrs Gallego said, it is a preceptive document in order to be able to opt for the different European funds, and it means a planning document, with which we must continue to move forward. It is true — and you have already moved here — that the Council of Galicia has grown in its position as a moderately innovative region, we have advanced 34 positions in the EU ranking and, therefore, we continue to move forward. What surprises me is that we don't recognize the effort Galicia is making with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. I translated the data: in the 2014-2020 Smart Specialization Strategy, 6,700 aids were granted, and 6 out of 10 have benefited small and medium-sized companies. These are measures that really are putting Galicia in a situation of reference from the point of view of the development of innovation in Galicia. Different instruments that already form part of elements that we are sharing with other autonomous communities, such as through innovative public procurement, where Galicia has run projects worth 129 million in the period 2014-2020; or in the Joint Innovation Units itself, where 46 joint units are participating through 13 knowledge centres and 33 companies, mobilizing 130 million euros. But, Mrs. Gallego, also working on the transfer, because, indeed, the transfer of knowledge is one of the most important elements. And then, as you know, through the Start Programme we are supporting the realization of evidence concept, precisely to speed up and strengthen the success cases of the technological transfer of the market of public research offices and of the various technological centres. And since 2016 we have supported 23 projects, with an investment of 10 million euros, which are currently creating more than 146 jobs through the creation of 9 spin-offs, and also through 10 licensing agreements and 7 investment operations. I think they're data where we're clearly marking a clear trend towards the transfer of knowledge, supporting us both in public universities and, as I said, in the technology centres themselves. And they talked to me both Mrs. Gallego and Mrs. Rodil about the talent programs. I regret that the Galician Nationalist Block remains a negationist. The data is conclusive: since 2009 there has been a net entry of young people and girls into Galicia derived precisely from the policy of incentive to talent; 16,300 young people and girls who have clearly increased the population of young people in Galicia: 161,123 who have entered Galicia, 144,823 who have left Galicia. These are conclusive data, as I say, but certainly, if we speak in terms of R+D+i, the relevant data is that we currently have the largest number of researchers and employees in R+D activities. Much more, Mrs. Rodil, who in 2008, when he ruled the Galician Nationalist Block. It should certainly be that comparison and it would be that we have 6,920 researchers and researchers in Galicia, 10,774 employees and employees active in R & D+i and, as I told you, 41% women, which is a given that we give enormous value to the importance that it has, precisely, in the development of equality policy also in the development of science and innovation. And you tell me about talent capture. There is also an important programme that we have developed since the Galician Summit as the Opportunius Programme, which has now allowed us to have in Galicia 25 researchers supported by the European Research Council, and which, as you know, the Galician Council has invested 8.5 million euros in support of researchers, who have captured 36 million euros in innovation. I mean, every euro we're investing is multiplying by four the investment that these excellent researchers develop and that comes to reinforce also a talent support policy, not only through talent programs, the Opportunius Programme, but also, for example, the development of the industrial doctorate that we are driving in Galicia. They told me about R & D+i and Mrs. Rodil spoke very loud today, but... she failed her subconscious. Because, of course, the Galician Union comes to talk about pushing a strategy of smart industrialization based on public-private collaboration. And, therefore, based on the bet on the increase in public funds, and nothing said of that increase in the contribution of the EUR 3,000 million with which this RIS3 is endowed. And Mrs. Rodil speaks clearly of the basic R & D. Mrs. Rodil, innovation is not basic. R & D is basic, and that's where subconscious needs, because surely when I talk about R & D data, I'd see that in Galicia investment in R & D actually grew by 34%, more than 10 points above the national average, and we've reached today the highest level of investment in the entire historical series, with 641 million euros, representing 1.1% of gross domestic product. But if you really want to have a debate with rigour and not bring here the Strategy of Smart Specialization that comes from the period 2014-2020, you'd see that, in fact, the weight that you have transferred here from countries and autonomous communities, as also moved Mrs Gallego, who has a greater investment in R & D with respect to gross domestic product, would see that in all those countries, in all those autonomous communities that have a greater weight of R & D, is precisely because of the weight that the private sector has in those economies in R & D investment. And they would see, for example, that in the Basque Country private investment accounts for 76% of R & D investment. You'd see in the United States that this private sector contribution to R & D is 73%, or that in China it's 77%. While in Spain, Mrs Rodil, the contribution of the private sector is 55.9%. In Galicia, unfortunately, we are currently 51.2%. It's true that five points more than in 2014. Galicia increased from 47,6 % of private R & D investment in 2014 to 51.2 % representing the private sector in 2021. If we really want to have a development of R & D with respect to gross domestic product as other countries have, we need to work together with all the productive tissue to increase investment in private R & D, because that is one of the challenges that we really have marked and, of course, they are destined to close to the 3,000 million euros of public investment that are listed in the Strategy of Smart Specialization, and they have as their objective to mobilise more than 2,000 million euros of private investment. It is therefore a public-private investment of EUR 5 billion, which is, I insist, more than 157 per cent in the previous period. Finally, we will continue to work to achieve, in fact, in 2030, 2% of R & D expenditure on gross domestic product. That is the fact that the Strategic Plan of Galicia is gathering, and that is — we are aware — an ambitious goal, we understand that it is feasible and, therefore, we will continue to significantly strengthen the measures directed to which business R & D exceeds the 60% level in 2030. I understand that the Galego Nationalist Block does not like this, but it's the reality that we really want to approve with respect to countries making an R & D+i bet and therefore RIS3 actually collects as a clear goal the growth of private sector R & D so that it can achieve that 60% and therefore helps us, in conjunction with the public bet and funding, to achieve 2% of the R & D in 2030. I was told by Mrs Gallego about the execution data and, therefore, in some way, how we're applying the different games. I think, of course, if we want to do a real analysis of what is the investment capacity we're having in R & D, I think you should reflect that you know perfectly well that Feder funds — since you've made a partial reading about your balance sheet — can be invested up to 2023. If you want, Mrs Gallego, to take a real account of the execution of the ERDF funds on R & D+i, we will indeed know about it in the year 2023. I do give you a data, given that it is collected in budgets, and is that the Galician Innovation Agency has been adjudicated at this time above all the funds it had programmed in the Feder Funds 2014-2020. Specifically, the Galician Innovation Agency is committed to EUR 143 million of the EUR 114 million allocated, which means that the Galician Innovation Agency is going to have at this time a 125% execution in so far as it can develop all the funds that it has already committed and which, therefore, companies are currently developing, are investing, and they have in that period N+3 until December 2023 for the execution of these funds. So it's amazing that you want to bring here the idea that really Galicia is not running the funds properly. Surely what you should worry about is how the Government can support that Galicia can have a greater investment capacity in R & D; issues that have met both the spokesperson of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block. Maybe because, of course, they're in the Government of Spain and not here... they probably don't like to talk about the politics that is developing right now in the next generation funds, which Mrs. Rodil also mentioned. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to give you a data and surely in the replica you can transfer me if you're in accordance with the policy that the Government of Spain is developing in the management of the Next Generation R & D and innovation funds. I can tell you that the Ministry of Science and Innovation has charged 3,382 million euros of the next Generation funds. The count he's been suing Galicia for the whole period is 30.6 million euros. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, 0.9% is what helped you by the Ministry of Science, the Socialist Party, supported by the Nationalist Block of Galicia, in the next generation funds. So, of course, it's very difficult to defend the country. That's why I think if they really wanted to defend the country, they should do a much broader analysis, in addition to the strategy of intelligent specialization itself, of the commitment that the government is really developing here in Galicia. Finally, as I told you, we felt proud, very proud, of the innovation ecosystem in Galicia. Because when Galicia participates in Horizon 2020, which is the most competitive programme we have to raise European funds, they will see that Galicia is participating in 423 R & D+i activities and we have achieved a return of 191 million euros to 155 entities. And this is more than double what was achieved in the previous framework programme of R+D+i, which was 87 million euros. We have raised 120% more funds in Europe in the current framework with regard to the previous framework. And if you ask me if that's a symptom of pride, because I have to tell you yes, because it's a symptom of pride and competitiveness of our productive fabric, our businesses, our universities and our technology centers. So, logically, we are going to seek consensus with the innovation ecosystem. We develop it in developing the strategy of intelligent specialization itself and from there we will continue to bet on R & D+i, on investment in innovation. By giving them another specific data, on R & D+i we doubled the budget for the programme 561, to which Mrs Gallego referred, from EUR 113 million in 2014 to EUR 279 million this year 2022. Mrs. Gallego, that's an increase of 124.8%. And if that adds to him that the budgets of the Galician Innovation Agency have grown even further, up to 152 million euros, 171%, he would surely find an explanation why Galicia at the moment is the second autonomous community that has increased public investment in R & D and the fifth as far as its volume. And surely that's a clear indication of the effort we're making. And by the way, I don't forget the importance of the research career. The surprising thing is that the Galician Nationalist Block is very pleased with the Law of Science. I'd like you to move, surely, what is the government's commitment to the development of the research career? Because researchers themselves have not found exactly what position the Government has in drafting the Science Law itself and they are actually seeing what steps they will take. What I can move them is that in Galicia we're going to start a process of stabilization and homogenization of the research career. And we will share with the researchers, with the support staff, this proposal so that, in fact, Mrs Rodil, in addition to the pre-doctoral and post-doctoral calls we have convened at the Galician Council, which you have made clear, because you spoke only about the Government and the European Union, because we will work, precisely, so that in Galicia, effectively, regardless of the decision that the Government can make, we have a research career that will allow the stabilization of our researchers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u77	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We set the possibility of opening a special round of clarifications. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u78	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice-President, let me come here to take a look at the calls... I really, really, I just stayed... from the post doc and pre doc calls, with which last year, I don't know, you already have a crime. The self-government has to consolidate a stable public career for technical personnel and investigators. And, in addition, increase resources. The Galician Union must ensure generational change and the attraction and retention of talents, as well as ensure the principle of effective equality between men and women. The Galician Union has to dignify the work of researchers and researchers already, and don't come here to draw on the pre-doctoral and post-doctoral calls with the past year, which we've already debated in this plenary on one occasion. [[Applause]] It's not a plan now to tell me what happened. But, finally, don't pull your chest out of it, really not, really don't pull it out of the public career here post doc, especially in Galicia. They criticize the Government of Spain, but I'll tell you that the Government of Spain has been reunited with universities and with all the research material to do this reform of the law of science, this reform of the law of science that creates a new undefined contract modality for scientific, technical and management staff. This science law that also measures the replenishment rate, which I will remind you that between 2011 and 2016 more than 5,000 research posts have been destroyed, 5,000 research posts destroyed between 2011 and 2016! Who was ruling? Who was ruling? And the difference is that in 2021 the replacement rate was 110%. And this year the replacement rate will be 120%, that is, for every ten researchers who retire the Government of Spain will rest sweet. Yeah, you don't seem to like it, but it's gonna be like that. And another measure of science law that they so criticise is compensation for the termination of the contract to researchers, researchers pre doc and also post doc researchers, who were not recognized the right to compensation so far. I mean, Critician, but this is all about the entire fabric of the investigator's staff. The wager for the science of the Government of Spain is total. Moreover, the Ministry of Science and Innovation has allocated the largest budget in our country's history, with 3,843 million euros. And this will provide better opportunities for people who research and innovate and more Spanish research, better scientific infrastructure and more science and innovation in all the territories of Spain. As you can see, the Government of Spain is making a strong bet on R & D+i, because they know that knowledge and innovation are essential for maintaining and improving social well-being and economic growth. You do the same thing. I would also like to make a reference to execution. Look, the one who gave the warning to the Galician Union was the European Union for having the worst execution of the Feders. The warning was made to the European Union, which, I repeat, said: it is necessary to increase the rate of execution of expenditure and to intensify [...] of private investment combining public aid in research, development and innovation projects. That is what the European Union has said. This is not what this honourable Member has said. And I'm still saying that I think there needs to be a lot more investment in R & D+i in order to reach 1.5% of gross domestic product in the next budgets. That's our proposal, because you just said 2% by 2030. Let me doubt that this is going on. And your government, Mr. Conde, has to increase the budget of the program to boost innovation in pemes in our autonomous community and make a greater effort on the part of your government to make innovation reach the pemes, reach the pemes. Socialists believe that it is essential for the self-government to make a greater effort to be at the vanguard, in innovation, in order to have a modern economy, at the height of Europe. In order to achieve this, their government needs to invest more in innovation and, in particular, more in innovation in pemmes. We insist, pemmes need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u80	...a pull to be able to innovate. Without innovation there's no competitiveness, I've told you and I'll tell you again. That's why the Autonomic Government has to accompany these little Galician companies to investigate and innovate. The Galician Union has to raise the level of public funding for R+D+i,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u82	...if not Galicia will be left behind in this field. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galgo Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u84	Thank you, President. In a debate that is central, which is strategic for the present but, above all, for the future of this country, in the midst of such a transformation as we are living in, which is moving absolutely everything, that is, there you cannot decide to stand still, because if you stop losing positions, because the others are moving, in the middle of that debate, which is strategic, I insist, that it is central, that it is vital for the economic and social and cultural development of this country, to me what I regret is that I come here to manipulate what I say, to lie about what we are saying from the BNG, and in a position that is very sad, I have to say it in political terms, that it is conformism, to self-comprehensive... and to accuse myself, or to the Block, of not knowing very well what. Because all I told you and all I told you about, Mr. Conde, are results, because there's a central element in the Strategy of Smart Specialization, at RIS3, which is the evaluation, right? At least we will agree on the principles that motivate RIS3 at European level. I told you about the results, the results of the mid-term evaluation, which are the results that you have published, are your results, what you did Gain, not me, or the Block, but the agents who participate in monitoring and monitoring and evaluating the application of RIS3. Because I can come here... is that you come to tell me about the previous one, 2014-2020. Do you not analyze the results of your public policies in order to be able to introduce corrective mechanisms that do not allow them to be effective, efficient and achieve objectives? And it does everything so well, so well, that we increase public investment, I'll give it good, come on!, since 2014 we've increased public investment but we have fewer innovative companies, 14% less; we have less patents and, besides, what the documents also tell us, really, is that I'm not making anything up. It's that we're insulting the agents involved in the process of developing and evaluating RIS3. I'm telling you what the results are: RIS3 has not been sufficiently communicated or adapted to all agents. The first thing we have to ask ourselves is why, if you're investing 30% more companies in innovation, you lose 14% of innovative companies with the amount of public money you're injecting. Because they're always the same ones that innovate, and they're big companies. Because that strategy of innovation is not coming to the productive fabric, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to micro-enterprises, which are reality. We'll like it more or less, but it's the reality that we have in our country's productive fabric, and it's not bad in itself. Changes to applications will be introduced. What's the matter? That they're excessively generalist programs and they're not the same for all productive sectors, they're not the same for the whole business profile. What do you propose to BNG? We're going to make them more specialized by adjusting them more to the needs of different sectors, because it's not the same start-up as a cheese, but they both have to introduce innovation into their production model. And, above all, we're going to mark ourselves as a target, too, not only direct help lines, but advice lines, for example. Because what does RIS3 also tell us? That there is no communication, that many companies don't even know it's RIS3 and that it can benefit them, and there's a lack of coordination. And I literally read: "Low coordination in the planning and execution of support instruments." We need to advise, accompany, not only give help lines, but for example for the purchase of technology, but also adapt us to the business reality of the productive fabric of this country. I insist, it's a conformism that scares me. Because in the midst of the great transformations that are under way, what can't be said is that the counselor comes... because I already have the spokesperson for the People's Party, well, I'm already bored with the argumentary, because to come here and do an intervention on RIS3, at least I recommend him to read some of the documents that are hanging. And that makes argumentary in the press rounds, not here, not here!, because it gives sadness. [[Applause]] I tell him, they talk to themselves, I already... next, F5, you know... update. And then, all the proposals, let's say, different ones that are supposed to be introduced into RIS3, what we're talking about is mission, and what you put here are hypothetical examples, a hypothesis. We can't talk about hypotheses, we have to talk about concrete measures. I insist, with lines that allow us to win in innovative companies, adapt to the reality of the productive fabric of small and medium-sized companies in our country, bring together advisory tools. These synergies, of course, need to be connected between the Greek university system, which is where 70% of the country's knowledge is produced, the technology centres, indeed, but also with vocational training, for example. Vocational training has a lot to do with the expertise, innovation and added value generation of this country's productive tissue. And finally, we do a lot of emphasis, a lot of emphasis, in the research career, because knowledge is generated by people. At the moment the machine, even though we're progressing a lot in artificial intelligence, doesn't replace people, and that's why we need an ambitious, aligned human resource policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u86	...—end, President—with a European trend, with European policies. I've been here for five years and five years hearing the same thing, that we're going to do a research career, that we're going to do a research career, but it's not enough. And whenever there's a criticism from the BNG about the lack of this stabilization and consolidation phase, we have the pre doc, we have the post doc, which is training, we need to walk towards the other three steps, the Fellows, the Associated and the Teachers. We have not invented anything, and that is the policy of the European Union, of the European Commission. Tell us Opportunius. So the people who listen to us understand it's Opportunius, it's like paying Messi a bonus for winning the league. I'm ERC,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u88	... are people who are at the highest level of European research, and we need policies for excellence, for those people who are already at that level. Man, don't tell me no,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u90	...is that I think we can read, Mr. Count! Honestly, we know how to read, and what we're not focused on is that other part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u92	...that is not just excellence but that it is the basis that allows us to gain talent and be excellent. BNG's proposals are repeated, yes, because they're what this country needs and we still believe they're the necessary ones and they'll be done with you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u93	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician People's Group, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u94	Thank you, President. Do you know what makes us different, Mrs. Rodil? I know I bore her when I talk, I feel good. When you talk, I listen carefully, because, even if we don't think the same thing, I think that, although we represent most, it's good to listen to minorities. What's not right is the sovereignty of minorities, who think they're right even if the Greeks deny it in the last 40 years of democracy and autonomy in Galicia. It's probably that pride that turns BNG into a minority party that can't represent the Greeks because it doesn't listen to the Greeks, because you don't listen to the Greeks, because you think they're right because they're nationalists and you live in an exclusive Galicia where those who don't think like you can't exist and can't live together. [[Applause]] Look, the RIS3 of the country I suppose is a RIS3 accompanied by empanada and meat to the caldron. Pandeirite nationalism is what they represent every time they speak, absolute disconnection with Galician reality, because it has taken its leader for many years to run the carpet of this Parliament and very few to climb the streets and the people of Galicia. Look, they can't be happy when things go well. It turns out we're making a balance of the year 2014-2020, we've got more personal researchers, more investment in innovation, and you're useless and critical. It turns out that the advisor agrees to present the plan until 2017, 5,000 million euros, 3,000 publics, 2,000 of the private initiative, and the BNG remains angry with itself. Mrs. Rodil, a lot of words, but the truth is you haven't heard the intervention of the second vice president. Most of the things that you proposed are already covered by the Greek Strategy presented by the advisor. You announced the biggest investment in innovation in Galician history, and you told us about a cut in 2012, 10 years ago, you announced the extension of strategy to small and medium-sized companies, companies that are out of the traditional circuit of innovation, and you criticize that you concentrate on a few companies. If what we want is precisely the opposite. You don't listen or care, because the BNG manual says you have to be against, against everything and against everyone. How much scour for a game as small as the Galician Nationalist Block! Mrs. Rodil, you were upset, in addition, when the councilman, the vice president, said you were part of the government. They're not part of the government, they're worse, they're supportive. Don't ask me to take the picture of Ana Pontón with Adriana Lastra, that we all get colored, but we're in some shame. Don't ask me to remind you where you are and where we are. We have a strategy that is part of civil society, industry companies: 500 nothing more and nothing less, 27 work tables where experts in innovation and research participated, 175 interviews with professionals. But here it turns out that whoever is right is the BNG, locked up in itself, denying the reality of a Galician who, despite you, despite its absolute negationism, is a Galician that advances and grows, a Galician in which you are neither expected nor expected. And we're going to keep working, because the truth is we have in Galicia the Government with more experience of self-government in Spain. That's reality, but we also have a very expert opposition in Galicia, an expert in criticising everything, without making a single proposal. Won't it look like Mrs. Rodil actually read the plan, what did she read if she said she didn't have it? Did he have it or didn't he? Did you hurt him or didn't you read him? Doesn't the Council say you didn't make it easy, and it turns out you've read it, you're kidding? That's the BNG. [[Applause]] Look, the reality of our country, the reality of our country is very hard and very difficult, all families and businesses are having a bad time and the government... the government that makes it? The government is playing spies with Pegasus, spying, by the way, on its partners, on those who govern. It was thought curious that you were spying on them in the morning and in the evening, you wanted to put them in the Committee on Official Secrets, to parties which, by the way, were against the state. That's the reality of the Government of Spain, a government focused on its own, which forgets the problems that most Spaniards face. You, Mrs. Gallego, wanted to stand up today as Minister of State spokesperson You told us all about the good that is going on in Spain, but the reality is that you must not go out into the street, you must not be fully aware of what is happening in our country, the difficulties of all families. [[Laughter]] By the way, you're not even capable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u96	...to fulfill your own commitments. Presidents' Conference: in the wake of the cry of the autonomous presidents of all Spain, also of the Socialist Party, President Sánchez committed himself to lowering taxes. That tax drop proposal isn't even expected. They have on the table a proposal from President Feijóo, who made more than you in these years in the Government of Spain. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u98	We presented a tremendously ambitious plan to define Galician innovation until the year 2027. It will mobilise 5 billion euros. You don't — it seems — have any proposals to add to that plan. Maybe, possibly because of that, we're in government with an absolute majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u100	...by the way, getting bigger and bigger, and you're in opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u102	...more and more divided, more fragmented, more and more isolated. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López, the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, with this strategy of smart specialization that we bring to this Galicia Chamber today, we are trying to do our homework from the point of view of planning on R & D+i policy and therefore have a roadmap that can clearly identify which priorities are, which are the objectives of innovation policies in Galicia towards the next decade. In this sense, we try to continue to the main challenges and all the work done in the former Strategy of Smart Specialization, but being logically aware of the current context, which forces us to redouble even more the efforts and investments in R & D+i to respond precisely to those challenges as demanding as the digital and energy transformation itself. And with this objective, one of the main strengths of this strategy is precisely the mobilization of public and private funds. It will be EUR 4,988 million, of the EUR 3,000 million that comes from public funds, which means an increase of 157% more than in the previous budget framework 2014-2020. So by making a bet, not only from the point of view of goals, but also from the point of view of resources, as far as public and private investments. A strategy that, as I moved to the previous intervention, was the result of a dialogue process. Dialogue with productive tissue, dialogue with knowledge centres, universities, ultimately, dialogue with the entire Greek R & D+i ecosystem, with business fabric and also, as I said, with citizenship itself, through different outreach meetings that we organize on the street. And I think that in this context it is important to highlight precisely that this document is the fruit of the contribution of the ecosystem itself and, therefore, surely, would make a call to prudence, especially in the interventions that have been made both by the spokesman of the Socialist Party of Galicia and by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. A strategy that, in addition, reaffirms the integrative vision we have since the Galician Union, with the establishment of this interdepartmental R & D+i Commission, which, as you know, will for the first time mark a policy of R & D+i with a cross-sectional character throughout the Galician Union. I, Mrs Gallego and Mrs Rodil, clearly moved which were the priorities of work, and there was no response from your parliamentary groups about whether or not they agreed on those priorities. I understand that, at least, they should be valued. They should assess how this new Strategy of Smart Specialization seeks to focus on sustainability the differential axis with respect to previous R & D+i policies; as RIS3, through digitization as a facilitating element, will try to promote that economic and social transformation in Galicia. And how, by centering people around, through research and innovation aimed at addressing the challenges of Greek society, we really respond to those challenges. And I would also like you to make an internal reflection within the Galician Socialist Party, within the Galego Nationalist Block, as we are trying to strengthen the R & D+i ecosystem, not only by increasing the competitiveness of the business and industrial fabric, by improving the hope and quality of life of people, by increasing the sustainability and efficiency of public resources and by generating the most qualified employment, of course, also through the capture of the best researchers, because we effectively defend, Mrs Rodil, a research of excellence as well. And logically, all those efforts we understand should be directed at breaking the glass ceiling for small and medium-sized companies in sectors traditionally far away from the R & D+i. I don't usually do it, but I'm going to pick up my first intervention, which Mrs. Rodil certainly can find meeting points instead of focusing, as she did in her intervention, at RIS3 2014-2020 and in the first evaluation of 2018, which was not the subject of debate, because the object of debate was the document of RIS3 2021-2027. In any case, in my first intervention I have clearly transferred that at this stage - I recall my first intervention - "we are going to work to return Galicia more European and state funds, so that those agents who can compete in Spain and Europe access this funding, while the Autonomic Administration is focused on giving priority to small and medium-sized enterprises helping them to gain size and competitiveness through R & D+i. Finally, making a bet for universalizing R & D+i policy, also in small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore working to boost Galician brand from the R & D+i area to capture new investments and position ourselves as a reference in Spain and also in Europe as a whole." Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment to bet on R & D+i, to ensure that the sustainable recovery and the future of progress for the next generations have in knowledge their tractor element and, from there, we need that R & D+i policy complements the dual energy and digital transition that we have already begun and that it is the guarantee to get out of the current context stronger. Galicia knows, just as we know the importance of improvisation planning. We are facing a new strategy of smart specialization that involves a map of innovation in Galicia towards the next decade and, on that map, all routes are well defined, all roads lead to a greener and more digital and more innovative Galicia and, above all, is a document that is part of the government's consensus along with the entire R & D+i ecosystem. And if you allow me already to finish, I would just ask you this morning to join this administration and the rest of the Greek R & D+i ecosystem just to build among all of you a more innovative Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u105	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to point 4 of the motions, starting with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union on the transfer of vital minimum income. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olll Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the minimum vital income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u106	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u107	Thank you, President. I, trusting the two debates — because in the end everything is a continuum — believe that this country deserves more. And I frankly say that resignation, that self-comprehensibility, that conformism, that attempt to cancel the political debate by opposing the opposition, disqualifying the other or manipulating what it says... I think we have or we should, we should, have the responsibility, all and all, to be up to what this country demands, than the Greeks and the Greeks give every day. And not this, in a more central, more transcendent debate, one of the strategic debates, take out the argumentary and spend 10 minutes without saying anything about probably one of the elements that should be the nation's development engine and panic. What it leaves me is I don't know if it's amazing anymore, but that's what we have, at least for the moment; and what we need, in any case, is to open new paths and also a new path and to have a society and a country that is more inclusive, which is more guaranteed for people, besides, and groups of people who have the greatest precaution and who are in a situation of greatest weakness today. Today we bring a motion that comes from the interpellation of the previous plenary session — as you will recall — which is very focused on the economic benefits that exist today in our country, mainly at risk and the minimum vital income. And the motion we stand for today is made up of a set of measures that aim to achieve three purposes: the first is to stop treating people benefiting from Risk as criminals; the second is to end with the incompatibility between Risk, fundamentally, and the minimum vital income; and thirdly, to walk towards a single income, a Welsh income of social and labor integration. He said that the first of the objectives is to stop treating the beneficiaries — I think he has bothered — of the risk as criminals, as is the determination of the judicial judgments that all of his lordships know and of those we refer to, particularly that of the Vigo Dispute-Administrative Court, at the last plenary session. And that says, with absolute clarity and roundness, that the only irregular procedure throughout this conflict was that of the Galician Union. And in addition, he warns you in his judgement, or he remembers in that firm judgment, justice says that: one, the Galician Board has omitted the hearing process throughout the process of claiming interested persons. Who has treated how the administration is disappointed that it has always acted in accordance with what determines the law, who has always made knowledge of it with speed and speed — including the professionalism of workers and social workers in our country — any changes in their economic situation. And that, having obliged Junta to process compensation — as the Social Inclusion Act of 2013 says — what made it require the full return of the accounts that were always legally perceived during the months in which this supposed incompatibility is subsequently produced retroactively. So what we are asking for today in the motion since the BNG is that the administration itself will, of its own motion, initiate a process of review of cases in which this incompatibility occurred when they received the vital minimum income with retroactive character, leaving without effect the obligations of reintegration in the sense of judicially dictated by recent judgments. To ensure maximum protection for beneficiaries, therefore, by using a common criterion for all of them and not making any difference between those who have decided to go to justice to claim their rights and those who have not done so for the reasons that they were, as well as, have just claimed in recent days, the Official Social Work College of Galicia. Because it's a real nonsense and a disposing of all the prejudice that the Government of Greece — the Spanish government also because of the delay, by the absolute slowdown in the processing of minimum living income — but especially the Galician Union, by continuing to maintain the incompatibility of the two benefits, which is causing the most vulnerable population in this country a terrible damage, having as they have, in addition, capacity, competition and, we would dare to say from the BNG, the duty to prevent it from being kept in time and produced. And this has to end, ending with this incompatibility that currently exists between Risk and any other economic benefit of the same nature, namely the minimum vital income since its creation; and doing so in addition to a specific time and with maximum speed. So what we have included in the motion that we have tabled today since the BNG is that this proposal for reform of the Galician Social Inclusion Act is being put forward before the end of the current session of this Parliament, with the objective that it can be dealt with and with the greatest speed in force to end — I insist — with that incompatibility, which is causing enormous prejudice to the most vulnerable population in this country. We put a specific objective, which is at the end of this session. Because I want to remind you — as we did at the previous plenary session — that the Galician Union has been telling the Galician Nationalist Block for years, the House and the whole society of this country that are working, which has been very busy, all winding up and all the candles. But the truth is, there is no change that had been brought to this House by any of the possible ways. And I want to remember that there are various legislative mechanisms that could activate the Galician Union to end this incompatibility and for none of them has chosen, either by means of the swift way in the accompanying laws, or by bringing up a reform project of the Social Inclusion Act in these two years that we have been almost legislating. We cannot continue to maintain and extend time without incompatibility, by prejudices — I insist — which is causing the population less income, which is in a situation of greater vulnerability; because we speak of people at risk of social exclusion and poverty or who are already in that situation. I want to remember that if they're being claimed, or if they've been claimed, amounts that in many cases exceed 5,000 euros to people living with less than 600 euros a month and that they haven't committed -- and I really emphasize this -- a single irregularity, not the least, throughout the process. It was the situation generated by the administrations themselves, by both the Spanish and the German governments, and, in particular, by the procedure of the Greek Government, which has led many people to a situation as serious as this. And it's irresponsibility, it's absolute irresponsibility that the German Government charges, throws the entire Administration, against the most vulnerable people. Therefore, reform of the Social Inclusion Act and transfer Galicia from the minimum vital income. But firmly, with consistency, not from time to time when this debate comes out here saying that if Galicia wants this competition, it is instead demanding the convening of the Joint Transfer Commission, which is a capacity of the Government of Greece to claim, among other things, that transfer of the minimum vital income. But in the meantime it does not proceed because it is laborious, I mean, it is not simply to have the will and the next day it appears published neither in the BOE nor in the DOG, but in the meantime that this process of transfer of the minimum vital income to Galicia, which is signed — as has already been done with other governments, namely, the holes, both Navarra and Euskadi — these administrative management agreements of this benefit. With the goal of what? He said it at the beginning of the intervention: from walking towards a true Galician income of social and labor inclusion, a unique income that also ends with that bureaucracy that loads many times people who already have enough problems as to have to be processing over and over again, or being working over and over again in very tedious administrative processes. And what we also formulate in our proposal is that in this reform process of the Galician Social Inclusion Act not only ends with incompatibility, but we also move towards a reform of our own income which, I insist, guarantees minimum income for people who are in worse conditions, adapting it also to the reality of poverty in the 21st century, in the year 2022. I would like to remind you that the risk is, of the economic benefits of an autonomous nature that exist in the Spanish State, of the lowest in our surroundings. What we are proposing today from BNG is that it be linked to the minimum interprofessional wage, not to the IPREM. This happens so already, for example, in the income guarantee of Basque income, which is a good mirror to look at. Even though he's actually got his problems and he's very improved, like everything else, but he's a good mirror to look at. To end this incompatibility, too, with income from work, because today we have a lot of poor workers, that is to say, having a job contract doesn't mean that you count on the income you need to have decent living conditions. And, above all, also incorporate that new Risga — as it were — or that Risga reform, those people who are now excluded, both from what is in force and from the minimum vital income. And we do special work in collectives like protected minors, or extra-protected minors, because they are a collective who, as you know, have a very difficult insertion into the labour market. And lastly — we have defended it on many occasions — we insist on the need to work on it, which is to incorporate the basic card as an emergency resource already within the legislation itself, regulating it as a resource for which access as a bridge is available, in the meantime there are no other economic benefits, namely risk. Today there is a risk processing process that can be dilated over a month, in two months, and there are many people who can't wait to have access to food resources, or to have access to the purchase of hygiene products, basic products. We believe it's a proposal with which all political forces can and should agree. And we expect to count on the support of the whole House. Nothing else, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u109	Thank you, President. We shared in everything you just told Mrs. Rodil, and we shared practically all the issues you mentioned. It seems to us that this kind of debate, unfortunately, is still necessary in view of the crisis we are experiencing, motivated by the pandemic and now by the consequences of the Russian war on Ukraine. And I think we also have a duty to be honest with citizenship, and for that we have to chronologically order what has happened since the minimum income was created vital to this day, so that the Greeks and the Greeks know the truth. On 1 December 2020, Commission 3rd, on social policy budgets, even in the year when the Government of Spain created the minimum vital income, of a nature compatible with the minimum incomes for inclusion of the whole of the autonomous communities of the country. That same day we have already warned the Council itself — especially this Member — of the Social Policy Council itself, that the risk was incompatible, because of the Galician Act of inclusion, with similar benefits. Do you know what the social policy advisor's response was? So I quote textually: "You say we have to do our best to match Risk with the minimum vital income. We can't make the minimum living income compatible, which is now born, with a 30-year allowance, the logic is that an allowance that is born now is made compatible with what is already there, not that which is already new." Translated, or the same thing, the Social Policy Advisor did not know that the minimum vital income was compatible with the minimum incomes of the autonomous communities! By the time I was seven months old, I had approved the minimum living income. Don't read the law! This is incredible, but it's true, this is happening in Galicia. Five months later, because this doesn't come out for free, this has consequences, and five months later the consequences have come. Hunta calls at the door of 2,000 families at the limit to return thousands of euros after being benefited by the minimum vital income: "The Hunta claims the Risk to families who do not reach them to eat if they also receive the minimum vital income." Why did this happen, gentlemen? I'll explain. This happened because Junta decided, despite our warning, to maintain the risk incompatibility with similar benefits. We're talking about families in critical situations, with no resources, many of them with minors in charge, to whom the German Government has claimed 2,000, 3,000 and up to 5,000 euros. And the worst thing is that it remains incompatible today, with a pandemic, with the consequences of a war like those that are suffering, particularly, the most vulnerable families. And the Greek Government, far from making an integral plan -- as we ask on many occasions -- to the most vulnerable people, keeps to date, April 26, 2022, after two years of implanting the minimum vital income, the veto written in the Greek Act of inclusion that prevents the compatibility of the Risk. And after claiming and treating as dying people to more than 2,000 families without resources that were granted the minimum vital income, many of them with minors in charge. [[Applause]] And did he dare without blinking to say that Pedro Sánchez has no heart? They're automatically reviewing the wrongful collection of families who are going through the worst. You are the ones who have to have a heart, who are ruling Galicia and are making these kinds of issues totally illegal and totally out of the morality that is needed and the sensitivity and empathy with the Greek citizenship, which offered them confidence to rule with an absolute majority. Third. He had to arrive in March 2022, March 2022, in order for justice to correct this defeat of the Greek Government with the families that are worst going through it, preventing the reinstatement of the Risk to people who also received the minimum vital income. The judgment that it is a scrambled for the worst and insensitive management of the Board on this issue, which is insensitive to treating people without resources as morbid, by consciously maintaining the incompatibility of Risk and then, above all, claiming that money when the Greek inclusion law itself states that the reinstatement of unduly perceived accounts will only result in the alleged concealment or misrepresentation of data, or any other fraudulent action aimed at obtaining or preserving the economic benefit, which, of course, was not the case of these families, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it would have happened to transfer the minimum vital income, but with a sensitive and diligent Italian Government with such sensitive matter! And after this lack of empathy for citizenship, do you think it is possible to transfer the minimum vital income to this government in this situation? If justice itself is rebuking you in this matter! But not only justice, but, for more information, the latest report on minimum incomes for the inclusion of the State Association of Social Services Directors and Generators at the state level revealed worrying data in Galicia in this matter. Specifically, two worrying data: First of all, the Greek Government can barely reach 5% of the coverage of Welsh and Welsh people who live under the poverty line. But in other autonomous communities such as the Basque Country or Navarre, up to 60%. Secondly, the very counties of Risga, the income of inclusion in Greece, are the lowest in the state compared to the average of the autonomous communities in our country. With this panorama in the very income of Galician inclusion, after more than 30 years of its implementation, you will understand that it's hard to imagine how you can manage the minimum vital income, although at best with Wheela as president things improve, but I doubt a lot. What is clear is the commitment of the Government of Spain to help the Government of Greece in this matter so that it has the diligence needed and work in co-management, as it moved to the meeting held in Santiago de Compostela last January 24. Proposal that, as you know - you know - you know the Law of minimum vital income, not as the advisor - you are within the framework of the additional provision. In addition, we remember the possibility that co-management uses inter-administrative compensation for payments incorporated into the amendment process by law itself. They stop twisting from the People's Party as well when they talk about the transfer to those autonomous communities that they either have to have because they're outlying communities. And the fact of asking for similar management is also complex, as you know, starting from the premise that they are legally not comparable. For all this, the Government of Spain has stretched out its hand to the Greek Government, considering that the co-management of both benefits is linked, once the Board adapts once and for all the Act of inclusion to be able to establish with diligence and coordination that allow the maximum inter-administrative collaboration. But do something, don't keep your arms crossed in this matter. Adjust the law once and for all. They increase the Counties of Risga, as the Government of Spain itself has done with the minimum vital income, to cease being the last of the queue of all Spain and to be aware of the circumstances that are living so many families that are experiencing it very badly. Don't be afraid to copy the good, which is good on the part of the Government of Spain, copy it. In Galicia we have a significant rate of child poverty, which is that many of these families have less responsibility. Make a comprehensive plan against poverty, especially child poverty, and blind people's rights at the worst. And they take into account awareness of the type of policies they have implemented over the past 13 years in social policy, the government of Spain which has the lowest income of inclusion throughout Spain, which does not reach 5% of people who are eligible for this benefit; of autonomous communities that are less likely to invest per resident potentially dependent. And, most importantly, it hides nearly 10,000 addicts without getting into the system so they don't go out in any kind of statistics and hide them. Maybe they want to do the same thing they did when we asked for the data of contagions and curfews for each residential center, to hide reality from the Greek citizenship. [[Applause]] You know it's the worst? That I'm imagining the next intervention by the People's Party and, far from accepting reality, to change, to empathize with citizenship on such a sensitive issue and be aware of the circumstances we're living, far from all this, they'll still have more to say, sure. Rectify now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u110	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the People's Party Parliamentary Group. Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u111	Well, although Mrs. Ortega is upset, I think it's my turn to say, indeed, something I have to say. The fact is that it is surprising that we are asked for rigour in the debate after listening to the interventions we have just heard. In case someone has gone unnoticed — not me, of course — and in case the BNG has doubts why this is being delayed, Mrs. Ortega has just said so. You can't give in to the minimum vital income of this government, to the other Greek government yes, but not to this government. And that's the basis for all this debate, it's not another, Mrs. Rodil, don't be mistaken. They don't give in because they don't want to give in for now. I am surprised that both the BNG and the PSOE are asking us today to support the same proposal that this Parliament approved six months ago with the only votes of the People's Parliamentary Group. I don't know if that's the rigor that Mrs. Rodil referred to. Motion for a resolution No. 3 Debate on the state of autonomy: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to call on the Central Government, at the next meeting of the Bilateral Cooperation Commission, to speed up the transfer of priority competences to Galicia, in accordance with the provisions contained in the Constitution and the Statute, in particular the transfer of the ownership of AP-9 — what now calls a road — the management of public-terrestrial maritime domain and the management of vital minimum income". Favourable votes, People's Parliamentary Group; BNG, abstention; PSOE, against. Today is very urgent. Live to see! This is the rigor that we're being asked to do. It is equally surprising that they try to take responsibility for the economic difficulties that many Greeks and Greeks suffer, and many Spaniards too - you have to say - at the Galician Summit, which turns out that they have just approved the highest social budget in their history while, yes, they remain silent about the economic management of Mr Sánchez's Government, supported by the BNG, which is the fundamental cause of the same economic difficulties. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government is not responsible for the current crisis situation, but will be with the Greeks and the Greeks. Just as it was during the financial crisis, as it was during the copper crisis. We, too, have to say, are used to trying to solve the problems that others create or aggravate and that, in addition, if they attack us for doing so. It's an old BNG and PSOE strategy. Because those who never fixed anything curiously have solutions for everything. And, that's right, what increases the stops because the bridges close? It's PP's fault. Which increases the unemployed because the government denies the specific rate for electrointensives? It's PP's fault. Hey, what if Mr. Sánchez suddenly shoots the price of light and fuel? It's PP's fault. That inflation is uncontrolled and creates unprecedented poverty in Spain? It's PP's fault. And this is because you only handle a mantra, a very simple one: while others guarantee the armchair, it's the right one's fault. And with this, you've managed the entire speech of a complete legislation. That's great. [[Applause]] Look, do you know what the problem is? The problem is that Junta has already adopted measures to alleviate the situation of those most disadvantaged by this price crisis, and continues to work so as not to leave anyone without support, as it has always done. All the citizens of Greece. And by the way, I'd ask him, since he demands rigour, not to call anyone "criminal." Because the only person who used that term to refer to people who, with all their right, attend to the judge to ask if they would be justified, was you, no one in this group. By the way, it's a scandal to you that a judge says a sentence. Home!, I have here another sentence on the same matter, dictated by another judge, specifically the Number 1 of Santiago de Compostela. And it turns out he's giving the board the reason. Why? Because it's logical. When there are problems, the judges and the judges decide according to the circumstances and legal criteria of the judge who judges them, nothing more and nothing less. That's not a scandal, it's normality in a democratic country. But Junta won't leave anyone behind. First of all, because you approved the highest social budget in our history. We started here in October. Why? Because the effects of cowardice, accumulated at the rise of inflation, started months ago, it's nothing new. And it also approved Junta a first package of extraordinary measures, because we all know that this crisis was partly exacerbated by the invasion of Ukraine by Russia — which some refuse to condemn — and partly by Mr Sánchez' policies. For example, the fantastic management you've done in Sahara and the gas upheaval that's going to produce for us in Algeria. No, no, of course not! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now he's very worried about people, he's worried about people who have to move from a risk to the minimum vital income, that's right, although they've refused to negotiate with the Government of Galicia a gateway so that the things that are happening wouldn't happen. Then they didn't worry. And we keep working. We work towards the future through the reform of the Social Inclusion Act, which is to propose a coherent aid map, to establish not that they are compatible, that is never what has been proposed, but that they are complementary, that they can be complementary. And they're talking about the accumulated delay. That, as always, forgets them that there are seven legislative amendments to that legislation that we have to complement. By the way, the last one wasn't many months ago, it was in December, Mrs. Rodil. And by the way, the proposals that you make, and which are all very respectable, are already being evaluated and incorporated depending on whether they are consistent or not with the general approach that will be made in that reform of the Social Inclusion Act. But the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that inflation continues to increase, that basic consumer products continue above the prices that with governments of another color — of mine, by the way, — justified protests. They'll remember protests, sometimes very violent, on the streets. They justified strikes, justified resignation requests. Today this problem is solved by the call of a Joint Transfer Commission! And it seems that this emergency that BNG has, and that it's running so fast, if you forget that that commitment you've already agreed to. Don't you remember? In the pact of Ana and Adriana. This was the first point of the year and they said that committee was already convened for the first quarter of 2020. Now they come in haste, now that we've managed to be the first autonomous community of ordinary regime that has already compromised the transfer of minimum vital income. Where are those magic solutions that promised us that pact? Where is your indignation at the breach of the covenant, Mrs. Rodil? Where are the superpowers of that super MP who were worth the other 22 representing Galicia? Well it turns out that Galicia is the first community that will get the minimum vital income from the common regime. And it wasn't thanks to Super Nestor, nor thanks to Wonder Pontón, nor thanks to Rodil girl. It was thanks to President Feijóo, who has no more superpower than dialogue and common sense. Look where you are! [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to participate in demagogy or resignation, and far from that, the PP has just presented a plan of urgent and extraordinary measures in defense of Spain's families and economy. The goal I think is reasonable: to return to those who suffer most from inflation and the excess collection that is entering the State's ark for that inflation. Because the reality is that while citizens pass the biggest openings in recent years, Mr. Sánchez's government has the greatest budget that he's ever had. How should that budget be used? As an image campaign to make up that new failure of socialism, this time bipartisan socialism, or to help who is worse? Look, I'm not saying it, you gave it to AIREF. Each inflation point is an additional 2,000 million for the state. That means that the forecast for this year is that the excess collection exceeds EUR 12,000 million. And you come here to talk about 15% of the minimum vital income. Look, that and all the other measures they proposed are 6 billion, half the excess they're going to collect this year. And, man!, I think we'll agree that we all have to reach our shoulder, but it also seems quite reasonable that whoever should do it more intensively is the one who has more resources. And as much as you insist on the deception that autonomous communities benefit from this, the reality is that autonomous communities will not receive at least one euro from the collection in at least two years. Because advance payments are already in. It's absolutely nothing else for us. And within two years we'll see if the excess that corresponds to the autonomous communities has to pay for it by Mr. Sánchez or, as usual, they left the package for the next one to be able to fix the damage you usually leave when you rule. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government will have that money. The government if it has that availability. Curiously, we've heard these days that they can't do that discount that would benefit families and small and medium-sized businesses because they say they need them to guarantee health and education, that we pay them to autonomous communities! But what kind of joke is this, but what kind of hairstyle do the citizens intend to vote? Look, absolutely all of Europe in our neighborhood is lowering those taxes, it's reasonable, it's normal, or you want to convince me and the rest of the Greek citizens that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u112	You have to finish, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u113	...Draghi, Mr Macron or Mr Costa are ultra-liberal dangerous that endanger public services? No, ladies. The public services that put them in danger are the demagogues and populists, those who, in the words of Guatemalan activist Gloria Álvarez, "love the poor so much that he multiplies them." That's what you are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u114	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u115	We're going to continue to solve all those people who are suffering from it, to whom the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u116	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u117	... she never left her side and once again she'll be next to her. But nothing and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u118	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the fact that the motion has been drafted by the German Nationalist Block, Mr. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u119	Thank you, President. It's just a question that Mrs Ortega used to say at first that she didn't know the counselor and the Board. They are not unaware of anything, i.e., here they lie brazenly to try to cover the responsibilities, because I, Mr. Pazos, really, all the interest of the world in speaking of the crisis caused by the Russian invasion in Ukraine and inflation, but we as we have come focused on a very specific problem, I think quite clear in the time of being able to understand it, that is that the incompatibility that remains in the Galician Social Inclusion Act 2013 between Risk and other benefits has caused that the most vulnerable people in this country and, in addition, the majority of the Perceptors and Perceptors of Risga, which does not require any familiar complement because they have no children and children in charge, that were the only ones who could accept a bonus, if they are claimed amounts that rise to more than 5,000 euros, by a problem generated by governments, by the administrations, and in particular by the Galician Union, that in two years, Mr. I said it on the day of the interrogation, I said it to the advisor, and I repeat it to you: they live comfortably using human shields, ball to throw it to the Government of Spain, as well as in that situation. That's why it doesn't end with incompatibility, so you don't move a finger to proceed to that signature of the minimum vital income management agreement, and come and take me out here a vote in October 2021. Six months passed, and the counsellor said at the previous interpellation that they had two meetings in six months. It's going with a speed!. What's bothering them? I believe that rhythm, that parsimony, which says to my mother, quite significant of what is the importance, the relevance and concern that the Greek Government has to put at least some measure to help the most vulnerable population in this country. And I want to remember that 42% of the population that would benefit from the Risk only earns the minimum income, i.e., they claim everything, they claim everything and all they've done to them was give them a little more time to be able to proceed to that return. [[Applause]] The solution we propose, which is the same, I insist, that the Official College of Galician Workers and Social Workers have asked for in recent days, is that the Galician Board, because it can do it and we believe it should do it, will automatically review all the procedures that have been opened for complaint and what it does, according to what the inclusion law sets, seek compensations and not comprehensive returns. I mean, you have to keep your hand and look for formulas to help people -- I said in my first intervention -- that they didn't cheat, that they didn't commit any irregularities, but the fact of doing everything according to what the board and the administration itself and the state law itself, and the Greek law suddenly came up with an incompatibility that they neither sought nor pursued nor had any will or fraud or delitious, and that gave justice, not caused this problem by an irregularity in the beneficiaries, but by the procedure of the administration. That the Administration, at least, really, has the good will to want to help and not to continue to fatten the problem. And then what we formulated from BNG is where we walk. We're going to solve that problem, generated, uniquely and exclusively, by the incompatibility that remains from the Galician Union, or from the legal system of this country, from the Greek legislation, of the incompatibility of the Risk, we look for that solution and walk to another stage, a scenario of complementarity, indeed. But here are agreements from this camera that we support the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, on several occasions, right, Mr Pazos? And on your own, besides, on your own, and we're looking for what complementarity is and walking towards a single income. We don't have an economic agreement there, but it doesn't matter, we're going to walk that way. So let's walk together, with whom? I think the responsibility that this House's second political force, or any one, is to put on the table which should be that path, and we've been -- no months, years -- formulating a proposal to walk towards an income that is compatible with the incomes of work, when the minimum incomes do not come enough, and that it does not have an expiration period, regardless of the vigency of the contract. Because today Risga is done, that complementarity goes with the wages of work, it's going down months a month until it disappears. It's like you're going on with a precarious job, which doesn't give you to live with dignity, that the six-month Risga disappears. We're also going to walk to a housing supplement for all the people who need it, we're going to walk also to mechanisms, tools... we've told you, we've never dropped the rings to say that the basic card is a good measure. Let's regulate it, include it in the law, make it a bridge from where you go to social services to realize that you have a precarious situation until you can access the benefit. Every time we brought these proposals, they voted against, and we still don't know what yours is. We don't know what yours is, you didn't make any proposals either the People's Party or much less the Galician Union. So, I don't know who the guy isn't here, because we brought this proposal at least three times. I think it's logical, it's sensible, it's feasible and, above all, it's fair and it's necessary. [[Applause]] They have the tender hand, we're not going to vote until after lunch and I ask them to recapcitate, the two political forces, that we vote together, unanimously, integrity as a whole, this BNG proposal, because it's fair, because it's necessary, and especially because it's worthy of the social majority and the most vulnerable people in this country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. At the end of the debate on this motion, we suspended the meeting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u121	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the situation of the fishing sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u122	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G. P. G. of the Socialist Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Mrs Patricia Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented before the Bureau the following amendment to this motion: Amendment amendment:In the resolution part of the initiative, the content of point 1 should be replaced by the following text:"1.- Request the Government of the State Government, without prejudice to any further action:- the European Directive on Energy Tax Taxation Directive and the Fit-For 55 package package package of measures, apply the Over-For 55 Directive, as well as the WTO over-reduced VAT on fish and seafood premiums, and encourage the consumption of these products.- Take the steps necessary to reverse the proposals of the Community institutions' proposals for amending the Energy Taxation Directive and the Fit-For 55 Fit-For 55 package package package package package of measures, as the WTO-based VAT-based measures to eliminate subsidies for fishing.- Keeping the situation, while maintaining the current situation, the duty-free, the duty-free, the duty-free.-free.- raising raise raise raise raise increase. - increase increase. - increase. - increase in the rate increase in the rate increase. - increase. - increase in the rate increase. - increase in the rate increase in the rate increase in the rate increase increase increase increase increase increase increase in the increase. - increase. - increase. - increase in ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex increase. - increase. - increase. - increase. - increase. - increase in the prices prices prices prices prices prices rates increase in the increase in the prices rates increase. - increase. - increase. - increase. - increase. - increase. - increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the prices rates increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase increase increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase increase increase increase increase increase increase increase increase increase in the increase increase in the increase in the increase in the prices prices prices prices rates increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase in the increase. - increase. - increase in the increase in the increase in the increase]] To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have been spending 38 days since the Government of the Union, its own president — the outgoing, I say — announced the size of the Union's star measure for the brutal crisis that the sea sector is experiencing. Literally, they intended to make up for a minimum of two months the rates charged by Galician ports. An announcement that, after March 17, they repeated until satiety, and that today has not finished their processing. I mean, a whole German government, the champion proposing and announcing measures, has been converted — for years now, not only since March 17 — into the champion also not to put any action into action. [[Applause]] A single measure that's probably still waiting for the next crisis, because for this one we already think it won't be very right. In the debate of the inquiry that gave rise to this motion today, on 4 April, the sea councillor has focused on the great weight that they have just removed from above the sea sector with that compensation of port charges for two months, and which is not yet official. Some fees that not only the central government in its ports, but also other autonomous communities with an infinitely smaller fishing fleet than we have in Galicia, have been running for six months from the beginning. In that debate, on the question, in addition, the councillor explained to us two major measures that were already being applied to Galician Union. First, intensifying the Galician campaign knows the sea, to support the fleet; and the second, or the third, if we count the rates as first, speed up the payment of the aid already granted. Measures, in fact, by automobile and, of course, by far more contempt than by magnitude. And I say that if they are not considered offensive, because any sector, and also, of course, that at sea, is not supposed to be in an extreme situation like the one you are currently suffering from, so that the axillic administration, hurry, or effect as much as before, the payment of the aid it has granted you, or that you have to wait for campaigns to promote your products to intensify now with more than one year of delay — yes, yes, with more than one year — because we have been in a crisis without a comparison to the sector, even counting the pandemic and with inflation over 10 %, even more in the country itself than in the state. Finally, a package of measures, of three measures, a large package, indeed, as that lady who accompanied the protests against the people's Party, said in the worst sense of the subject. Well, finally, a package of three measures that are nothing more than actions that should be ordinary, absolutely ordinary, but that the German Government wants to sell as genuine extraordinary measures. Now, that's right, that's not going to increase in any case. These three measures will not be increased in any case. And in case we had any doubts, it has already made it quite clear last week to the Secretary-General of the Council in the Fisheries Committee, which he denied, that he has definitely shut the door to any possibility of launching direct help from the board to the sector, because he says, they collide with those that are under way by the state government. As you see, colliding, right?, with the state government is a true argument of weight that we suggest to the People's Party that they put into the knowledge of these other autonomous communities that have already agreed, in addition, for some time, direct aid to the sector and that they certainly do not know — surely, like the People's Party of Galicia — that they are colliding with the measures of the State Government. But it's curious. While the secretary-general was cutting off from the sane any hint of self-help, he was still demanding and pressing everyone, the Government of the State, of course, to the European Union and anyone, equally, to anyone who was obviously not the German Government itself, pressing to act. It's really insulting. More than a year with very serious problems in the sea and the German Government without moving a finger. Just waiting and pressing for everyone else to move it. And when they move it, when the others move what they have to move, we can agree that late and insufficiently, everything has to be said, but when the others move what has to be moved, the Board doesn't do it either because it says that it confronts, that it collides with the measures that have already been put in place by other administrations. Yours, the German Government, isn't helping, it's not supporting or even thinking about collaborating with a sector that's been wasting money for months. The role of the People's Party, the reason for its existence, basically, is precisely what the Secretary-General said in the Committee on Fisheries, is to confront, to make any subject, even this serious crisis — it happened in the pandemic too, not surprise us, to do this part of his party struggle. And his goal is not to be a German Government, but to be a permanent opposition to the Government of the State, while, of course, in the Government of the State, another political force. When the People's Party itself governs it, simply the goal of the German Government and the People's Party in Galicia is to settle and applaud. Well, so serious was the statement by the Secretary-General of the Council, but it was not the only one in this Committee on Fisheries, because in this Committee on Fisheries the People's Party itself voted against the BNG proposal to put in place measures precisely for the sea sector, and voted against because, solely and exclusively, they wanted us to remove from our proposal all those measures that would be demanded or requested by the German Government itself. If the Government of the State were left, the People's Party would of course vote in favour. Finally, for you, for the People's Party, the real government is the Government of Madrid, it is the Government of the State; the Greek is, as you interpret it, a huge processing office that, of course, for you to accomplish a single feature, which is, as it is happening right now, with more evidence than ever, is to arrive and say: the Government of Greece is the means of reaching the People's Party to the Central Government. In short, the government of a country that has the most important fleet and fishing sector in the whole state, which this sector continues to survive despite that government, has taken a single and great measure all this time, which is, it is, it is still, to complain, to urge, to demand, to urge others to act because with us, with the Government of Greece, with the People's Party, this is not going. For us, for the Galician Nationalist Block, the truth is that the attitude of the Greek Government is as fearful as irresponsible. And it remains in pure propaganda and solves absolutely nothing, it's only useful for the proper polishing of the deputy advisors. The State Federation of Brotherhood has just met on Saturday, exciting, and has just committed itself to the entire responsibility of the world, that's where responsibility is in the sector itself, has just committed itself to continuing to work. Next we are actually providing food from the sea. But at the same time it has been expressly requesting direct support from the autonomous communities to the sector. And what is the response of the Union to this demand of the state Federation itself? Well, Junta says she's studying. When she's not studying, she's making reports, everything but ruling, that's true. All but rule. [[Applause]] So in this case, the Board is studying the possibility of using the remainder of the GEF to create a package of help, and point. That's what there is, for this we have a German Government of the People's Party. The People's Party recognises, in spite of all of this, even though it does not move a finger, even though it does nothing, it does indeed recognise that the status of the fleet, of the sea sector, is limited. That may, moreover, get worse, but, despite all this, they decide not to take measures, not to take effective measures, but rather, really, what they are doing is trying to get rid of, try to confuse and they're not even being able, right now, to move forward, as the Greek Government that they are, and predict that the thing, the current situation, can still get much worse. They're not thinking about anything like that, and in any case, if at any point they think about it, they have the solution, which is to keep demanding everyone else to do things. On the one hand, in this proposal, in this motion, of course, we make proposals to the Government of the State, because of course it is the one with the powers. Unfortunately for us, the German Government of the People's Party is also the champion in not asking for competences, not just one in thirteen years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u125	We have, of course, proposed a part of a request to the Government of the State. Among other things, we have raised a question, in addition to the one that has already been unanimously approved here at the moment, which is the reduction of the products of the sea to the super-reduced type of VVI on a permanent basis. Besides, it's a recommendation from WHO. All the actions, and with intensity, to paralyze sine die all the reforms that are under way in the European Union itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u127	...and at the level — ended, president — international to eliminate or to record the fishing oil, or to eliminate the subsidies for fishing gas, the temporary exemption while maintaining this crisis of contributions to social security and also the payment of port charges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u129	And — ended, President — meet, as the sector demands, the price of diesel at 40 cents per litre. There's nothing more for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. There are many challenges that have been facing our fishing sector for a long time, and those that are still facing them. We all know these complex trading rates and quotas, that exclusively environmental vision of the Community institutions, that imminent reform of the common fisheries policy, or those challenges that have to address the climate change sector, the demonization of the art of trawling... It's a lot of the problems we all agree with that we have to deal with the Welsh fishing sector. And also a very sharp one, which is the cost of fishing fuel, and also the threat we have talked about so long in the Commission and in plenary — these threats both from the Community institutions themselves to record fossil fuels, as well as the threat from the World Trade Organization to eliminate these tax exemptions from fishing fuel. These are threats that are there, which the sector has to face and which, of course, the administrations themselves have to defend and reverse these intentions both of the Community institutions and of the World Trade Organization itself. And in that sense goes part of our amendment, which we understand — as the Galego Nationalist Block says — that these intentions of the Community institutions and of the World Trade Organization must be reversed. What we don't share with the Galego Nationalist Block is that we have to paralyze all the sine die community reforms, but those that are now threatening our own fishing sector in an imminent manner. But, in addition to all these challenges facing the fishing sector and also the whole sea-industry chain, because now, of course, these problems have been exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has produced a greater increase in fuel prices and also raw materials and in such strategic economic sectors in our autonomous community as the fishing sector and the entire sea-industry chain. Therefore, in the face of all these problems posed to the sector, we believe that it is mandatory for all public administrations with competence in the matter — of course, the Government of the State but also the Council of Galicia itself — that they have to lay down solutions so that the sector can take this situation in the best possible way. Last week this parliamentary group took a question to the Committee on Fisheries because we wanted to know what the plans of the Government of Greece were, what the measures of the Sea Council would be to help the sector deal with this fuel price rise. And the answer, really, is that it was... let me qualify it as a pity, because the only measure on the part of the Council of the Sea, beyond agitating the aid already granted — aid already granted, not aid planned to deal with these new problems posed to the sector — was that exemption from port charges. It was a measure which was announced by the President of the Galician Council himself on 17 March, and said that the exemption from port charges would apply for two months at all ports of competition. But the other day, when we asked the German Government, what the technical secretary-general told us was that this measure was not yet in force because there was a need for several legislative amendments. So what I was telling the German Government was that the only measure you plan to put on the table the Sea Council so that the sector itself can face this problem is an exemption from port charges, which is a measure that is announced, that is not active today, and that we don't know when it will be able to enjoy the sector itself. This central government, which is so critical of Junta de Galicia, has already operated this measure of exemption from port charges in the ports of state competition located in our autonomous community. A much more ambitious measure, which goes for 6 months and is already published and active since March 31st. The Galician Union is announced and is not operational, but the Central Government has been applicable since March 31st. We also asked the Government of Greece at the Commission last week for a direct aid plan that would complement that plan of aid announced by the Central Government. The answer from the German Government was that they were not going to give that plan of help, which would also face the aid coming from the Central Government. But he came to tell us something else, he told us that the sector wasn't asking for those complementary aids from the Galician Union, that they had talked to the sector and that the sector didn't ask for this measure. But, as the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block said, we knew these days that the National Brotherhood itself asked the different autonomous communities to materialize a plan of complementary assistance by the autonomous communities to the measures that the central government put on the table. So the other day, the German Government itself lied to us, failed that possibility of putting a plan of direct aid from the Autonomous Community towards the fishing sector. But it was over there, he said he had talked to the sector himself and that the sector itself was not claiming this measure, and we're looking at how the sector is claiming it. So what we ask you to do is, beyond urgency and asking the central government to put measures on the table, also the Galician Union itself has the ability and margin of manoeuvre to articulate a line of direct aids to the fisheries sector that allows you to deal with these excessive costs at the price of fuel. Because that government that is so bad at it, the Minister himself has been able to activate this Article 26 of the Fempa Regulation, which allows in exceptional situations such as those at present to provide direct assistance to the sector. It was Mr Planas himself who asked that Article 26 of the Regulation be activated. Also, a reduction of 20 cents per litre in fuel to June 30. It is true that we are asking — and also the Central Government — that this measure has to go further for that fuel price to come down. They gave direct State aid to fishing vessels and shipowners to compensate for this increase in fuel prices. This exemption from port rates in the ports of State ownership, as I said earlier, the exemption from the canon of use of hydraulic goods for the installations of continental aquaculture, the postponement of payment of social security quotas, in addition to avails and ICO loans that can also be jointed. Therefore, the Central Government has done its duty. Of course you can do more and we urge you, too, and we agree with many of the requests made by the Nationalist Block of Wales to the Central Government. The position of this parliamentary group on the application of the over-reduced type of VAT to marine and marine products is well known. And we are the only ones we want with our amendment is something that has also been voted on in the Commission, and it is that, once this European regulation on VAT tax rates is present and approved, that the Central Government should apply that over-reduced type to fish. But what we cannot ignore is that, beyond those measures that are asked by the central government on the very initiative that the Galician Nationalist Block today poses — some of which are already implemented, such as that exemption from port charges, the fact is that the Greek Government, with the importance of the fishing sector in our autonomous community, has room for manoeuvre, has funds; and it can of course articulate that line of direct aid which is now calling for the sector itself. The other day, of course, we would also be very concerned about the response given by the Sea Counsellor to the Galician Nationalist Block itself and also about the fact that I was just going to put that measure on the table from the exemption of port charges and the agility in the aid already granted. Agility that's supposed to have an autonomic administration already. Now, to say that, as a star measure to deal with the rise in the price of fuels in the fisheries sector, what the Government of Greece is going to do is to give it agility to the aid already granted, the truth is that it doesn't show much interest in the problem that is currently going through our sector. So we ask the Government of Greece again to articulate that plan of direct aid for the fisheries sector, which complements the hints that the central government already has on the table, that it does not listen to the fact that these two lines of aid are directly impacted. And that there is no need for the Greek Government to look either at the sector and that the sector itself is not asking for these measures. Because we're seeing how the National Federation of Brotherhood itself is asking all the autonomous communities to link this line of aids that other autonomous communities have already done. And that other autonomous communities have already in force that exemption from the payment of port charges in the ports of their competition. So here's what we're looking at is that many announcements by the president of the Galician board, many announcements by the Sea Council, but the only star measure to support the fishing sector is the exemption from port charges, but we see how today not even that measure, which is very small, is vigilant. We have also tabled — it is true that the President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia did not want to listen to the PSdeG's proposals — concrete proposals on fisheries, too, to deal with the situation that is living, for example, the conservation sector, also with that intensification, which it is now difficult to find a raw material such as that oil for sunflowers. But, of course, the Greek Government is not listening to the proposals made to it from the PSdeG. So what we are asking for is the commitment of the German Government to this sector, which is going wrong. And since we don't want to listen to this parliamentary group, what we're asking them to do is listen to the sector, which these last few days are asking for that line of help from the Sea Council itself. Well, they complement those aids that are already under way by the central government, and they learn a little from the central government, which also had to make their legislative changes. But the exemption from port charges in the ports of state ownership located in our autonomous community has already been applicable since March 31st.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u133	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u135	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, at this point, Mrs Otero and Mrs Pérez, we must clarify each one's position and actions on support for the sector. From the aid at every moment to a sector that only wants to not jeopardize its profitability, that all it wants is not to lose competitiveness and be able to work on equal terms for its colleagues from other countries. The work of the Galician Union cannot be equaled to that of the Government of Spain because it is totally different from the origin, motivation, effectiveness and immediacy. The price of fleet gas oil increases by 350% since the beginning of the pandemic and 86% since 1 January 2022; of course there are aggravated situations of war, but this was already a reality. The price of electricity and gas is also rising and industry pays 44% more this year, with a significant impact on the conservation industry, such as freezing and storage, cutting-edge and vital industries. Well, the German Government began working from the first moment of trouble to find solutions and — I insist — without the excuse of the war. And March 13 has already begun to work and publicly different measures have been announced, 15 days before the Government of Spain. And in those 15 days we advanced, those 15 days were eternal, those 15 days are a long time for a sector that is so threatened. So, as I said, the reactions are different in origin, motivation, effectiveness and immediacy. We have a passive government of the state and we have a government, in addition, that takes measures and decisions that make fishing worse in Galicia. And we have an active government that knows a lot about what's going on in Galicia. In short, on 13 March, the President of the Galician Council at the Conference of Presidents called for lower taxes on fuel, electricity and gas; and urgent measures to address the difficult situation in the fisheries sector. Germany, France, Belgium, Ireland, Poland, Portugal... the neighbouring countries, all had measures on the table and Spain had not yet. Spain, with all the passivity. Spain, on the back of the fishing sector. 16 March, the Council of the Sea met with representatives of the associated entities of the Greek fleet and agreed to demand a series of measures such as the discharge of the VAT of hydrocarbons, grant de minimis aid and flexibility of restrictions on the import of raw materials used by the processing sector, and ask Brussels for an annual flexibility in rates and quotas so that the quotas that cannot be consumed next year can be consumed by the strike of carriers and by the increase in hydrocarbons. Well, on March 17, the Board of Trustees put in place a plan of shock to alleviate the economic situation aggravated by the war; not as a source or as a cause of war, aggravated by war. With specific measures for fishing, compensation in the payments of port charges, which have also referred to by the two spokesmen who preceded me. And you yourself recognize that there is this processing and that the fees are welcome and will be increased to 100%, at the same level when it's done also from Ports of the State. The answer given by the Technical Secretary-General of the Council in the Commission itself is therefore worth all the effort. On 21 March, the councillor also maintains a meeting with representatives of the Confederation of the Sea Food Industry to assess the situation of the sector, and everyone agrees on one thing - on 21 March, he has not done anything yet - and everyone agrees on one thing, that the Central Government needs to take urgent action to deal with a situation that threatens the viability of many companies in the maritime-fishing sector. It was March 21st and we still had to wait eight days. You, Mrs Pérez, in this motion we are calling for a number of measures that we support, we are going to support this initiative, I am going to advance it, of course, but you cannot argue that the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia act, react or manage it the same way. Each one has its own powers, but it's clear that one has a totally passive attitude, and he's had it for fifteen days in which the Galician Union has been working hard on the hands of the sector. The truth is that the Union reacted and managed within its framework of competences, as I say, in front of a central government that waited, waited, waited and waited and only reacted under pressure, and sometimes even not that. Fifteen days later, as I said, on March 29th — a long wait for the sector, believe me, a long wait — the Council of Ministers approved a package of support for the fisheries sector, in Decree Law 6/2022 of March 29th, published in the BOE on March 30th. In its third chapter, reference is made to support measures for the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sector, from Article 33 to Article 40. It is EUR 430 million, a total of 87.14 for the fisheries sector, including EUR 50 million from the FEMPA funds. So there are 20.2 million euros left. 68 for extractive fishing, including the 50 FEMPA, that is, 18 million direct aids. 16 for fishermen depending on the average consumption made years before by the reduction of 20 cents per litre as for all citizens, there is no specific measure for the fisheries sector. And I'm talking about measures for the fishing sector across Spain. EUR 3 million for the exemption of port rates for fresh fishing and the canon of use of hydraulic or aquaculture facilities. So also a huge package of measures by the Government of Spain. So, please, a little more seriousness, besides, with the times and the performance of every government at every moment. Of course, since the Galician Union, as I've been working since before, a number of important demands have been made on the package of measures collected in that royal decree. And we can sum up in 5 measures. The first was to admit processing and marketing companies to aid under Article 26 of the FEMPA. They're not included, these companies aren't included. The second was a clarification of the inclusion of professional petrol for the fisheries sector as well, and that had a positive response, a positive clarification, and also an answer that is beneficial to the sector. The third was the application of the over-reduced EVI to fishery products, not covered by that royal decree or envisaged by the measures to be carried out by the Government of Spain. Fourthly, the temporary flexibility of regulatory measures in relation to the limitation of imports of raw materials. Don't include the preserve. For us this is crucial because the import of the preserve is fundamental. And the fifth, expanding the annual flexibility of fishing quotas. And nothing is known. That, as I say, those quotas could be used or could be used in the coming year given the difficulties that we have this year. Therefore, for us this royal decree is totally insufficient to achieve the goal of helping and seriously supporting the Galician fisheries sector, the sector as a whole. We know that Cepesca, that the National Federation of Fishermen's Brotherhood was disappointed with that real decree, among other things, because it didn't get the 35 cents reduction per litre of diesel, which was an exceptional measure for the fishing sector; as I said, I reached 20 cents like any other citizen. Nor the three-month exemption from social security quotas, only their approval. So those tricks that are under the little letter, we also know them and the sector knows them. We believe that the plan to support the marine-fishing sector announced by the Spanish Government in the face of the rise in the price of gas oil is late and insufficient. We consider it and we also have weight to say it and justify it. And we have no problem saying that because, as I say, our neighbours were faster, more agile and have other measures on the table that Spain does not contemplate. And in the face of this situation and since, in addition, Galicia's opposition, I'd like to make some reference to the groups that are in the opposition. The Galego Nationalist Block, which is the proponent group, made a previous demonstration asking for all the measures it presents today in this motion. But I think that in demonstrations and on the street, we can't or can't reach the agreements. Besides, it happens that Friday before the demonstration, the fuel was 0.89 a litre and the next Monday was 0.91. So much did not help, it was almost worse. On the other hand, they present a motion. But also in the 2008 gas oil crisis, when it's your turn to rule... because they ask a lot, but when it's their turn to rule, nothing. Because in the 2008 gas oil crisis, which was similar, they didn't do anything at all. And I have to remind them again not torpedo the initiatives we approved in Galicia and Brussels when they vote on the elimination of subsidies and fuel subsidies. So we also ask for some consistency from the German Nationalist Block. And the Socialist Party has to take note. Mrs. Otero, I see you take note and you have to take even more, and you have to pass those notes to the Government of Spain, your colleagues in Spain have to pass those notes to you. The engravings and energy costs are the responsibility of the central government, a government of the Socialist Party. And so they say that you have proposals, because I tell Mr Sanchez to make the proposals. Look, when they make the amendments to the budget of the Sea Council, for example this past year, they also want to bring to the market 19 million euros, which accounts for 47% of the funds. And it turns out that later on in your amendments and requests, you're always asking for the Board to increase these funds and support those sectors. Well then they don't coordinate what budget amendments are and then their intentions. And they have to solve the aggravation that has been given, that this is very important, that it is the bonus that does not apply to Spanish flag boats when they refuel in other countries even if they supply Spanish companies, while fishing vessels from other countries fined them in Spain. And this is an aggravation, it's unfair and it's in real inequality of conditions. Because you know that the ships of the Great Sun and the Indian and Pacific seas that have to refuel in other countries don't receive gas oil. This is of a gravity and of a very high importance to the Greek fishermen. So you have to fix it by the government of Sánchez. Well, I'm done, president, talking about the board road map. What is the Merge path? Well, in the long run, in the middle and in the short. In the long term, working on the progressive decarbonization of the sector by adapting uptakeable ships in price and technology. Galicia has to move forward in a carbon neutral food production, we all know. In the medium term, meet energy efficiency measures to streamline the use of fuel and adjust its consumption. From 2016 to 2021, 89 files have been handled in this field...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u137	...with a public investment of 9 million euros. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. And in the short term, demand an additional effort to use all possible funds in the wake of the declaration of the exceptional situation, especially of the FEMPA, which are not spent, and the answer is positive and so that will be achieved in the short term. This is work, this is accounting. If there is action, there is a roadmap by the Board, but now it is up to the Government of Spain to move chips also to help the fishing sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u139	We will therefore support this initiative. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u140	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u141	Thank you, President. Mrs. Egerique, we share with you, because it is obvious, that when there are no arguments, you have to fill out the interventions with obviousness, as you have just done. We share with you that, indeed, the Government of the State has a certain competency framework and the Government of the United States has another. [[Murmurs.]] Sure, he's got another one. So, the Government of the Union, within its own powers and within the budgets it has unilaterally approved in this House for 13 years, can take complementary measures, precisely those of the Government of the State. Of course, but here it turns out that the board's competitive framework is going to compensate for port charges, and it talks about two months, at least two months. From there we'll see. The powers of the Union, according to which they themselves have approved, are to speed up the aid already granted. And the competitive framework of the Union is going to intensify the promotion campaign for products from the sea, Galicia knows the sea, for the further development of the advisor, who is promoting the products from the sea all over the world. Of course, then, are those the skills of the German Government? Or can you really -- you don't, the German Government -- put in place measures and acts of direct aid complementary to those of the State Government, and they're not doing so, and also, as the Secretary-General himself said in the Commission, they're not going to do that either? Because you say they're dealing with the state government. But what kind of argument is that? So, the rest of the autonomous communities -- I insist -- which, compared to ours, have just a fishing fleet, don't you think they're colliding with the central government's measures? Mrs. Egerique, as I say, we have to fill out the speech and so much we have to fill it up that we go back, we go back, we go back and we actually give the budgets. And you now say here, in this speech that you have just given to us, you say that the opposition groups, that in the budget amendments they propose questions and then we propose others who collide — here yes — with what we propose in the amendments. Of course, we might be contradicting ourselves at some point, but it's just that you when you made the budgets, which, I insist, unilaterally approved, already had on the data table. Because December inflation was more than 6%, which had to take them forward and provide for certain measures. In short, Mr President, because I want to dedicate, of course, a sentence to the amendment of the PSOE, in short, as I said earlier in the first intervention and now I have just confirmed it with that roadmap which has just exposed us to truth, because now all are roadmaps, because the roadmap of the People's Party is to continue demanding, demanding, urgenting and everything else, but, of course, without supplementing with direct aid from the Autonomous Community that are already in the way of the Central Government. That I've already said in my first intervention that they're late and that they're insufficient. If, above all, you recognize that, you don't complement them, then you're leaving that help again to a key sector for our economy, which is also demanding it through the Federation of Brotherhoods. As for the amendment of the PSOE, we're going to see, Mrs. Otero, most of the things you collect here are the same as we collected but drafted differently. Unless, in fact, the last point, where you talk about a 35-cent fuel litre bonus, and we're talking about meeting, as the sector asks, in 40 we're talking about the fuel litre. So at that last point we couldn't agree. In the rest, because it is the same but with another wording and, in principle, as it says and is not contributing anything more, we understand that we cannot accept it. Nothing else. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, on the policy of the Galician Union to mitigate the incidence, in homes with less economic resources, of housing costs as a result of the war in Ukraine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u143	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Alexandra Fernández Gómez, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this motion: Amendment of amendment: "In point 2 of addition after: "Increasing", the following text: "up to threefold". In this way this section would begin like this: "2o. Increase up to at least three times the social emergency aid from Galicia's board..." Addendum Amendment In point 8 the following text is added at the end: "So, they will incorporate a higher redistributive criterion in the distribution of funds, ensuring that they are accessible to lower incomes."Additional amendment: Add three new points after the 9th with the following text: "10o. Facilitate access to housing by means of a set of measures that contribute to the constant escalation of free housing prices, adapted to the real estate and socio-economic context of Greece. These should include: an empty housing mobilization strategy towards accessible rental, tax imposition measures on the empty housing according to the accumulated property, purchase by the empty housing administrations for their incorporation into the public housing park and specific measures to control prices in certain tense areas, after the study and diagnosis, detailed and territorialized, of price and causes variations in the Greek urban system.11o. To establish an IGVS housing protection programme, which provides greater legal coverage, support and counselling in the face of situations of abuse committed by some owners.12°. To agree between the Board, State and SAREB the transfer of buildings in the hands of this entity to the public park of the IGVS."]] To formulate the motion, Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u144	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the German Parliament. The motion brought by the Socialist Parliamentary Group sets out the need to give an impetus to housing policies, social coverage policies, ultimately, to address the need and urgency to set up a social protection shield in the face of the new economic situation, including a housing shield. And we have to do it because the housing policies of the Galician Union were a fiasco after 13 years of Mr. Feijóo's government. A capitalised fiasco in protective dwellings, in rented houses, in matters of aid to families with more needs. The suspension is notorious, and now, when we see that the new international situation has a very unfavorable context, it is necessary for the Government of Galicia and the next President of the Galician Union to reverse the failure, the fiasco that Mr. Feijóo has represented in housing policies and family support policies for a decent housing over these thirteen years. We need a housing shield and we have to build it as a part of a social shield that is fundamental. The other day we show here, in the appeal to the advisor, the fiasco of the housing policies of the People's Party, and I want to remember that there are two data that can reflect it very clearly. One is that the great announcement that you make right now is that there are 76 new homes for vulnerable families, 76 throughout Galicia, and for that there is a councillor, for that there is an address, for that there are public funds? It is that throughout all the years of Mr Feijóo's government the evolution of protected dwellings in Galicia has fallen steadily, with worrying and alarming data. If we see it, for example, in finished dwellings we see how they evolved, since 2011, to ever smaller numbers, which have come to realize that the number of protected homes made throughout Galicia in 2015 was two dwellings, in 2016, 139, in 2017, in 2018, 8, in 2019, in 4, and that now, with a different government in Spain, which has a state housing programme, which puts finalist funds to make a new housing policy worthy, when the Government of Galicia has to follow these instructions, since they do not like, what they do not want and who does not know how to do, we have to tell you that they have to change housing policies at such a complex time for citizenship, after the fiasco that represented 13 years of government of Mr. Feijóo. Because, in the face of the abandonment of the housing policy of the People's Party, the Government of Spain, the current Government, dedicates to Galicia EUR 350 million for housing, which are the directors of the Council and which, whenever the People's Party announces something, is what the Government of Spain approves with the votes of progress in the Congress of Members. These, which you don't like at all, are the ones that allow these funds to come up and there's a policy that allows you to develop the Bono Juve for rent, the rehabilitation of housing or the social rent. [[Applause]] And so it's the moment you don't come up with that small, small-letter announcement of six million euros that you're going to dedicate to our country's families who have housing problems, to increase that thermal social bonus by 100 euros. Six million euros, at the most complex moment, can't be! And they have to change it at a time when, in addition, since the appearance occurred through the counsellor's questioning to this day, there have to be changes in value. And I would like to say it clearly, because it has just taken a step in Europe, in the European Commission, which is a fundamental step towards the price of gas intended to generate electricity in the markets of the Iberian peninsula. It is a transcendental change, a commitment to which we are moving, and a new plan is being agreed with Brussels that should allow the price of light to be lowered in the near future. This agreement is important, an agreement that will allow us to have an interval of between 40 and 60 euros in the next 12 months to reduce the price of light. And, therefore, the European Commission will approve limiting the price of gas to generate electricity at EUR 50 as an average price, between 40 and 60, over the next 12 months, so that this megavat/hour at reference price will reduce the cost of electricity and basic supplies. That changed in Spain and Europe from the last appearance to today. And also, in these days, we've just seen how the Government of Spain approves a change in the electric social bond that allows us to raise the income limits to enjoy the electric social bond. We strengthen the social electric bond to reach more citizens, to more citizens with vulnerable status, also in Galicia, and to incorporate, also directly, the 20,500 people with minimum vital income in Galicia, which can now be incorporated into the social electric bond. These are the housing-building policies, housing-building policies, social bond, reaching families and new people, cost-stricken people, which has to be developed because there's a government of progress that does so. But I want to know what the People's Party in Galicia thinks and Mr. Feijóo, and who's going to be his successor. Are you going to make the Government of Galicia a policy to complement the State Housing Plan by putting funds, measures and support, or will you simply follow with your fallen arms without having any housing policy, renting housing, and also helping vulnerable families to cover basic supplies? It can't be, and it can't be that we have a government away. I'm telling you that in a few weeks there have been two substantial changes, one in Europe, agreed today, and one from the Government of Spain, which through the change of multiplier coefficients will allow many more families the right to join the electric social bond. And if you see the figures, they're very eloquent about how they got funds and how the Government of Galician Union did no more. And that's why we put forward a motion to give a boost to housing policies, social protection policies, to build a housing shield that protects people in more vulnerable situations. A shield of housing protection and fighting energy poverty that involves ensuring a decent housing, for housing costs, electricity, gas, other basic supplies, developing all the measures taken by the Government of Spain, but also complementing them and complementing them here in Galicia. For example, in the state electric social bond, which, while the government of the state has just changed so that it reaches more vulnerable families, the Government of the Union can do more, it can complement it. Or when we talk about social emergency aid for basic housing supplies, the thermal conditions in the home, you can also extend the shares for the thermal social bonus to more families, and you have to do so. They have funds at the Galician Union to allow the electric social bond to reach more people and the thermal social bond to reach more people. And also to get more people with more counts. But in addition, it is also necessary, thirdly, to extend aid to the expenses of renters in homes. Measures must be taken in Galicia appropriate to our reality, to complement the State Housing Plan. Because you don't put a euro, you get the finalist funds from the state government, but the Galician Union doesn't put a euro. If there weren't the State Housing Plan, there wouldn't be a single measure of the Government of Galician Unity to promote decent housing in our country. And in view of that, you can do more things. Fourthly, we also need to approve a programme of aid for youth emancipation, for those under 35 years of age, complementing the state rental bonus, which allows them to arrive in Galicia each year, this year next year, eleven million euros to help emancipate our country's young and girls. That's the government's commitment to the progress you don't like. But what does the Government of Galician Union do that doesn't put a euro to help young people in that emancipation policy? In addition, there is also the need to strengthen, in the face of new circumstances of prices and economic devaluation, the right to housing to groups with more difficulties, for example, women victims of macho violence, which, in an overall context of greater complication of purchasing power, may require a reinforcement of existing programmes. And we also have to take steps to prevent the right to housing from suffering a setback in the face of the evolution of the new circumstances in the basic supply cuts due to economic causes. Objectively, this guarantee must be given to the Greek families. In addition, we need to develop a rental social housing program. It can't be said in a serious way that the Government of the United States is taking out 76 and a protected housing program that leaves behind the unfortunate data that has existed. There are also necessary measures - they are in the motion gathered - for housing rehabilitation, complementing finalist funds in state programmes, which will allow 20,000 more rehabilitation housing and which can be complemented and adapted here. In short, there's a Government of Galician Unity who has to tell the Greeks and the Greeks if he's going to do something about the decent housing of our people. If you are or prefer to stay away. If Mr. Feijóo will leave the worst inheritance in protected housing policy in Galicia, and if his successor will continue to approve that in consecutive years the number of protected dwellings in Galicia was 8, 9, 4 or 2. They'll just go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u146	...by standing behind the leadership of the Galician Union in housing policy or if the People's Party, at that congress you announced to us here today that it will be so successful, they'll give you a boost. And we want to tell you to do so for the sake of Galicia, which is necessary at this time of difficulty having empathy and the ability to build a dignified housing policy that does not leave anyone behind. That is also our commitment, and for that you will, of course, have the tender hand of the Socialist Party and of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u147	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u148	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. This is a rather collage initiative, because it covers very diverse and very broad topics. The title, in fact, refers to policies to mitigate the impact on housing expenses as a result of the Ukrainian war, although then in the resolution proposals of a very different nature are agglomerated, such as the issue of rising supply prices, or the increase in housing prices, housing aid, rehabilitation aid, etc. So I'm going to try to sort out in my speech the two big issues that are being dealt with, especially in the resolution. On the one hand, there is the issue of housing prices and the problem of accessibility, and on the other, it is the issue that has to do with the whole cost of housing-related supplies. And I think it's important to also make this separation of themes, because the causes of rising prices in one case and another have nothing to do with it. On the one hand, the question of the current increase in housing prices in rent has its roots in a post-crisis situation in 2008, where the market is reconfigured. And here they influenced several factors, such as, for example, the demand for a lower exposure by financial entities to the fluctuations of the brick; a greater difficulty on the part of families for indebtedness and savings; and, in addition, a high profitability of rent income compared to other financial products. On the other hand, it is the question of supply costs, especially the issue of energy prices, which is linked to a system of perverse pricing and which is now aggravated by the current international environment. So these two aspects, housing and supplies, have different causes and require solutions of a different nature. We believe that the ideal would be, in our view, not so much to bring together joint solutions to very diverse problems on the pretext of the Ukrainian war, but to propose solutions for each of these major issues, addressing from a structural point of view. By entering the first question, which is the price of housing and the problem of accessibility, I'm not going to insist on figures because we all know that there is an increase in prices, much above wages. We also know that it has also increased the number of people who access the housing by rent, because there are more precarious jobs and fewer people who can access it by buying. And, therefore, the increase in rental prices is affecting more units of coexistence every day; and, in particular, it is affecting certain collectives such as youth or women. And we are all aware of this crisis of accessibility in housing, because rising prices — as I say — is not from now on, it is a crisis that has been in the last decade. And the 13-year-old People's Party did not take a single measure to address this price crisis; its legacy, in fact, is the most absolute inaction. The situation that leaves the Government of Feijóo in this matter is also dramatic. They let the prices rise while they left the families that can't cope with the payments. There's no public housing, there's no help for these people, even the People's Party in the middle of the pandemic has left without summoning the help to rent the housing and even the help to rent the young people as well. I mean, every time I hear Feijóo say that if you boast about the management of the pandemic, I always remember how can you be proud to have left without help to rent to thousands of families in this country in the middle of the pandemic? [[Applause]] But the situation is a sum and it goes on, because when the percentage of families at risk of poverty or social exclusion today reaches 25%, when there are more than 38,000 people in this situation last year, the Galician Union continues to maintain the aid of missing rent, without convening. This is the reality. At the moment, Junta has paralysed the call for State Housing Plan aid, so that a person in a poverty situation cannot currently opt for these aid for the payment of the rent. And as a result of all these policies of inaction, lack of aid, lack of public housing, there were 1,294 families last year who ended up being defeated, last year. And Junta systematically sells that this is a reality that doesn't exist because all those people who are defeated are supposed to have a social rent bonus. But reality is quite different, in 2020 it barely covered that bond to 174 families, and an initial loan of EUR 1 million was executed half. Last year, more than that, a third of the budget was not executed, why? Because the bases of that program are made to make access difficult, so people can't accommodate that program. I wonder: "No one in the Union asks the question of how can there be more than 1,200 families left on the street last year, and yet there are only 300 families who chose that social rent bonus that is supposed to be for people who have been defeated?" Why are there hundreds of people who don't access that bond? And I'm sure the spokesperson for the People's Party will make deaf ears, come here later and say: everything goes perfect because we have a social rent bonus. No, what they have is a marketing strategy that's useful for you to get up here and say, we've arranged, we've got some help. But the reality is that people don't opt for them because the bases are made so that people can't accommodate themselves. You probably, spokesperson for the People's Party, because you will come here again to repeat the same mantra, demonstrating total insensitivity. And in the face of this conscious inaction of the Union, we agree, indeed, with the spirit of this initiative, to call for urgent measures, because the Council of Galicia has the capacity and competence to develop its own housing policy and must exercise them. And we agree, of course, with the need to increase rent aid with our own funds, as we have already moved here on several occasions. You have to increase as much as you have to do with the help and the profiles that are covered as you count them. And all these aid measures are very necessary in a context of inflation and with a public administration without public housing available. But we also miss this initiative that addresses the root problem, that is, we are looking for measures to curb the rental price bubble. That is why we propose adding to the text a set of measures aimed at achieving a cooling of the price of housing on the free market. They are concrete measures such as setting up an empty housing mobilization strategy, the public administration's purchase of empty housing to incorporate it into the public park, price control measures in certain areas, etc. Because the rental aid proposed in this initiative is necessary as an immediate response, but the solution cannot consist solely of continuing to subsidise permanently and with public money the continued increase in prices. And from the BNG we believe that structural measures must also be driven further. As for the second block of measures, which is what it has to do with the issue of supply costs, as in housing policy, the Union here also has the capacity to economically complement aid programmes to avoid supply cuts, both in terms of the social electric bond and the thermal social bond. And here it seems that only the Galician Union has been remembered now that it has that possibility, that it had the possibility of enabling aid, and it announced 6.6 million euros to complement the thermal social bond. A figure that is in all respects insufficient when in Galicia there are 700,000 people in poverty or residential exclusion, and more than 44,000 homes are in situations of severe material shortage. The original initiative of the Socialist Group proposes to increase this content, which we share, but the text does not specify any figures. From BNG we calculated that, at least, the board should triple the amount of this supplement up to 26 million, to ensure real coverage. That's also one of the amendments we made. Finally, this proposal by the Socialist Group is aimed, on the one hand, at calling for measures to be taken by the Government of the Union — what is needed — but also at praising in some way — as we have also seen in the intervention — the action of the Central Government on these matters. And I think I'd also meet a certain critical perspective here with the current Central Government performance, because I could do a lot more than you're doing. As far as housing is concerned, for example, the State Housing Law should serve to establish a right to housing guarantee floor; but, as it is now, it is a little ambitious and limited law. Let us not address such important issues as the answers, precisely, which governments must give to the challenge. Nor does it establish mechanisms for compulsory housing guarantees or for greater demands on housing owners. However, and a little inexplicably, it leaves this unaddressed, but it does fall into detailed definitions of measures that belong to the autonomous communities to define. So there's a lot to improve in that law. Another point that should be focused on the central government is about what's going on with Sareb, which is very serious. The central government continues to breach its commitment to transfer the real estate to the public park of the autonomous communities. But it's just that, in recent times, Sareb has started a campaign of harassment against tenants, tenants who pay their rents in order. There's a harassment on the part of Sareb and in Galicia we have a lot of these cases. And following this very lack of social perspective that the central government prints on this capital, because we have some amazing news and the government has just handed the management of Sareb's assets to two foreign investment funds. Nothing but the Blackstone and KKR investment funds, which are remaining investment funds known for the aggressiveness of their modus operandi with tenants. So we accumulate one more black chapter in the story of Sareb's scam, and that's why we also incorporate in our amendment a point requesting a definitive agreement between the Union, the Central Government and the Sareb for the management of those immovables and those considered to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u150	...adequate by the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. Because the structural shortage of public housing park has here, on the question of the heritage that accumulates Sareb, a first quick solution and that we have paid for it for some time. The Union has everything to do, but the central government also accumulates pending tasks. In any case — it's over now — the debate today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u152	...is essentially about the role of the Union in this situation. And what is clear is that the Galician Union does not, at this moment, assure the Greeks and the Greeks of the minimum conditions for life: a roof, lock the heating, have water. The most essential thing to live has to be guaranteed by a government and to achieve it only requires will. Finally, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we agree with the general spirit of the need for social coverage on the part of the Union. But we also believe that the text is better than the creation of proposals, the incorporation of measures of a more structural nature...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u154	...and measures requiring joint commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u156	...of Together and State.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u158	We are waiting for the agreement with the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u159	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Freire Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u160	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Fiasco, no, Mr. Knight, poisoned inheritance. Poisoned inheritance was the housing policy of the bipartisan, PSOE's board and BNG, breaking the Gestures and leaving a debt of more than 260 million euros that had to pay for the next PP Government and the Welsh and Welsh over the next ten years. That was a real poisoned inheritance. [[Applause]] And I honestly don't know what the purpose of this Socialist Party motion is, if it's for Mr. Caballero to regain parliamentary activity, if it's to try to cover up the central government's incompetence in housing and economic policy, or if it's to advertise the Government of Pedro Sánchez to which it is pure demagogy. Without a doubt, we are living in a complicated situation, a complicated situation affecting the whole of citizenship, which requires decisions by all public administrations, each within the scope of their competences, to help the productive fabric and families who have difficulty in dealing with their bills. Of course, the war in Russia's invasion of Ukraine has aggravated the crisis we are suffering from, but the situation has already come before. There are some indicators: the erratic policy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which I did not know how to respond to problems; an irresponsible energy policy; the unabated increase in electricity, gas, fuel, which affects materials, supplies and even the basket of purchase. And what is a reality, which the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, has done was to increase inflation in Spain by 40% in relation to the partners of the European Union. The central government has not been able nor is it able to respond to the economic impact that citizens are suffering, which have to cope with the unabated energy prices, among others. As regards housing, it is unable to implement the State Housing Plan 2022-2025. We're in April -- and in a few days in May -- and it still can't be executed, why? Because of the big managers of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. As regards economic policy, it is also not capable of taking any measures to minimize the socio-economic consequences that the country is suffering from. If we take measures in Galicia within the scope of our powers, and we demand that the Central Government also take measures. Measures to reduce taxes on electricity, gas, gasoline and diesel; to rectify energy policy by placing a planned, proportionate and fair transition in line with the commitment reached at the Palma Conference of Presidents. In the past plenary we adopted here a non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group which included 28 measures — I don't know if you were here, Mr. Caballero — 14 measures addressed to the Government of Spain and 14 others addressed to the Union, to deal with the inflationist crisis and the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine. A set of measures to be taken quickly that respond to people's needs, which are coming to strengthen those already adopted by the Galician Union in its government councils. We approved 28 measures, 14 to sue the Government of the State and 14 to sue the Joint Action proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group and which were not supported by the Socialist Party and the BNG, despite the fact that they are concerned about the situation of the people. And now they come here to demand measures that the Galician Union already has in place, like, for example, points 1 and 2 of its motion. Some things need to be remembered: Galicia was a pioneering autonomous community with the launch of the electric ticket in 2014, followed by the help to avoid supply cuts in 2016. Galicia was once again a pioneering autonomous community in 2017 with the approval of the Energy Efficiency Act and the guarantee of access to electricity. It's the first to complement the state's social bond through the Greek electric bond since 2018. Tips that are open and that have an initial budget this year of 1.9 million euros, and expandable if necessary. And the German Government has already put in place a package of measures to alleviate the price rise, including the activation of the thermal social bond to help households cope with the costs, with an investment of 13.1 million euros directed to more than 60,000 vulnerable homes. A direct income of between EUR 250 and EUR 425 on behalf of the beneficiary families; an extraordinary supplement of EUR 100 to strengthen the content of the thermal social bond, enabling additional funds of EUR 6.6 million, thus raising the total investment to this measure to EUR 19.7 million. And the central government pays zero, Mr. Knight. In addition, the German Government has an energy saving plan for the Greek households with over 25 million euros, which aims to alleviate the impact that rising energy and fuel prices are having on the family economy. As for the remaining points of his motion on housing, it indicates an absolute ignorance of the reality of the European state funds in this matter. As indicated by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, the Galician Board is going to devote around 26 million euros this year to direct aid for the payment of rent: 12.7 million euros for the call of the rental aid for the whole population; in 2023, 11.2 million euros; 2.1 million euros for the social lease bond, which has already been published a call in December and 1.6 million more, social rental bonus covering 100% of the cost of income; social rental bonus for victims of gender violence, to meet their needs and their families. The join line is open. There is also delay in the line that depends on the State Covenant against Gender Violence; in the line that depends on the Central Government, Mr. Knight, it is truly regrettable. And EUR 11.4 million for the rental bonus for young people for this population sector, in 2023 the same amount. In addition, there are other actions aimed at offering rent housing to people who need it most. A affordable rental ranging from 50 to 200 euros. The total number of public promotion homes, public promotion of new construction, recovered that are repaired and re-adjudicated in rent, houses rehabilitated by the municipalities, and all intended for social housing and intended for rent. Having said this, what is needed and urgent is that the Government of Spain, the Central Government, will once and for all end the hesitations around the planned and announced housing programs, which cannot be launched by the only incompetence of the Central Government, which is unable to activate the plan, transfer funds and sign the agreement so that it can be executed. Additional measures are proposed to the rental bonus for young people, when the bond is not yet running. We've been late since the announcement for seven months, and the Ministry is still studying the possibility of modifying the actual decree. A media release or April 22nd: "No trace of the young bonus for rent half a year after his announcement concerning the Government of Pedro Sánchez". This is the reality, it is called for the proper development of rehabilitation programmes financed from European funds - I suppose it will be a mistake, because it is not state funds, it is European funds, Mr Caballero -. The reality is that the Government has been making changes to the instructions for its application for months. In any case, Galicia has already published the calls for two lines of rehabilitation aid funded from European funds, and will soon publish the other three. It is also claimed in the motion that the Galician Union complements with its own funds the resources that the Central Government sends to Galicia within the framework of the Housing Plan. This, well, also another absolute ignorance of the approved housing plan, because it is established that autonomous communities will fund the housing plan by 30%. By the way, Mr. Caballero, in the previous state plan of the People's Party Government, the participation of the State was superior to this plan of housing of the Government of the Socialist Party. In any case, the reality is that the Housing Plan agreement between the Central Government and the Galician Union is still pending signature, pending transfer of funds to proceed to the summons and can be executed. It should be noted that part of the government's support lines on the housing plan have existed in Galicia for years now, created by the Galician Union. And, among them, programs aimed at victims of gender-based violence, persons affected by evictions — both for mortgage and rent-, public promotion housing, the management of Sareb's housing, as well as private financial institutions or the management of private-owned empty housing. In many cases the help of the Housing Plan is mere copies of the existing ones in Galicia, although with fewer benefits and limitations that will hardly make them attractive to potential beneficiaries. In this situation of impossibility, to put in place the State Housing Plan, because of the Central Government, because of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, it is incomprehensible that the Government delegate in Galicia and the Ministry's high offices are dedicated to going through the autonomous community talking about aids that do not yet exist, and disseminating incorrect information about them; so that all they can do is confuse citizens and cause their anger when they find that they cannot access the aid disseminated by the Government's representatives. As for the amendment tabled by BNG, it seems that Mrs Fernández is afraid that the Podemos Housing Act will not be approved because it introduces here penalizing measures, interventionist measures, which include the text: the increase in VAT and price control, which we have already said and we argue that we do not agree with. And then, Mrs. Fernández, when one mantra falls, he takes another and keeps making it up. Because, of course, you dare say here, from this rostrum, that during the pandemic the German Government did not attend the renting aid during this situation, really, it is incredible that you have similar boldness. Not only were the aid activated, but the aid expanded. That's the reality, Mrs Fernández. By the way, BNG, a party that proclaims itself a nationalist and has supported the State House Law in Congress, despite being unconstitutional and which searches our Statute of Self-Government. And finished...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u162	...in relation to the Sareb agreement, which also refers to the Socialist Party's motion and the amendment of the BNG. He knows that the Galician Union has an agreement with this entity since 2015, and here the Central Government has no trace as well. The State's participation in Sareb allows it to act and, however, instead of dedicating real estate to social housing, what it's doing is selling housing. Forgetting, like, the promise that Pedro Sánchez made to use these real estates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u164	...the social housing. And another headline: "No trace of Sánchez's promise of the 10,000 social housing of the Sareb." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group. Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I am grateful for the intervention of the various parliamentary groups. And, of course, I want to point out that this is a motion that is positive for the Greeks and for the Greeks. That it fully proposes what involves a housing shield for Greek citizenship and that it involves meeting from rent prices to protected housing construction, as well as expanding the shares and number of perceived electric social bond, thermal bond and also the treatment of specific sectors that may have greater difficulties. This is a positive motion. I get puzzled when I hear the People's Party. I'm puzzled because it says the People's Party that assumed an poisoned inheritance, and at the bottom they're recognizing the failure of all Mr. Feijóo's housing policies for 13 years: we did it very wrong but it was the Government's fault from 2005 to 2009; they spent 13 years and we couldn't fix it, but they left us an poisoned inheritance. Do you not have the political decency of supporting a dignified housing policy in Galicia when there are so many difficulties for so many people in the country? Can't you leave Mr. Feijóo's liberalism, Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Aznar's free housing policy to defend the people who are going through it? [[Applause]] How can it be said that the proposal made by this Member is pure demagogy? [[Applause]] Does not the spokesperson of the People's Party know that in the year 2021 — the year that has just ended — the Galician Union received EUR 98 million to make housing policies? EUR 67 million for rehabilitation, EUR 29 million for the construction of housing for social rent, EUR 1.5 million for protocols with municipalities. That you've also received a number of games that you've dedicated to public administration infrastructure, over 100 million euros. That the State Housing Plan involves the mobilization of EUR 350 million of housing policies for Galicia. And those are numbers, they're accounts, they're the funds that you announce so many things in the media, and that they do because there's a government in Spain that programs, writes, writes, writes, approves the Congress of Deputies and sets funds to do everything you don't want or are going to do, because there wouldn't be any housing policy. Is the Galician People's Party against a social lease bonus, a support bonus for young people in Galicia that will allow 11.4 million every year that there are many thousands of citizens who can have an emancipation? Are you against it? Of course, I get puzzled when I hear some questions. Because in the face of a Government of Spain who has currently transferred Galicia EUR 350 million to housing policies, Mr Feijóo's balance sheet is the balance of killing protected housing. It's the balance of leaving without running 400 million euros in protected housing throughout its years of government. It's the balance of having the community with the lowest percentage of protected housing from all over Spain, because you're the ones from free housing, and those from free housing are the ones that allow those who have a lot of housing, and those who don't have much more difficulty. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You like that free housing, which is the home of the ballast that is given in the Community of Madrid, the ballast that allows you to buy large mansions through all those corrupt strategies of the friends of the People's Party who were enriched in times of the pandemic. That's the free house that built Aznar for so many years and left so many people defenseless. [[Applause]] It is time to change Mr Feijóo's 13-year-old fiasco in housing policy. It's time to have empathy, sensitivity, the ability to connect with so many Welsh people who are going through it very badly. And instead of going against the progress measures in the Congress of Deputies, in the Galician Parliament, in the confrontation of the People's Party, you are putting yourself in support of the positive measures for the Greeks that you do not take because you do not want to, but that others adopt them and give you the funds so that they can execute them. And we want them, in addition to doing that, to do more, because I find it very good that the voice of the People's Party seems scarce and late for the rental bonus for young people. But the Galician People's Party could approve whenever it wants an emancipation plan for Galician boys because there are funds to do so, because there are competences and because there are thousands of young Greeks who can't leave the house and have a home in which to live independently by economic situations after 13 years of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo governments. Change and change that kind of approach! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We assumed the amendment with a transaction made by the Galician Nationalist Block. And we think it's time to do the best things and do the best things is to recognize that if Galicia left without running 400 million euros at home, if Galicia has the lowest protected housing percentage of all Spain, that if Galicia there was no impulse, now it can be done. And what Mr. Feijóo didn't do, I hope that the new president of the board would be willing to do and build it by a better Galicia instead of a Galician where when the PP doesn't prefer to escape his responsibilities and throw balloons out. Gobernen Galicia! Mr. Rueda, I also want to tell you that this is also the challenge you have, to improve everything that Mr. Feijóo's 13 years has been the worst in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u168	And let's hope they do so with all the votes of the People's Party and with the collaboration of the whole country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. Motions vote Once the debates on these motions have been finished, we proceed to vote. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, initiative by Ms Olalla Rodil. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I first told the deputy secretary that she wanted to make a point-by-point motion, separating the last point. Accept it? Let us then vote, firstly, on the last point of this motion. We vote. First, the last, what we separate, the last. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's something that looks like a contradiction, but it has to be like that. It's more comfortable. [[Murmurs.]] Vote for the last point of the G.P. Motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the transfer of minimum vital income The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u172	Let us now vote on the remaining points of the motion. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, less the last point, already voted, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the transfer of the minimum vital income We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These motion points are therefore rejected as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u173	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, initiative by Ms Rosana Pérez Fernández. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, yeah? [[Mrs. Otero Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept it? So we vote points 1 and 2. One and two, we vote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But he's asking to separate points 1 and 2, right? Oh, he's only got two points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, sorry. So you want to separate point 1 first and then point 2. Okay. Then we have to make two votes. Let us first vote on point 1. We vote. Vote on point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the situation of the fisheries sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u174	We now vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the situation of the fisheries sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This point was therefore also adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u175	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Caballero. There's a transaction. Do you know the transaction? Well, then we voted for that transaction. I don't read it because it's too long, if you all know it... we vote. [[Murmurs.]] Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, on the policy of the Union of Galicia to mitigate the incidence, in homes with less economic resources, of housing costs as a result of the war of Ukraine The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u176	We move on to agenda item 5, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Government of Spain to initiate the process of reviewing the reducing coefficients of workers and workers of the sea and adapting them to the current circumstances of the fleet and of the maritime-fishing, seafood and aquaculture activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u177	There are no amendments, and to formulate this non-law proposition Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party of Galicia, a political formation that underpins the action of the Government of the Union and which has obtained absolute majority in the last four autonomous electoral appointments, a circumstance in which it was a determining factor in the confidence of the blue Galician, the blue Galician, and the fishing professionals, the shellfish and the Galician aquaculture, in its electoral program, posed an ambitious strategic line of support and impulse to the main demands of the sea and the Greek seafood. This commitment, endorsed by citizenship, we continue to realize today this and other initiatives by the popular Greeks, aimed at improving labour and social conditions, improving day by day for men and women of the sea, who are and will continue to be a priority for us in the future. And today we want to talk about the reducing coefficients of retirement age. As you know for sure, the current legal system in Spain envisages the possibility that sea workers and other collectives receive a retirement pension before they reach the age of 65, and that is before they meet the minimum retirement age required for the general social security regime. This possibility of delaying retirement age is not a whimsical benefit or an unfair privilege. On the contrary, it is the legal recognition and fair recognition of workers who, as is the case in other sectors, carry on their professional life activities of a particularly painful or unhealthy nature, or who obliges them to continue to separate family or to move away from their homes. As a result, the minimum age at which some workers in the Mmr special scheme have the right to receive a retirement pension is 55 years. The activities to which the reduction coefficients in the sector apply, for example, in the Merchant Sea, are to the work carried out on board ships intended for the transport of goods and passengers, oceanographic research vessels and fisheries; rescue vessels and fight against pollution and in hospital searches, in this case of the ISM. Works carried out on oil and gas platforms as well as those carried out on inland port traffic vessels are also included. In maritime fishing, the work carried out on board vessels engaged in commercial maritime fishing and in any of its modalities. In ports, all summer activities and discards carried out by port stairwells. In marqueo, the marqueo activities, collected from senses and algae, which determine the setting in group 3 of the contribution of the special regime of mr, including the group of walkers. Having said that, the request we make to the people on this initiative is to ask the Central Government to review and update the reduction coefficients for professionals at sea. The current regulations are obsolete. It does not properly envisage or take up the substantial changes that have changed the circumstances in which professional activity in the maritime-fishing field has developed in recent years. So much so that we need to review this regulation because there are situations of serious inconsistencies between the actual fishing practice and the one covered by the regulation itself. There are anachronisms such as, for example, the presence of whale ships; comparative agravations, for two vessels in the same wharf and fishing with the same art may have different reducing coefficients; or also differences between seafarers on foot from the professionals of the seafood to the fleet. And finally, the collective beneficiaries of the reduction coefficients must be extended to other professionals, such as the ramparts, the divers or the coastguards of Galicia, which today are excluded from the reduction coefficients. We must seek greater equity in the retirement rights of our seamen and professionals. They are already aware that there is already some consensus on this issue. This same agreement, which we have now brought to the plenary, was adopted unanimously, by the People's Group and by the vote in favour of all political forces, in the 8th Committee on Fisheries and Marisqueo, of 15 February 2022. I mean, something over two months ago. However, we have to tell you that the petition remains of full urgency and is fully in force. Let's bring her back why? First, there are some groups that want to give preference to some public administration collectives over others. And for us, for the People's Group, the review must be more general and include all the collectives in a sector that today are excluded from the reducing coefficients. We bring it in, secondly, because Moncloa continues to fail to meet the agreement. They speak of bubbling and the Socialist Party votes in favour of our initiatives, but then they deny bread and salt to the fishing sector. Let me just give you two recent examples. April 6, 2022, Newspaper of Pontevedra: "Indignation between redesirs for him not to retire before. Networking associations and, in general, fishing women, try to address outrage at the coup that the Social Security has just given this group of professionals by denying them the opportunity to see their withdrawal in advance because of the impact they have on their health. In a resolution that has lifted bottles, the agency under the Ministry of Employment refuses to authorize the procedure to recognize the reduction coefficient for this guild, which would imply that they could retire earlier." The Fisheries Women's Association ensures that this decision of the Executive of Pedro Sánchez returns to invisibility, despite all the progress that has been made. April 21, 2022, Faro de Vigo: "Madrid heeds the dives for a lower retirement age. It is not planned to apply reducing coefficients, says the government in a parliamentary response. Since the Trade Union for Maritime Activities, they ask themselves: Can anyone in his sound judgment understand that a worker who carries a team of more than 40 kilograms of weight and works in a hostile environment, submerged, can develop his work safely after he has reached 60 years? Can you really wait until you reach the age of ordinary retirement without having irreversible damage?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And now we understand that it is time that this government that calls itself a progressive and that has also supported the Nationalist Block of Wales in its investment and that many times affirms a mouthful that does not leave anyone behind, look at getting ahead of this matter, which has become entangled. Not only must they worry about raising the cost of contributions, but they must be extended in this case, which is what we are asking for, the benefits. And we want justice done, because sailors and sailors deserve it. So what we ask of the Galician Nationalist Block in this case, what we ask of the Socialist Party, is to support this initiative. But, above all, what we are asking the Government of Spain is to comply with the agreement that this Parliament has already reached and with the agreement that this Parliament will once again take. That's why I was saying that this agreement is still fully in force, and I just put two recent examples in the replica and I'll put some more on them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u179	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u180	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. "I am sure that the work of the seamstresses is painful. But work is painful by its own definition and by its own nature. All those who have studied the right to work know that one of the characteristics is the pesosity of work. I do not think that in the marishe, pesosity is greater than in other activities in which the benefit of early retirement is not to be applied." These are not the words of this honourable Member, Mr. Pérez Corgos at the Congress of Deputies in 2001, who was elected by the PP for the province of Coruña, on an initiative that was to include autonomous seafarers or on his own behalf in the special scheme of seafarers. This, Mr. Balsairo, is what the People's Party really thinks about whether or not the marishers are included in the special regime of the sea. [[Applause]] Now don't come here with any other words, and they're the ones who are most worried about including the shellfishers and the ramparts in the special sea regime that are included and if you can't apply these reduction coefficients. Because, look, we're going to start the little things on the base. You think it confuses these terms of reducing retirement age coefficients. It's true that these reducing coefficients for delaying retirement age, as long as the other requirements for access to retirement pension are met, as may be the period of shortage necessary, it's not true that everyone has those reducing coefficients. There are some groups that have already recognized these reduction coefficients, and so what we're going to have to ask is that they improve and extend these reduction coefficients, but there are other groups in the fisheries sector that don't have these reduction coefficients. So, some people will have to recognize these coefficients and other collectives that have recognized these coefficients, and what they have to do is to improve them. But, of course, you said that on this subject there is already agreement and unanimity in this Parliament. Of course, the People's Party recently brought the same initiative to a committee, by the way, supported by the PSdeG parliamentary group. But did the same initiative bring it to the PSdeG Parliamentary Group in the past legislation, and what did the People's Party do? You voted against it, and why did you vote against it? Because I was ruling the People's Party in Madrid. So don't come here today with what the People's Party is most concerned about, which already carried it in its electoral program, which collected the historical demands of the fishing sector and the seafood sector, because, look, allow me to see that the confidence given to it by the Greeks and the Greeks is totally depriving the People's Party of its performances. [[Applause]] Because, look, in the past legislation they voted against asking for these reduction coefficients for these collectives, even improving them for those who have already recognized these reduction coefficients, because, of course, we had to ask that government friend to make these legislative changes. We supported these reduction coefficients for these collectives, particularly for seafarers, who have recognized them but must expand them; for the networks we also ask them to be given those reduction coefficients and for many more workers of the sea. Because we don't give preference to collectives about others. But, look, you're also fooling the workers who depend on the Council of the Sea, fooling the Coast Guards, the demonstrators... because they don't have those reducing coefficients. What have you done--no, no, tell me-- what have you done so that these groups have recognized those reducing coefficients? Good words, but they didn't do anything at all. No, Mr. Balsairo, do you have reduced coefficients for coastguards, which are not even included in the special regime of the sea? Do you have reduced coefficients for sea council-dependent exhibitors? No, and that's because of the ineptitude and because the Galician Union is not even able to make accurate reports on morbidity and sinequality, which would be very good at applying those reducing coefficients. But what are you talking about, that even you in 2017 denied, by an education from the Social Institute of the Navy, the maximum retirement age reduction coefficient to many of the longtermers in our sector? But what are you telling me? Like it's not true? Do you want to tell me that in 2017 there was no instruction denying this collective's maximum coefficients? So one thing is what they say they do and another little thing is what they do, that they don't do anything. They don't do anything. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Balsairo, you said that also in your own non-law proposition, in the exhibition part, you said that as early as 2017 you had also brought an initiative that basically came to say that, once the European regulation had been adopted so that the characteristics of fishing boats are defined, because then the Central Government had taken steps to review these reducing age retirement coefficients. And now he says at his initiative, "at last, now that this European regulation is adopted." Look, Mr. Balsairo, do you know when that regulation was adopted? In June 2017, Regulation of the European Union 2017/1.130 of 14 June 2017 defining the characteristics of fishing vessels, published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 30 June 2017, and now coming to you: "Now that this Regulation has finally been approved you can review these reducing coefficients". You also brought this initiative in February 2017, when I was about to pass that regulation. What have you been doing since June 2017? What have you been doing? There was ruling in Spain a gentleman named Mr. Rajoy and he couldn't be asked for anything from Galicia, and now it's all urgent for the central government to check these reduction coefficients. That we agree, that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative again, which today brings the People's Parliamentary Group, that the Government of Spain is working on this revision of these reducing coefficients, so it has moved it to the sector itself. And it's not true that they'd been denied these reducing coefficients to grids and marshes, what the central government told them in an instruction was the way they had to activate this procedure, and that the collective itself understood, and that's what it's doing. So don't tell me you're not working and you're not checking those coefficients. That, by the way, is a recommendation from the Toledo Pact, which you... of course, we don't want to talk about the Toledo Pact, because, of course, you gave a lot of sight to the Toledo Pact, these negotiations, those agreements with social agents, it's something that doesn't go with you. But I repeat to you, we agree, the central government is working on that revision of the reducing coefficients, to, on the one hand, include certain groups that today have no right to those reducing coefficients to which they have access to those reducing coefficients, and on the other hand, that those collectives that have already recognized those reducing coefficients improve them. But, of course, you haven't been doing anything. And that, look, the sea's own advisor, who just a few weeks ago, or last week, had met with the fishing women's group, I was already recognizing that they weren't doing anything until 2019. The counselor himself said, "No, since June 2019 we've been asking for these reduction coefficients for these rowing and marinating groups." Why from June 2019 if this is a historical, historical claim to these collectives? Why haven't they done anything before? I think it's very good that they're now interested in these collectives and that they want them to be recognized, they're not benefits, but in the end it's a benefit because they can advance their retirement age, but that's very necessary, it's fair, because of the conditions in which these collectives work. But, of course, it is now that I couldn't ignore how they drafted their initiative by saying that now, because it was finally adopted by that European regulation, because the Central Government had to review those reducing coefficients. But, of course, I repeat that this regulation is published on June 30, 2017. Therefore, the Central Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have committed, in particular, that during the course of 2022 this model will be reviewed so that professions are determined with penosity and, above all, with prolonged penosity, thus opening the door to which these reducing coefficients are improved. We, from here, from the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, have already told the Minister that he has to do so in the course of 2022. You alluded, on a daily basis, to a forum that was held in Cambados, to which the minister himself committed himself to meeting these historical claims of these collectives, to these claims that also come from the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and therefore is working on it, as well as the Central Government itself has also collected historical claims from these collectives. We're talking about professional diseases that hadn't been recognized red blood vessels or shellfish, for example, the carpiano tunnel. In 2019, six new professional diseases were recognized for these groups. What should more professional diseases be included in the catalogue for these collectives? Of course, but you haven't been doing anything and this government is working and the measures are there. So today we are going to back up this initiative. We believe that it is fair for certain groups of the special sea regime to access these reducing coefficients, that other groups who have already recognized these reduction coefficients to be better off, but of course we do not prioritize one group over another. It is true that the other day an initiative was discussed that would focus on these two collectives, but one was not giving priority to one group over another. What's the matter is that you tell me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u182	...that they've been working so that the coastguards, the exhibitors, have reduced coefficients, when they haven't even been able to make those reports that the sector itself asks you to be able to endorse the thesis that they need those reducing coefficients, the truth is that you're missing enough of the truth. It's over. The words I read at first are what the People's Party really thinks about inclusion in the special regime of the sea and about the reduction coefficients for these collectives that you are asking for here today. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairo, allow me, before I get to the bottom of the matter, to make a small recommendation to you from my appreciation. You have to lower the intensity of the shouts and internal struggles at Lugo's PP, because you have the very affected voice, Mr. Balsairo, and at your age you have to start taking care of these things. [[Applause]] Watch your voice, Mr. Balsairo. Mr. Balsairo said when he began his intervention, he said it again, that the People's Party is indeed the majority group of this House, he always says it, isn't it? It's like a collection. Some say "good," others say "sorry" or anything. Well, Mr. Balsairo says "the majority group of this House." [[Applause]] Well, Mr. Balsairo said, at the beginning of this intervention, that they, like the majority group in this House, presented themselves to the elections, of course, with a program that was referendumed by most of the Greeks and the Greeks. So much referendum is there and you feel Mr Balsairo brings the same initiative — identical, with points, commas and accents — twice in the same month. You don't like it, or he doesn't think that in the Commission the votes are not the same, we all vote in favour; and as he says, "Well, the whole is the 8th commission," I'm going to take it to the plenary, because there's more value in it. [[Laughter]] And then bring us the same initiative, exactly the same. At the end of the day, Mr Balsairo: the BNG will vote for this People's Party initiative; that is to say, it will vote for the same thing as it voted for the 8th Commission, because it has exactly the same value, Mr Balsairo. Well, this proposal that the People's Party brings to us today is not new. It was not even new when you took it to the Commission, it was not even new, because the debate in this Parliament — even in committee, Mr Balsairo — has often been brought to the Congress of Members. [[Murmurs.]] At the moment, the Ministry of Social Security seems — for the information available — that is working precisely on the reform of the contribution of self-employed and self-employed people. And indeed, the Minister, Mr Scrivá, who was in November in Cambados on a few days, said there that they intended to review the model so that the penosity of certain professions is determined. The reform that is intended to be carried out, if it is carried out, we understand that it is an opportunity for the workers and the workers of the sea. To adapt, precisely, their reality and the characteristics of their work, and to recognize, precisely, that characteristic, the pesosity of that work they perform, that they develop; and therefore correspond to those characteristics with reducing coefficients that fit them. Well, Mr. Balsairo also said -- well, as always, too -- that right now we're in absolute maraism in the State Government, there's no one who approves anything, when they already had -- and he said textually -- "carried" this theme of the reducing coefficients, stuffed. Well, I don't know if you've got him chained up the same thing that got the high-speed train or the inner train in Galicia, because it's completely out of sight. You did a reform of the Social Security Act for self-employed people in 2015 — Mr. Balsairo, you governed the People's Party and Mr. Rajoy in the Government of the State — where they did not contemplate for the last time — I know that they were neither the first nor the only ones — the reduction of the reduction coefficients of the red tapes, for example, that today — the 21st century — they continue to retire, with all the penosity that has this work, at the age of 65, by work and grace of the last law that exists, which is the People's Party. [[Applause]] This is like when you talk about the Marasmous state government's erratic performance with electricity, which we can share, but it turns out they're acting under a law that has unilaterally passed the People's Party. Well, this is the same, absolutely the same. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The important thing: the ramparts do not have today — the 21st century — a reduction coefficient, they have to retire at the age of 65, when here, at least in this country — not in Madrid, but here we know perfectly what the conditions of work are, precisely, the penosity of a work like that of red tape. What do you mean? Because I am not surprised at these heights: walkers, reducer coefficient, 0,10; fleet sailors — which, in addition, is usually said to be foot seafarers, fleeters — 0,15. Why don't you surprise me? As long as we've been here, they've been saying that equality exists for years, but there's a legal equality that the BNG often said that it wasn't real yet, and this is one example, one more sample. Well, we hope that this reform will be of equal value in reality, not in the paper — because the paper is already more than even — the reduction coefficient of the seams on foot with those of the seams, for example. But there's still more. Mr. Balsairo, who now comes here from a question that has already been claimed many times and, despite having spent a few years in the State Government, they have done nothing, it turns out that in the Galician Union's own home there are workers of the sea—and I say workers because, in this case, they are all workers—not only do they have a reduction coefficient, but they belong to the special regime of the sea, but the Galician Union, as joint workers, itself, of that administration that they are, has not moved to today's day, nor even to do what the People's Party likes so much, which is to ask the State that this group I will now appoint has the right to the reductor coefficient. I'm talking, Mr. Balsairo, about the collection of sea demonstrators. In Galicia there are sea demonstrators, a very small body, because the Union, instead of expanding it — which do a very important job — has reduced it in recent years. And where they were 10 -- or something more than 10, I don't remember the exact amount now -- it turns out that we have 8 people all over the country, who are called sea showers, who depend directly on the Councillory of the Sea, who have been claiming this for years. But I never saw him in his initiatives, why would he be, because he had to change "to ask the state" for "to ask the Council of Galicia"? Is that why, Mr. Balsairo? Of course, because if we talk about the workers and the workers of the sea, we talk about everyone and all who are precisely in inequality and inferiority. And you come here to put the accent... really, sometimes I mean... of course! [[Murmurs.]] No, yes, of course, it is that last day, last week, we unanimously approved in Commission 8 — unanimously, I suppose you are part of the People's Party — that in the Commission 8th raised your finger in favour of the Block initiative which rightly called on the State to request the inclusion of Coast Guards, Coast Guard Service staff, on the subject of reducing coefficients. [[Murmurs.]] And yet you're now accusing here that there are groups -- you have them -- that there are groups that put the emphasis more on collectives than on others. No, Mr. Balsairo, what happens is that that initiative—we explained it to you at that time, but like yours, we're going to have to explain it twice—we were presenting and debating an initiative that referred to the coastguards. Just as we're going to introduce another one — I anticipate it so that you're going to study the subject well — about the seashowers; in particular, we've been presenting other red tapes, from seafarers on foot, we've introduced others. Of course, and now comes the People's Party, which often does in these cases — and more on Christmas, which is when the year's balance is made — and puts everything together and tells us "all the workers of the sea." Yes, of course, we fully agree, Mr Balsairo, absolutely agree; what we should ask is that, in spite of the embezzlement — that is what you had, who says that you had in the state when the People's Party was ruling — we followed the same thing. The last amendment to the law is the People's Party. So, finally, we're already bigger to use speeches that really aren't based on anything, we're based on strict data. And the rigorous data is that the People's Party has had the opportunity — as well as the PSOE, because, of course, it has also ruled in the State for so many other years, right? — to change this. And it's awfully painful — and that's painful, it meets the penosity requirements of the reducing coefficients —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u186	...that we are having these differences today. Mr. Balsairo, you bring the initiative twice and we two will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pérez, I didn't know you had the voice taken. Of course, I won't consult with you any of the pills I have to take for that voice, consult with Dr. Friend or other doctors here. That's why you're asking me. I'm not going to accept it. But, look, when I got to this Parliament — like any other Member who is — the press gave some awards to Members, it gave the best spokesman the prize. What you have never given is a prize — which I would propose to you — the prize to the honourable Member or to the honourable Member with the most empty and demagogy speech. I'd propose to you for that. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And you have wrong information you said about Lugo's PP. Look, it's so bad that I'll explain. At Lugo's PP there are no screams, there are agreements, we reach consensus; we can disagree, which is normal. Look if there are no screams the PP de Lugo has in this House, through Lugo province, 9 Members, you have 3. At Congress, 2 Members; you have zero. [[Applause]] At the Senate, 4 senators; you have zero. In the Lugo Parliament, the majority group, 12 provincial Members; you, 3. And you dare go up this rostrum and set the PP of Lugo as an example, and you have some Member — and I'm going to give you another facts — have some Member who has 30 votes in their county. Take a good look. [[Applause]] And you're the ones who set the example of what it is. [[Applause]] Man, please have some more...! At least, you ask permission to speak, and at least speak one of Lugo, because I see that you do not know this data. And, look, you guys talked about the Coast Guards. Look, the Coast Guards, both the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block know who you are. I'm going to give you an example, that there are new Members who don't know him: in the two-party government at the base of Galician coastguards they cut his light for a stubborn government who didn't pay the bill of light; at the base of Galician coastguards, that's true. And you say that the People's Party voted what voted. [[Murmurs.]] Look, at the Congress of Deputies, to include the red tapes in the reducing coefficients, the Socialist Party voted against. But I'm not going to worry about the Congress of Members, I'm going to worry about what happened in this Parliament. See, on May 6, 2016, at an initiative by this Member in Commission 8th to include in the reducing coefficients the Coast Guards of Galicia, the Socialist Party abstained and the Nationalist Block Galego voted against. [[Murmurs.]] It's in the minutes. And you go up to Parliament's rostrum to give lessons from what? Give lessons from what? You, the Socialist Party, abstained; and the Galician Nationalist Block voted against this deputy's initiative, we are no longer saying the initiative of anyone. At the initiative of the People's Group, by José Manuel Balsairo, who was the spokesperson for fisheries at that time. And what, and they vote against it. [[Murmurs.]] And now you go up, that is why you are the right one for the prize — if you hear us from the press — for the emptyest and most demagogic speech of Parliament and of the 75 Members of the Galician Parliament. [[Applause]] From the Rajoy government. Look, the PP has laid the foundations for applying the coefficients to all professionals in the sector. Rajoy's Government has taken a significant step in the social protection of seafarers, has taken a significant step in the reform of the basic law regulating the social protection of workers in the marine-fishing sector; it has expanded the number of groups that can accommodate the sea regime. [[Murmurs.]] And you, as you have nothing to say, say, only and exclusively, demagogy. That's right, the initiative shouldn't have been so bad because they say they're going to support it. Of course, it shouldn't have been so bad. [[Murmurs.]] And since they have no arguments, because you've never done anything by the fishing industry in Galicia, nor do any kind of speech to them believe the fishing sector neither the Socialist Party nor the Galician Nationalist Block, because the only thing you've done with the fishing sector, if you're following the bipartisan government during 2005-2009, was ruining it. If they didn't pay for it, they wouldn't even pay for the Galician Coast Guard's bills! From Galician coastguard, an essential service 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. And you're going to set an example? You have no example of anything, man! You in the fishing sector are no example of anything. You in the fishing sector go ahead and many confrries don't receive them, many associations don't receive them, and they don't want to see them. That's the example you can set. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u189	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council on economic policy in the face of the new macro and micro-economic scenario to bring the strategic plan of Galicia 2022-2030 into line with the economic situation generated as a result of the war of Ukraine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u190	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presents a non-legislative proposal aimed at reflecting and analysing the situation of economic policy and the measures to be taken in a new economic and social context which entails more difficulties for citizenship and which also require reflection on which broad lines should guide the concrete measures of public policies of the autonomous administration. In 2008, the international economy experienced a great recession resulting from a motivating fact, in subprime mortgages, in the crisis of subprime mortgages, which involved a financial crisis and also a demand crisis, with problems in the financial system, and which forced the different governments to have to choose between policies of austerity and policies of public impulse, Keynesian policies. Some defend with vehemence, academic work and also with political positioning the importance of adopting expansional policies that, through demand, allow the economy to reactivate, boost employment and fight inequality. Others put forward austerity policies that involved an exit from the weaker profile crisis, which meant less motivation and less vitality of the economic fabric. And they implied, at the bottom, that the great recession had, through two recessive phases, in the Spanish economy, a greater lethargy for productive activity and for the welfare of citizens. In the great recession we learned that there was a need to implement keynesian policies and impulse policies that were important to that kind of crisis. And again in the crisis of the cavern, the pandemic, which in addition to a very deep health problem also involved an economic crisis, we saw again how widespread policies were necessary and that the public sector acted where the private sector could not be. With the crisis of the coward also the conservative sectors ended up behind and the Galician Union itself spread policies to boost economic policy, motivated by a Government in Spain that changed the way to deal with economic crises. A government that has bet on a European Marshall plan that has motivated the existence of European funds that we all now know are so important. And that, by opening up the public expenditure, allowed the economy to enter a recovery stage as the confinements and restrictive measures by the pandemic were rising. We now had a cycle of recovery that the war scenario puts on a new political time: intensification of raw materials, especially with regard to gas and oil, intensification of certain inputs, uncertainty, inflation... a supply crisis that involves higher production costs, which involves a breakdown of inputs, which involves an energy crisis and which forces us to do our duties in economic policy, in terms of efficiency and equity. And the Government of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, cannot ignore its competence in economic and industrial matters to answer the problems that we will have in a new time. We all hope that the war in Ukraine will end as soon as possible, but we know that it is a war complex that will have long-term political effects on the level of international tension. Let's hope that the war will end, but we know that the world ahead will be different on the international stage, and that also has an economic implication. And that's why, 13 years after Mr Feijóo's rule, it's time to steer the new economic policy for a new time in Galicia, which we have to do by taking stock of the economic policies that the Government of the People's Party in Galicia has applied, and also by updating Galicia's roadmap to new economic circumstances. Mr. Feijóo is leaving the Government of Galicia with a balance of absence in the economic policy of our country. During 13 years of government, Mr. Feijóo Galicia lost 100,000 inhabitants; in 2009 we were 2,796,000 Greeks and today we are 2,695,000. A demographic crisis that involves a greater ageing of the population and shows also the weakness of the Greek economy to generate jobs and to have more people busy. Because if the Greek economy had the ability to generate more jobs over these 13 years, there would be more Greek people who could live in Galicia and more citizens of the world who could be here developing their working capacities and their productive potential. He made it leave a Galician with fewer people, a Galician with less busy population. While in Spain the number of workers has increased significantly over the past 13 years, Galicia has reduced the number of citizens in the occupied population during the Feijóo governments. In Spain, more than 1 million jobs were carried out from 2009 to 2021, in Galicia, 65,000 were destroyed. It's an economy that doesn't have the nerve to generate jobs and increase the busy population, it's an economy that gets weaker; and that's why the Greek economy is today smaller than the whole economy in Spain when Mr. Feijóo arrived. We exceeded 5% of the state-wide GDP representation and are now below us. The public debt has also increased from 6.8% to 20.4%, more than tripled over the 13 years of this big manager who now wants to apply these same policies to the Spanish set. A long-term unemployment rate that also increased between 2009 and 2021, from 3.4 to 4.8. A juvenile unemployment rate for young men and women in Greece between 20 and 24 years, which also increased from 28% to 31% during the 13 years of Mr. Feijóo. A abandonment of the R & D+i, where we have not achieved any of the goals that the People's Party itself has continuously marked in each electoral campaign, every year in the various investment debates; they have always failed in innovation policy. Today in Galicia there are fewer researchers in the full-time public sector than when Mr Feijóo arrived. And all this economic crisis situation is evidenced in industry, in rural areas, in depopulation, in social services. Also a country that lost money had cuts in social services, in a Galician where the number of beds installed was reduced to 700, or from working beds to 900 in public hospitals; or where 138 public schools were closed, 11% of which were when Mr. Feijóo arrived. There are, according to various reports, over 600,000 Greeks and Greeks who are at poverty levels, 1 out of every 5 Greeks is at poverty level, and 1 out of every 10 Greeks is at severe poverty. That balance is also a result of the inability to have a strategy to cope with times of crisis that elsewhere have faced with better performance. I know that the People's Party is trying to ignore the reality of a country that loses its population, loses its busy population, loses weight in the country's economy. Today Galicia is economically more childish than when Feijóo arrived, because the rest of the world grows more than Galicia grows, and we get more stagnant, we stay behind; we can't follow the same roadmaps they applied in the previous crises. And that's why it's necessary to mark a new time in Galicia's economic policy, and we have to do it with a new policy that has strategic orientation, because that's what the People's Party Government has missed as well. A 13-year-old government of Feijóo simply focused on advertising and marketing, which never wanted to recognize that in Galicia we lost population, which never wanted to recognize that in Galicia there are 65,000 less workers in the occupied population, who never wanted to recognize that the weight of the Greek economy in the whole state is smaller than when he arrived. And with that bad balance in the big data, Mr. Feijóo wants to apply the same policies to the state's whole. As we know in Galicia, the effects of Mr Feijóo's economic policies for the whole State would imply that Spain would have less and less occupied population, that Spain would have fewer and fewer people, that Spain's level of production would be losing weight in the whole of Europe. A balance of social cuts and lack of momentum in the economy, a talk of a lot of marketing paid with public funds but little improvement for so many citizens. And that's why what failed in Galicia has to be rectified for the coming times, and what failed in Galicia cannot be allowed to apply in Spain to bring our country's most citizens into a complex and difficult situation. And that's why we present this non-law proposal, so that we approach a new time, with income policies and meeting social agents. The adoption of a new industrial policy, which has been absent for so long during Mr Feijóo, where the list of companies that have fallen is countless; and in addition where it is necessary to adapt general economic plans to sectoral action measures to protect companies in transport, fishing, sea, industry or agribusiness. Cost-side policies, which also allow for developing a new Igape, with new functions adapted to a new time, and which is not simply converted into an unutilized and inefficient element of administration. And, of course, a tax policy adapted to times. And you, who are so supportive of changing tax policy, could start now. If the People's Party wants to make a tax policy that benefits people who have the most vulnerability, the first thing they have to do is reverse the last reform of the property tax which in favour of the millionaires in Galicia has approved the People's Party of Mr. Feijóo, the Allied People's Party of the Millions. [[Applause]] That takes tax measures against the middle classes and against the lower classes of our country; against the workers, we are — like most of us here — dependent on our wages to be able to live. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that's why we want to put this proposal to them, so as to guide a new time when Galicia can start to have momentum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u193	...in equality of growth and well-being. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is time to adapt to new facets and new measures, it is time to adopt a new package of economic policy. They failed in the economic policies they applied in Galicia in the great recession, they were towing in the policies we applied to the great pandemic and now they can't keep leaving Galicia forgotten. And it takes a new time with different economic policies to which Mr Feijóo applied.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u194	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u195	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u196	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u197	Good afternoon. The rise in prices, inflation, is logically occupying much of the public debate and political debate today. The IPC has risen in the last 12 months 9.8 points in the Spanish State. But the climb comes up here in Galicia at 10.5 points. I mean, prices have risen more in Galicia than in the Spanish state as a whole this past year. And it's obvious to everyone that this brutal price escalation brings its cause directly from the rise in energy prices: electricity and fuel. In fact, when we look at the IPC data by categories, we find that the housing and energy costs, which are together, have risen to 33% in the Spanish state and 39% in our country, 6 points more here in Galicia. We're talking about inter-annual data, from March 2021 to March 2022; therefore, corresponding mostly to a period prior to the war in Ukraine. Something that is also evident to everyone, but in what, unexpectedly, we must do fincapé, clearly denying the President of the Spanish Government, who stated at the Congress of Deputies and Deputies that the escalation of prices was the sole fault of the war in Ukraine. The war has indeed aggravated the rise in energy prices, because it affects the world market for gas and oil, but prices in these world markets have already been shot before the war; just like CO2 emissions prices, for example, which are also set on a globalized and speculative market. This is one of two reasons why prices have been shot for over a year. Firstly, because of these international markets they are in the hands of speculators. And the second cause of the escalation of the prices of electricity, of this brutal and decarnated rise of the price of light, which is putting against the cuts of companies, self-governing and self-governing and families, we must thank you, as my companion Rosana mentioned earlier, the People's Party and, in particular, the Government of Mr. Rajoy and the Minister of Soria, who designed and implemented the current system of pricing electricity. By the way, a system designed for large energy companies. That's why today Mr. Fexóo, in his role as leader of the opposition, calls for lower taxes to alleviate the effect of rising prices, but he says nothing, absolutely nothing, of modifying the pricing system of electricity. Lower taxes if, i.e., reduce the collection and financing of public services yes, this is the People's Party's revenue for everything, but reduce the illegitimate benefits of large energy companies not. Mr. Fexóo knows very well that the support and embraces of the President of Iberdrola may be very necessary in his objective of becoming President of the Spanish Government. The first thing we have to do to really deal with this escalation of inflation is to act on those products or services that fire inflation. And energy prices are, with much difference, the main cause. So that's where we have to act. PP is against, we know, but what does PSOE do? For now, act on certain specific taxes and subsidize the price of fuel by 20 cents. It's not enough, it's time-consuming and very limited measures. You're looking at how that deal with Brussels just announced and how it's going to compensate the electricians. In any case, these are temporary and very limited measures, and we do not forget that in many times the highest price of energy has marked it by hydroelectricity. But since the BNG we want to point out that acting on the price crisis is especially urgent in our country, in Galicia. Because not only do we have higher inflation than in the Spanish state as a whole — I repeat, 10.5 points in Galicia against 9.8 points in the Spanish state — but we have a lower average wage and much lower pensions. I mean, in Galicia we're living the perfect storm: a lot of inflation, especially of basic products, energy, in a low-income or very low-income context. And on this stage, we're listening to some proposals that concern us very much at BNG. One of them is the already commented tax drop and another is a wage containment pact on what seems to be a coincidence between the People's Party and the PSOE. The tax drop that he proposes is presented as an IRPF update based on inflation to prevent people from paying more, which is known as deflating the tax. And we want to comment on this three things. The first one, which is surprising that Fexóo proposes to deflate the IRPF when in this Parliament the People's Party voted against deflating the autonomous part of the IRPF, a proposal that brought the BNG to this House. We want to point out, therefore, that Faixóo has been against doing here in Galicia what he's asking for for for the state as a whole. Secondly, deflating the IRPF and at the same time promoting wage containment is somewhat contradictory, because if wages do not rise there is no danger of over-employment that is intended to be corrected by deflation. But above all, because lower taxes to increase liquidity and therefore increase people's consumption capacity and at the same time freeze wages and, therefore, reduce people's consumption capacity, it's very contradictory as an argument. But — I insist — tax reduction, with arguments or without them, rightly or without it, is the solution of the PP for everything, because it does not hurt, it does not concern you at all the financing of public services, which are precisely the main mechanism for redistribution of income in economic policy. And the third question: going to a wage containment pact is simply insatiable for all those people who earn low or very low wages, who are the majority, especially in our country, and it's also a risk for the recovery of our economy, because it will affect domestic consumption and, essentially, the consumption of goods and services provided by sectors already very hit by the crisis, such as autonomous and autonomous, small trade and hospitality. So from the BNG we pretend to attack the root problem, acting where it is located -- that is, modifying the electricity pricing system. For BNG it is preferable to reduce these disproportionate and illegitimate benefits of large energy companies than to reduce public resources. As for the other measures currently being discussed, we are in favour of deflating the IRPF, of course, yes, but we are also in favour of wages maintaining their consumption capacity. And we're also in favour of increasing the taxation of higher incomes. Because, in the same way that we need to maintain the purchasing power of wages, we also need to govern ourselves with economic capacity to finance quality public services: a teaching, health and social services at the height of the times we are in. And, on the other hand, we need to govern ourselves with the capacity to boost economic reactivation and to make strategic investments. And we need a German Government to stop comparing what the leader of the People's Party in Madrid says, who ceases to act according to the electoral calendar of the metropolis, who assumes its competences and responsibilities and who pushes, once and for all, a genuine Greek agenda, in particular on R & D+i and industrial policy. To sum up and to finish: we have to reconcile a realistic policy in the sense of politics that solves people's real problems, which are energy prices and low wages, not taxes, with the necessary ambition that must have a German Government to think about Galicia in great terms. That Galician we know we can be, a prosperous and supportive country. But we must begin, for example, with measures such as the establishment of a Greek electric company. Galicia has energy resources and in its hand is an important part of energy planning and its development. You can put these energy resources at your own service in the country or you can keep on eating the cartel of big energy companies. Today, which seems to accept the existence of an Iberian exception, for when do we ask the acknowledgement of the Greek exception? Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u198	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Cristina Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Caballero, today you are defending an initiative in which you place the duties of the Galician Union on the economic scene derived from the Ukrainian war, and do so only three weeks after this plenary and this parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, presents itself with an extensive and detailed battery with 28 measures to deal with inflation and the economic consequences following the invasion, a proposal which did not have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. With respect to what you know, let me tell you that now, with such a generic proposal, it seems that what you are trying to do is to correct the strategic error of your parliamentary group or, at least, to conceal and wash your face from the bad decision of the PSdeG not to support that initiative and its lack of support for the Greek families and businesses in the complex situation they are living in. First of all, you propose that the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2022-2030 adapt to the new situation of the Ukrainian war. I believe that at this point it is necessary to contextualize. As your lordships will know, the German Government has been acting in the wake of strategic planning since 2010. With that objective, last March 10 approved the Strategic Plan of Galicia for the period 2022-2030, which will continue with previous plans, which were from 2010 to 2014, from 2015 to 2020. The new plan, drawn up after listening to a large number of experts on each subject, brings together two main priorities: sustainable economic growth and employment, which will be structured around 5 strategic axes and 10 targets, which will define Galicia for the future, Galicia we want for the year 2030. Well, with regard to your proposal to adapt the plan to the new situation, I don't think it's now time. First of all, because the new plan was adopted at the last Council of the European Union and will, as before, be the subject of debate in this House. And that will be when the various parliamentary groups can make our assessments, our proposals for the plan and the impact of the war-driven crisis. Therefore, we would now be anticipating that debate. Moreover, as you will surely know, your own corrective mechanisms are incorporate in the text of the plan itself. Because the plan is part of the premise that we live in a changing society and, therefore, it already incorporates the system that will allow us to adapt the initial planning to meet the continuing challenges that Galicia will face over the course of this decade. You also speak on your initiative to agree with the social agents of Galicia on the basis of the economic policy of the Union before the new stage — and I quote literally — "of rising prices resulting from the war in Ukraine." Allow me at this point, on the one hand, to correct it, just as the fellow speaker of the BNG did, for, although it is true that the war has added the problem of prices, the inflationist spiral that this country lives, as you know, began several months before the beginning of the invasion. Please don't close your eyes to reality. And allow me, on the other hand, to welcome you to the way you work the German Government. Because if there's a common denominator in your decision-making, it's permanent dialogue and agreement with social agents. And nothing better than a data to illustrate this statement. Do you know how many meetings with social dialogue have held the Employment and Equality Council since this legislation began? So nothing more and nothing less than 70 meetings, which dealt with different types of topics, such as the Greek candidacy to the Next Generation funds, or which help give workers affected by ERTE, or which rescue plans to develop for the sectors most affected by the pandemic. So by the People's Parliamentary Group and the German Government, dialogue with the social agents of Galicia, always. Another thing is that it bothers you that a PP government is able to reach agreements in the wake of social dialogue, because these agreements show that the repeated argument of the People's Party's Roll is simply a fallacy. In the following points of its initiative it proposes measures of a generic nature, such as the bet on a new industrial policy or sectoral measures. Mr. Knight, how can you ask for this kind of action at the moment? Do you not know the content or scope of the shock plan presented by the President of the Galician Union at this headquarters on March 22nd? Do you know that this plan contained sectoral measures or do you know that this plan is mostly already published in the CEO and is therefore applicable to families and businesses in our community? Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Greek Government knew how to anticipate and do its duties in time, within the framework of its competences, because families and sectors most affected by the pandemic could no longer endure. And, of course, we cannot wait for you to decide to present this initiative, but with a month and four days' delay with respect to the day the shock plan was introduced in this House, which really have a problem with understanding what is urgent and what is not. With the shock plan already approved by the Government of Greece before the price increase, the Galician Union approved measures for different sectors, which have already been explained and I have no time in my intervention to detail again, but they have already been measures for the sea sector, measures for the livestock sector, measures for the road passenger transport sector, measures for trade, for hospitality, measures for the tourism sector, measures for the automotive sector, measures for financing for businesses in general, and measures for the most vulnerable families through the thermal social bond and help them to pay their heating and hot water costs. And more, when necessary, the Union is pushing sectoral plans like, for example, the strategy of the Galician naval industry 2022-2026, approved, as you know, at the last Council of the Union, with the aim of consolidating a key industry in our community. You also talk about redefining Igape's role on the new stage. I don't know very well what you mean or simply whether it's a mantra that usually uses or uses when you talk about this organism. But don't worry, because Igape, both his management team and his professionals, colleagues and colleagues who are talking to them, was able to react to the new stage with a lot of work and agility and published numerous programs for the support and financing of companies during April. In particular, because I don't have time to go into detail with all of them, let me mention two of them, especially those in this debate. It first approved direct loans to finance the industries affected by the increase in the price of supplies of raw materials as a result of the Ukrainian war, collected in the DOG of 8 April. And he also approved the Ukraine-Russia conflict financial programme, through which the Union supports and supports bank loans to the Greek pemmes for the same purpose. Note: DOG of 21 April. And please stop throwing balloons off and take on their own responsibilities. You know that the scope of the powers and the measures that the Union can take is not comparable to what is needed to cope with the current situation. In parallel, an immediate reaction from the Central Government is necessary. The question is very simple: what is the central government doing? Well, I'll reply to you: a lot of media propaganda and a lot of publication in the Official State Gazette. You announced as a star measure a top in the price of gas when you didn't even have - it seems today - you have been granted authorisation from the European Union. Or we can talk about the measure of the 20 cent discount on the fuels, the discount that they have to put forward the gas stations, many of which are still waiting for the central government to fulfill its commitment to pay those advances. The situation generated is such that from different associations in the sector they are denouncing the situation of becoming state-owned financiers. It's leading small service stations and low cost gas stations to threaten with closure because of their lack of liquidity. Instead of one solution, they caused a new problem. And again, this Board, to be located next to the sector, on 8 April, through the Igape again, signed an agreement with the Welsh PSDRs, with Afgal and Sogarpo, to grant to the gas stations affected by this situation loans that were evaluated and subsidized. And the same goes for the commodity transport sector. I refer here to statements by the president of an association of transporters from my province, Lugo, last week, in which he said they didn't get the state aid. There is uncertainty about how and when they will arrive. The gas oil has risen so much that the situation is still unsustainable, they are working on losses, and in this situation they are most likely to have to stop. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think the Socialist Party is going to give control lessons on the economic situation, given what is happening in Spain, where you have the responsibility to rule for the moment. And it is no longer bad for the Socialist Party to do it, the bad thing is for the PSdeG to do it, which is a mere branch in Galicia and who dares to ask the Galician Council what it dares to ask the Central Government and its president in areas where he really has competence. Mr. Knight, given his training and extensive knowledge in economics, I am sure he does not say what he thinks and is disappointed, like many Greeks and Spaniards, by the lack of initiative of the Central Government in the face of the economic situation. They're in time for rectification. And I'm going to give them a very simple roadmap to do it. I ask you to study, study and support the plan for the defence of families and the economy of Spain forwarded last Friday by President Feijóo to President Sánchez. [[Applause]] This is a proactive plan, a positive plan that has been drawn up by civil society experts, not all of the People's Party, and many of them without the People's Party, which contains a set of proposals to modify the wrong path that is following our economy. Proposals of a fiscal nature, rationalisation of bureaucratic expenditure, medium-term structural reforms or redesign in the management of European funds. In Galicia we have drawn up an ambitious candidacy of the Next Generation funds that includes tractor projects developed with the strategic sectors and the productive tissue, and we need the central government to make a radical change in the management of these funds, so that they really come to companies and produce the economic transformation for which they were actually conceived. Making this possible would be the best way to collaborate with Galicia, with the Greeks and with the Greeks. Rectify, they're still in time. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. Pause.) A person from the House cleaning services proceeds to disinfect the floor.) Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Obviously we have difficult economic times for the future is a mistake that we cannot afford, because we have thousands of Greeks and Greeks pending the measures that are taken to improve them. I'm going to give you a balance that I think is quite enlightening. I'm going to repeat three figures that I think we all have to be clear, also the members of the People's Party Government, and the Members of the People's Party: in 13 years of government of Mr. Feijóo Galicia has lost 100,000 inhabitants; there are 100,000 Welshers and fewer; we have lost 60,000 people in the occupied population, 60,000 workers less while in Spain hundreds of thousands of jobs were generated in the same period, and the Greek economy is more captive within the whole of the Government of the State than when Mr. Feijóo arrived. To give them more recent data, industrial production in Galicia fell by 6.8% while Spain rose by 3.9% in February, the second largest community. Industrial policy has led us to a fall in the country's industrial sector, which is well below 20 per cent of what it aspired to and what it once committed to. The Greek GDP is still below GDP in the times prescribed, and Mr. Feijóo's shock plan is a plan that does not lead to nowhere, it is a plan to clash with the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, not to strengthen public services, not to respond to the country's industrial problems, not to have a labour policy of commitment and generation of employment, because it tells us the spokesperson of the People's Party — who also have all the respect and appreciation — who have held more than 70 meetings and meetings of work, and I think very well, but I also think that we need to take into account the labour market data in Galicia, which are very revealing. The rate of activity in Galicia has the second worst data in all of Spain, we are the penultimate in activity rates, and we are the fifth in the queue in employment rate. It's Mr. Feijóo's policies. If you see what's going on from year to year as an average of industrial production in Galicia, it's dropped by 3.3% while Spain rose by 4%. The People's Party always wants to put on the medal of being a great manager, they did it with the Aznar governments and the economic miracle of Aznar, Mr. Mouse, ended up as it finished. And when we talk about Mr. Rajoy's economic policy, what we know is that he has embraced austerity policies and has led Spain to have a rate of recovery and generation of employment with two economic recessions of many difficulties. And now Mr. Feijóo wants to go to Spain to make the same economic policies of public cuts, of lack of commitment to people's policies, and of lack of economic policy he did in Galicia with Spain, with the aggravating that in recent times he has become, Mr. Feijóo, in the biggest defender of the Laffer curve in the whole state, those who believe that taxes must be lowered in order to collect more, that no one ever believes it, but still Mr. Feijóo wants to grab that because he does not have an economic policy programme for the whole state. Mr. Feijóo's economic policies led us to a more small Galician, with less capacity to generate production and industry, to a Galician with less population, with less busy population, with fewer social services and public services, and now Mr. Feijóo wants to apply those same policies in Spain to lead Spain to a worse situation. The policies of the People's Party are not positive for people, they are not positive for families with vulnerability, they are not positive for workers and workers, they are positive for the allies of the People's Party, they are the electrics, for the allies of the People's Party, which are the great powers and which are the great heritages, they are the right that they want to lower tax to cut the public and undo the state of well-being, and we will continue to defend the state of well-being and the public against the cuts in which Mr Feijóo and the People's Party want to threaten. It's time to mark a new activity, the shock plan of the People's Party of Unity doesn't deserve much longer. You think they're serious, when, with which they're falling, they come up with a shock plan that has no measure of silence, that if they ask the Greeks and the Greeks what they're doing, nobody's going to tell them that they're doing anything positive and the only thing they're doing is to come here and question, as you did the other day, counsellor, that when we pay the fuel tank we have a reduction of 20 cents per litre, and that the People's Party remains the biggest ally of the gas stationers instead of recognizing that there's a government that has taken an important measure, with many funds we raise in taxes to help families, citizens, companies in the country's suffering from indolence, the inactivity, the passivity of a People's Party that always makes problems but never puts solutions, which puts the poles on the wheels because Spain doesn't want to go well, because they prefer to be at the expense of the Government of Spain instead of the people, and by that way we're not well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to ask the leaders of the People's Party to change economic policy. They failed in the previous crises, in the great recession, they were tow in the pandemic, now they apply a new economic policy to the times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u203	...that they come and for that it's better to take off the ideological suit of the People's Party and take positive policies. To remain anchored in conservative policies to lower taxes to undo the state of well-being, not to support industrial policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u205	...of not having economic policy is the way to lead Spain to a worse path and is the way to go back from the needs of so many citizens. That's why we're not doing well, and in Galicia it's necessary for you to load your batteries and make a new economic policy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u206	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and nine other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the inclusion in Spain's electrical network planning for 2021-2026 of Vigo's connection to the high-voltage network and the construction of a new substation in the Balaids polygon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u207	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u208	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. We registered this initiative when we knew the incomprehensible decision of the Government of Spain to leave out of the planning of the Electric Network 2021-2026 Vigo's connection to the transport network 220 kilovolts, as well as to the electrical substation of Balaids. And we self-amended this initiative to add something that concerns us too and very much, which is the PERT of the electric vehicle. Because the latest news tells us that the Ministry of Industry changes the engine's PERT and puts out Stellantis Vigo's demands again. So a chapuza, as vice president second said, which I think came out of her a little bit, because there really is no other explanation. This is a real chapuza, and we don't have any other qualifiers. Vigo has a leading automotive industry with a power grid of the last century and the Government of the Socialist Party ignores it. The city wants to walk towards the future from industry, innovation, but it has to survive with a precarious, old-fashioned electrical system that doesn't give for much. And the governments of the Socialist Party ignore it. That exclusion of Vigo from the Spanish Electric Network planning for the year 2021-2026 will be a brake on the growth of the city, and not only until 2026, but beyond; but it seems to be ignored by the governments of the Socialist Party. It will be a lost decade in which great progress could be made to get Vigo to have a reliable electrical connection and at the height of an industrial city where Spain's largest-produced vehicle factory is based, but the governments of the Socialist Party ignore it. Or not, maybe they don't ignore it. Sometimes I think they are fully aware of those decisions and they take Vigo as a second-rate city compared to other cities and territories of Spain. The Government of Spain doesn't understand or value what Vigo is bringing to Galicia and bringing it to Spain, from science, from university, from fishing, from the cannery, aquaculture, naval, automotive, industry in general, brings a lot of value. We have a lot of courage and we have reason to make those statements. All the knowledge and labor force of Vigo finds no allies in the government of Sanchez and no allies in the governments of the Socialist Party. A few months ago we presented an initiative to sue the Government of Spain to put an end to the blockade of all the infrastructures that were demanded from Vigo. They also included substation, and every day that passes the list of such aggravations and infrastructures that never arrive is ever increasing and therefore we believe that they are completely discriminatory for Vigo and its metropolitan area. So we wonder what's wrong with the Government of Sánchez with Galicia, what's wrong with the Government of Sánchez with Vigo, what's wrong with the Socialist Party with Vigo. And we have to say loud and clear that the PSOE is playing with the growth of the city's strategic sectors. Because we were also talking about a motion, in general, of the fishing sector, which is also fundamental and pointer to the city of Vigo. From this Parliament we have to ask the Government to expand, we have to ask the Government to respond to our requests, because they have as their aim, at least, to keep what we have, at least not to take what we have. Well, I've already told you that we don't want to benefit from the prejudices of other countries, we ask for equality at least — I insist — we ask for what belongs to us, and we don't want to be excused by technical criteria and scientific criteria, because they are 100 percent political criteria, they are 100 percent political decisions. And, therefore, that offends and that must be claimed. Automotion, Catalonia; Oceanographic, Cantabria, Murcia. That's a shame, that's an aggravation, that offends the Greeks and offends the viges and, therefore, we can't afford it. Vigo substation is a strategic infrastructure. A strategic infrastructure thinking about the future of Vigo's automobile, thinking about the future of Galicia, of employment, of industry, and it's called on to benefit also the competitiveness of the rest of the vigue industry and to improve in addition to the quality of the service offered to the rest of the city, also of the homes. Because it's a city, Vigo, which is also growing. What did the requests made by the Union, made by the industry itself, by the CEAGA?, the applications made by Stellantis? We all asked for it, but the Government of the Socialist Party ignored it. We believe that it is all important to this sector because of the decisions it is taking with the sector in Galicia, which is a sector that needs, in addition, to guarantee Stellantis' competitiveness as falling off from all the other auxiliary companies and all the automobile that is in Vigo, as I say, and in its metropolitan area, and needs to lower the cost of vehicle production. And without that substation and without that quality in connection and electricity, it's not on equal terms and it's still competitive. I want to remember, it's fair to remember, that it was a project committed to the previous programming approved by the Government of the People's Party, by the Government of Rajoy, that the Executive of Sánchez kept in a drawer after arriving at Moncloa in 2018. I insist, we ask for it, and now they've definitely thrown it into the trash. Definitely, Teresa Ribera has already taken him to the trash and we expect you to recapacitate, because besides denying us the substation now it seems also that they want to deny us the inclusion in the PERT of the electric vehicle. Therefore, aggravating after aggravating. I had already said in the previous plenary, when we were talking about this sector, that this leads us to a deep reflection, to a deep reflection to know what model the PSdEG wants, what model the Galician Nationalist Block wants for Galicia and Vigo. If they want to end the whole industry, if they really want a city without an industry. And like Pontevedra, who also told them that it is lawful, that it is legitimate, but that they say it, that they recognize it. Because, look, 11,000 almost direct jobs are at stake, and they're at stake in total throughout Galicia depending on the car 23,400 jobs. Tell those people, tell those families that you don't agree to support and make decisions that keep the automotive sector as we understand it in Galicia as a strategic sector. And I say Galicia and Vigo play an ambitious electrification strategy that would allow Stellantis to have a completely electrified range, which is what he needs in 2025. Because, look, it's almost a miracle already, and the other day, the director of Stellantis himself said, that the old Citroën has been in Balaidos since 1958; that he had endured 64 years there with all the difficulties and crises that he went on. So let's not put a stop to it now, let's not put a stop to it now, let's try to stay, because it's also a factory that I knew how to adapt very well to the times. And what we have to do, both from the Government of the United States and from the Government of Spain, is support this sector and support this factory. So right now Vigo is a very high-voltage offline city, essential to equip the entire electrical supply industry stable, efficient and competitive, and it's a city that doesn't have it, but there are others in Spain who do. So that's what I'm saying about discrimination and it's in inequality of conditions. Stellantis represents a basic pillar in the Greek economy, represents about 30% of the exports and, therefore, we cannot rule out it and we cannot make decisions that go against its progress and competitiveness. And they can't be competitive with constant electrical cuts, they can't, because they wouldn't be on equal terms than others. In no case, in addition, we can question the help of Joine in the automotive sector over every year. I said it, 64 years ago, with all the highlands that had to go through and with all the crises. And, therefore, the Welsh automotive industry, which is also made up of 200 companies, which are assistants to the entire metropolitan area, is an example of excellence, digitization, innovation, sustainability and talent. It started everything in 2004 with a strategic plan I and now the CEAGA, the cluster, it already has an IV strategic plan, of course with support, all support, the self-government always, and in the last 13 years with financial support, in addition to 200 million euros, which allowed for maintaining jobs, which allowed that digitisation, that innovation, which allows Citroën, Stellantis now to be there. So we have to say that now Stellantis also formed part of the first electric vehicle that circulated, autonomously, which circulated through the streets of Spain, which came out of Stellantis's own factory, with the support, in addition, of the Government of Feijóo, with the support of the Unity of Galicia; which is now also manufacturing Peugeot 2008, a wide range of electric vans; which was also able to consolidate models to close the Project I+D+i Factory 4.0. I mean, an investment that's been used to keep this going, but it can't be that since the government of Sanchez put obstacles in it, they're just going to look at Catalonia and discriminate against Galicia in such a blatant way. So we follow the line marked by those who understand this well, who advise us, who understand this well, and, as I said, we amend so that they also leave Vigo as needed, and that they can be included in the PERTE. Because the latest news, as I'm saying, tells us that it's out of the PERT and we're asking it, in addition, to become the PERT of the electric vehicle and connected to a tool in which to really support the transformation of the automotive sector with fair and transparent criteria, to ensure the continuity of Stellantis in Vigo and its position as the first manufacturer in Spain, through aids that facilitate access to new platforms and electrical models, which has an impact on the Welsh auxiliary industry directly and in thousands of associated jobs. This is the self-amendment we tabled, which we have to add to the request, I hope that I will join this House, that I live with a substation and an electrical connection that corresponds to it. For me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we believe in a Galicia that has to have a powerful industrial sector. And to talk about industry in Galicia, in historical terms, in present and future terms, also means talking about the automotive sector and, inevitably, about the automotive sector in Vigo and the historical role that has developed the Citroën factory, today Stellantis, in our city. We have to make that clear between all of us. We're talking about an issue that's vital to the most populated city in Galicia, but it's vital to the Galician complex and the whole metropolitan area. Because we're going to measure the ability to meet the challenges of digital transition processes, industrial transition, the path to a new car sector around the world. And, of course, that is the position that we have to adopt among all the actors of the Galician political life and, of course, from the city of Olivia to get something that is so important for employment, for industry and for the future of Vigo and for the future of Galicia. You can't understand Galicia without understanding Vigo's fundamental role, you can't understand the German industrial sector without understanding the fundamental role of Vigo's automotive sector. You can't understand the future challenge of the Galician industry if we don't do it clearly by the automotive sector, which has to have an irreplaceable point in Stellantis, but also that we must complement with a whole set of other industrial activities in the automotive sector as the cluster is doing and so many companies in that metropolitan area. And we have to do it to get to big deals and push that new time. And we have to do this, in addition to having a historical perspective, because I believe that in the intervention I heard from the spokesperson of the People's Party — who, in addition, is also from my city, we share the city and we are sure that commitment to Vigo — he has missed a little more long-term perspective. Because it's true that there is no connection to the very high tension, but we have to see it from a historical perspective to now hit among all of us and get us to do what the Government didn't do either presided over by Mr. Rajoy, because we remember all the plans that had been made and that in 2013 Citroën called for the very high tension line to the Government of the People's Party, to the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Between 2013 and 2018 he ruled the People's Party in Spain and no such measure was taken, Rajoy didn't, and Feijóo shut up. Rajoy didn't take Vigo to very high stress, and Feijóo never raised his mouth or made a demand of that. And I'm sure we have to work together so that the government of the state, presided over by Pedro Sánchez, do what Rajoy and Feijóo didn't do when they were ruling in the state. And that's why we have to be aware of reality. And I share that there are different perspectives. We know that there are technical reports indicating that the proposed demand does not meet the requirements of the decree in force. And we have to make it clear that our commitment to Vigo goes far beyond any technical report. If the decree that exists does not allow the connection of the Stellantis factory and the entire automotive industry and the entire industry of Vigo to the very high-voltage lines, you will have to change the decree to get, according to the law, to be able to take to the Stellantis factory in Vigo what the Government of the Rajoy People's Party did not do, what Mr Feijóo was silenced and what is now to be done, and we have to do it for the future of the city. It's important because that line involves a priority for the automotive sector and a priority for the whole area of Vigo, not just for Stellantis factory. And because we have to be able, in addition, to make that connection change that allows to have more power with the same current circulation with less costs, to give more warranty and less risks; and therefore to allow the Citroën factory, Stellantis, to have a lower level of cost and more guarantee in its impact. Because, in addition, the high-voltage network would no longer be managed by certain distributors — nowadays, those who are — by the Spanish Electric Network — and because in addition to the high-voltage network implies a higher quality. It is a key sector for the future and we can't go down on any of the issues that will allow the sector to expand and give it all its guarantees. And that's why that bet is necessary, that effort. And we have to work, I miss that the Government of Galicia has no greater capacity in industrial policy. And it's true that you, from the People's Party, are recriminating a lot of questions to the government of the state, but I say the same thing again: when we talk about the connection of very high tension, we all have to be together. If you have to change the decree that currently exists and that may put limitations or impossibility to that connection, you will have to change the decree. But the People's Party can't give lessons, because when Rajoy was ruling, he didn't take forward the connection with very high tension that Citroën asked for in 2013, and for 5 years of PP government he didn't. Because, in addition, the Government of the People's Party in the Galician Union lacks industrial policy. I would love to be listening to how the Government of Galicia has the ability to put forward a strategic plan that motivates, innovates, to put Galicia's automobile in the vanguard of Europe and the world to win the challenges of the future; and to do so in search of the necessary agreements. And why doesn't he? And we know, in addition, that in 13 years of Mr. Feijóo's government, Vigo's city has never been in its priorities, has always tended to forget the most populous city in Galicia. It's just that that's a deficit that the People's Party has as well. And I'm telling you, Mrs. Egerique, with the same correction that you recriminate the Socialist Party that is now not being done, but you could do it and not do it. And, therefore, now we have to seek commitment to Galicia's main city and a commitment that can't be left behind. And we have to take it forward to have Vigo, the Stellantis factory and the entire automotive sector having a point role in everything that involves the new European funds, in everything that implies the need for connection through the electrical grid with very high tension. Finally, in everything that involves further development of the automotive sector. Because developing the automobile in Vigo is developing Galicia's industry and future. And there we all have to be able to do a common cause on what thousands of workers directly depend on and tens of thousands of workers indirectly in the automotive sector. It is therefore a commitment that we have, that the Socialist Party of Galicia, that it has the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that it also has the mayor of Vigo. Working in connection and in contact with the State, with the Government of the State, to get now to take forward what was not done when Mr. Rajoy was ruling. And it's good, of course, that initiatives like these, which, of course, we intend to support, because our commitment to automotive, to Vigo and to the Galician industry will never be subject to any other kind of objective. There's viability for the automotive sector, no doubt, but we have to be ambitious, we can't leave any questions pending; and there we all have to be working. And the Council of Economics and Industry of the Government of Galicia has competences, it has responsibilities, it has the duty from Galicia to defend what is fundamental to our industry and to gross added value throughout our community. We cannot stay behind and therefore I believe that it is time that, in addition to adopting all the necessary initiatives in Parliament, plenary, and in addition to rectifying what has not been done properly, it is time to also give strategic guidance without giving up anything in the field of motor vehicle for Vigo. In the approach that has to do with all the energy transition, such as the approach that has to do with the whole digitalization transition, with the robotization, which will play a key role in the automotive sector. It's just that, in addition, when it's more robotized, it's going to be a much more dependent industry on power supply because there's going to be higher costs lost if there's connection failures. And for all that, because, beyond the technical reports and the legal framework, politics is about changing the laws, changing the decrees and achieving solutions, because we believe that the future of Galicia needs the motor in Vigo and the motor in Vigo goes through the maintenance of a Stellantis that can continue to be a vanguard reference, since the Greek socialists will always support the automobile and, of course, we will support Vigo. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u211	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. González Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u212	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Well, I'm glad you're Mr. Balsairo, because, before you start and go to the subject, I want to thank you for teaching us in your reply what it really is, a full speech, a speech to overflow with content. Of course, Mr. Balsairo, you threw yourself out in your intervention. Thank you very much for your teaching. [[Applause]] Well, with reference to this initiative, we are faced with a new demonstration of the low political weight of the Government of Greece in Madrid and of the null defense of Galicia, which makes Galician Union before the Government of the State. And this is nothing new, it's nothing new that Galicia is not in the State Government's agenda, that it governs the People's Party or that it governs the Socialist Party. It's no surprise that Galicia loses, is without projects or investments that are strategic to our country. And connection to the high-voltage network of the Porriño is a demand not only for the automotive sector, it is a demand of the city of Vigo, the only one with over 250,000 inhabitants of the state that remains connected to a basic network of 132 kilowatts. This situation is causing in the industrial fabric of Vigo, and in particular in the factory of Stellantis but also throughout the city, downsurges of tension and shutdowns caused by the current network, obsolete and insufficient. Falls of tension and extinguishing that are usual, so action is needed to reverse this situation. And it's incomprehensible that the Ministry of Ecological Transition leaves out of the planning of the Spanish network by 2021-2026 Vigo's connection to this high-voltage network and Balaids substation. It is true — as Mrs Egerique said — that this Balados substation has already been included in the power grid for the 2015-2020 period, an act called New Vigo 2020. In the investment program for this sexnium, with an budget of 70 million euros, Balaidos substation was planned and connection to the very high-voltage Atios-Peaceline. And now the PP, the People's Party, is breast-feeding that the government of Mr. Rajoy was what included this action in planning for 2015-2020. But what the People's Party does not say is that until June 2018, in which they ruled, they did absolutely nothing for this to develop, nor did they even declare the condition of exceptionality necessary, since a connection of these characteristics requires an intensive consumption of electricity that the Balaids polygon does not achieve. An exceptionality which has already been declared to the plant of Opel de Figueruelas, similar to the plant of Stellantis de Vigo. An issue that the People's Party had also clung but which also disarrayed. In two and a half years they had plenty of time and they didn't do anything, absolutely nothing, and now we see how in the 2021-2026 planning this performance is not collected. And the question that this Parliament is asking is what did the German Government do so that this would not happen? Did you present any claim to this planning to Galician Union? The vice president by insurance who sent a letter to the State Government, which is like saying he didn't do anything. We didn't see Mr. Count in Madrid claiming this performance, neither this nor others; we don't see Mr. Count in Madrid. The passivity of the German Government is only comparable to that of the mayor of Vigo, the defense of this action to the coup d'état de presse seems not enough, because neither the Junta nor the Vigo Council have heeded them in Madrid. It must be that La Voz de Galicia and Faro de Vigo is not read in the capital of the state. I would make a recommendation to the People's Party, and it is that, before leaving for Madrid, Feijóo made a subscription to these two journals so that he does not pass like Mr. Rajoy, who when he was in Madrid completely forgot Galicia's problems. The PP amends this initiative by adding the demand to the Government of the State to change the conditions of the PERT of the electric vehicle and to ensure the continuity of Stellantis en Vigo. And to ensure the continuity of Stellantis in Vigo we call upon the Government of the State from the press, from the Galician Parliament, from the Vigo Council—which tomorrow takes two initiatives, one initiative from the People's Party and another from the Socialist Party—but the Greek Government remains unsatisfied, does not do anything, why, if he doesn't go with it? Industrial policy is not a matter of the German Government! The future of the motor vehicle in the Vigo area does not depend only on having connected to the high voltage network and a new electrical substation. The future of the automotive industry depends not only on the PERT for the automotive industry, which is fundamental – we do not deny it – but on the future of the automobile industry, and that is why the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we have discussed in the past, has been voted against by the People's Party. The German Government has competences in industry and must be the leader of industrial policy in Galicia. We know that PP doesn't want competition, which is more comfortable throwing balloons out and looking for culprits, but while they're ruling in Galicia they have to comply with their obligation to rule the country. The Government of the People's Party must promote a plan that collects all necessary actions, including these two, to ensure the future of the automotive industry in Vigo. But the People's Party is unwilling to do its job and lead Galician industrial policy. His only action will continue to be limited to accompany and support, as he has told us. It is very symptomatic that in the balance made by Mr Feijóo last week of his performances in the city of Vigo there is absolutely no reference to the automotive industry. The submission of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to the orders of their leadership in Madrid are making Galicia lose. The lack of political weight of the Greek Government in Madrid causes Galicia to lose: battery factory, connection to the very high voltage network and substation of Balaidos, PERT of the electric vehicle and connected, Alcoa, Atlantic corridor, railway network, beaches at AP-9, headquarters of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, fishing quotas, zero competitions in thirteen years... we could follow, practically all the competition. Lost, lost and lost, Galicia lost with the People's Party at Galician Union. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going to ask you a question: Are you ever asking yourself self-criticism? Do you wonder why everything goes to the Mediterranean as you say...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I recommend you now that you be on the verge of a convention, add a weekend to hold a congress in which these issues are discussed. It's no good to repeat once and a thousand times that the Government of the State despises, mistreats and ignores Galicia. It's no good to complain because they treat us badly and they treat others better. If you want your projects to be valued and supported, you'll have to make a firm defense and deploy all necessary measures and not comply with sending a letter to the President of the Government. Galicia is unfairly treated with the Government of the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez. And he was unjustly treated when he ruled the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy. Because the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician People's Party are at the orders of their heads in Madrid, which prevents them from defending our country with the strength they deserve. And that is shown because here they vote one thing and arrive at Madrid and vote against, as happened with the transfer of the Spanish Oceanography Institute. BNG is going to support this initiative because, as I said, even though the problems of the automobile not only have to do with Stellantis connected to the high-voltage network and entering the PERT of the electric and connected vehicle, we understand that these are necessary measures for the future of the sector. But we have to go further, the automotive sector is at a crucial moment, we have to draw up an industrial plan to guarantee its future in the new model of production of the next car. Mrs. Egerique, you have finished your intervention in the previous full appeal to which we have all agreed together to underpin the future of the automotive sector, and the Nationalist Block of Wales agrees with this. But bear in mind that in a travesty what leads the course is the obeisance, and without dread the ship can end up in the stones. They can row companies, trade unions, universities, the rest of the administrations, even all the political groups that we are represented in this Parliament, but if the Galician Union in the grip of the fear of the treachery goes aimlessly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u213	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u214	Stop whining and stand up for Galician interests in the state government, stop throwing balloons out and seek guilty and lead the Galician industrial policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u215	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u216	Well, Mrs. González, do you guys do self-criticism, too? Dissimulate, dissimulate, because you come here to blame the Union, almost profile the Government of Spain, absolutely complicit in a government of the Socialist Party that you know perfectly well that you're mistreating Galicia, which you know perfectly that the decisions you're making with the PERT, with the refusal of the substation of the high-voltage network, are from the Socialist Government of the State, and you're the only one doing here is talking about the Unity of Galicia and that we're making self-criticism. Look, Mrs. González, I think you have to conceal and I think you have to know, since you were talking about the Oceanographic Institute, that the institutional statement proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block was rejected by the Socialist Party of Vigo in the morning. He doesn't want to accept this institutional statement by a Socialist Party who believes it has a lot of weight and that it will change decrees but does nothing for Vigo and does nothing for Galicia. And in those moments it's when, in addition, they're portrayed. So, Mrs. González, if you think you have to row in the same direction as me, if you think you have to defend Galician interests, you are defending the interests of the Galician Nationalist Block permanently above Galician interests. Because you have to be consistent and sensible with the decisions that the Government of Sánchez and the Socialist Party are making in relation to the automotive sector. It's all poles on the wheels and everything's negative. So, Mrs. González, I don't know who wants to take fear, intervene the entire Galician industry. Maybe that's his model and he knows we're not going to support him. Besides, we have the support of the Greeks in recent years, four absolute majority and so many others in previous years. That's because the Greeks trust us, the People's Party. And see, Mr. Knight, I have to tell you, how are we not going to present those initiatives? You say here that the People's Party is presenting these initiatives. We really have to claim with these initiatives what we deserve in Galicia, what we deserve in Vigo, is fundamental. And you come here to say, going over, that you have to change the real decree and on the same line as us, but that's not going around. It's just that you come here, you seem to wash Sánchez's face, wash Abel Caballero's face, and I hope some Knight do some case, because they don't listen to him. The Socialist Party of Spain doesn't listen to them. And, really, you come to ask that yes, that substation, which is fundamental, and Sánchez comes to say no. And yes, that IEO has to be in Vigo, and Sánchez says no. And, therefore, we all vote in favour here, but that also the Government of Spain — and if they are realistic — is sometimes part of the Vigo automotive sector, the German automotive sector, the Greek industry, because it is not. And therefore, of course, we have to be constant. And you also spoke of an important transition from Stellantis. I have also spoken of this transition since the first strategic plan, all that has been updated and all that has been done, investments also in the company itself and support always by the hands of the Board, always by the hand of the Board. You cannot question Joine's support for the automotive sector here. He didn't name the PERTE, he passed over without even naming it, and you know as well as I do that PERTE leaves out Stellantis Vigo's requests. And, therefore, it's another aggravating. So, I don't know, it looks like you're doing a rally here and you're talking very well, but really the decisions are going in the direction totally contrary to what you said here. It is the Socialist Party of Spain, the Socialist Party of Vigo, the Socialist Party of Galicia. You have to agree a little bit and make the right decisions, which are really the ones that matter. Because here we talk a lot, but what matters is decisions, and decisions are saying they're mistreating Vigo and they're mistreating the automotive sector. Look, at the PERT, at the Auto Anchora, which Galicia presented, is playing 1,200 million euros to advance the transformation. We play a lot, and we play thinking about the future; you talk about the past, you talk about how we kept ourselves and all that means to Vigo. Yes, yes, but it's because there were decisions at complicated times that were in favor of Vigo. And you can't talk here that it's just like a Socialist Party government like a People's Party government. Because it's not true. And because that substation, when Rajoy received the request in 2017, included it in Plan 2021-2026, and arrived in Sánchez in 2018 and retired. Like that, it's like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now Teresa Ribera goes and directly eliminates her, puts her in a drawer and doesn't count on her anymore. The figures in the sector. Something you'll have to see about joining management with the sector figures. Invoicing companies: amounted to EUR 11.200 million, 7.3% more than the previous year. Exports mark their best historical data, 8,160 million euros; 30% of Galician exports. So don't say here that Mr. Feijóo doesn't serve the automotive sector, because, like Mrs. González, you speak here and they said there isn't, Mr. Feijóo makes a balance that hasn't been serving Vigo, and that's a lie like a house and everyone knows it. Mr. Feijóo has fulfilled all his commitments with Vigo, starting with the automobile and getting the figures that there are and going through very complicated times. But Mr. Feijóo committed a hospital and made it, and committed a City of Justice and made it, and committed an intermodal station and made it, and committed a debugger and made it, the rehabilitation of the old helmet and made it, the expansion of the IFEVI and made it, the runways of Balados and made them, the metropolitan transport, the expansion of Navia, Stellantis, naval, health, the health center of Bouzas... do you want to continue? Of course, they can't come here and say cheerfully, as Mr. Knight does, here, Angelus, at noon, say that Feijou mistreats Vigo, because it's not true. And the figures are on the table and the balance is on the table. And I tell them one thing: it goes, in addition, with an investment commitment worth 40 million euros from here to the future. So the People's Party governments are with Vigo, and the Socialist Party governments are just in the mouth. They're just bluffing, because the decisions that the Socialist Party's governments are making right now are against the city of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u218	And right now against the automobile. So, I hope you approve unanimously, take note and pass it to the Government of Sánchez to make decisions that go in favour of Galicia and Vigo. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-26-DSPG078.u219	Thank you. One question. To me... we could say that the lost object department makes me feel that someone has forgotten these glasses. I'm saying that because they're necessary... did they appear? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are two? Are these yours? [[Murmurs.]] Well, that's it. See you tomorrow.
