ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of Parliament, so let us not read it. We don't justify inattentives and we're just going into the agenda. As a first point, a legislative text, which is the debate to take into account the proposed legislation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the improvement of primary care in the public health system in Galicia. Debate on the proposal for a law by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, for the improvement of primary care in the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u2	For the presentation of the bill you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u3	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning and thank you, Mr. President. In this full Monday, I hope you have a good weekend to be able to study the bill we bring. I'm sure you've all been studying it conscientiously, I'm paying attention to this, and I'm sure we're going to be able to get a very proactive debate. From our point of view, primary care in Galicia deserves such special attention as many other debates, but as far as the health plan is concerned, perhaps in a very particular way. Because, in view of the health situation in which we live, we deserve to reflect not only on the parts but also on the whole of the model of care we offer. Primary care, in fact, is probably the space of the system that needs to be rethinked more clearly. There is, from our point of view, a problem in primary care in Galicia, not exclusive to Galicia, but which has its differential facts in Galicia. Surely these differential facts are interpreted, as we usually see, in very positive terms by the Government and the group that supports it, but it is also true that there are many instances that we believe that we have to point out and try to improve. There's a problem of primary care in two fundamental plans, of course. But there are two fundamental plans: in terms of resources and in terms of a model of assistance. The care model is no longer valid. We intend to meet our population, primary care, with a model of the 1980s, the 1990s, very successful, very successful, but that's not enough for reality today, why? For all these arguments that we all know and repeat, but that it is necessary to repeat them constantly because they do not appear to be faced with the solutions. But they have to do with the aging of the population, with the territorial dispersion that exists in Galicia, with the capillaryness of primary care, which is one of the many virtues that you can have, but we can't face it as a model that is already exceeded. Chronicity shows the need to cope with improvement, the possibility that we have to outsource health care centers to patients, look at them in another plan, make a lot of prevention, if we have enough resources. That's why we have a problem, among other things. Today, the system is a doctor-centrer. If one passes through primary care it's practically impossible, by the way, not impossible, practically impossible, that doesn't happen almost at first, as if it were a node of bottle, by consulting the doctor or the doctor. And this is inefficient, absolutely inefficient. It's not about that health professionals... optional people don't have that capacity, of course, but it's about that, in fact, we're overloading consultations to do a lot of distribution work and, on other occasions, to solve constant urgency after constant urgency, and become ultimately professionals, in patients' interns. This prevents or prevents any other action. Or there are lukewarm attempts at solving, taken separately certain patches, but that don't face the reality of a model. Professionals have long demanded a system that can look like primary care screening. Now the known XIDE system is being implemented, but it's much warmer and even if you don't want to recognize it's a choice system, we'll also debate it today. It is necessary and essential to connect mental health to primary care, but this government, basically, that implemented was a system in which what it conceives as the primary connection to mental health is a psychologist for every 400,000 inhabitants. It probably can solve some problem, but it all points to the fact that it's impossible to solve them in a global way. The training of our professionals is enormous, but they don't develop properly because the system doesn't allow them that opportunity. Galicia is one of the last communities that incorporated improvements to the nursing decree, which powers and gives more training to nurses. We could talk about the need to incorporate management staff and services as well. Why? A lot of work that a doctor or a doctor does in a consultation is administrative, all that we've spent -- probably all of us here have been, more recently or less recently, but not long ago -- for a doctor or primary care doctor, and we see how much of the time they spend in front of the computer with us, not because they want it, but because they need it. We have a capacity to overbureaucracy the professionals who make the last one they can do at the end is clinical. So we also need management professionals and trained administrative services, personnel able to collaborate in the system, which there is no way of justifying that there is no staff there. The debate that personal lack in other plans is left for a moment, but it is impossible to justify that personal lack, which is not the will to hire. So we have a problem in primary care that focuses everything on doctors. What do we propose? We propose that the system be truly multidisciplinary, that is, primary care -- the health centers -- is not the place where primary doctors are, too, but it is a place where we have a care that, being very relevant to the presence of doctors and doctors, needs a lot of other professionals. We know that primary care has physiotherapists, do you know how much the average wait for a physiotherapist in Galicia is? They don't think in a week, they don't think in two weeks, they don't think in three weeks, they don't think in a month... it's unlikely, therefore, to have a nursing capacity. We never have enough, we're never going to have, at this recruitment rate that we've seen in recent years, especially because we spent eight years in Galicia without hiring a single physiotherapist. Then there was a big contract, it was assumed a lot, but it's been eight years without hiring and, therefore, we don't have a real multidisciplinaryity. We can talk about the need to incorporate podologists into the system, as other communities are doing, not Galicia. We could talk about the need to incorporate many more social workers, in Galicia this looks like a chimera. We could talk about incorporating professionals from different branches, why? Because that's our primary attention. It's not just about the doctor's consultation, this was the model in the eighties, but that's 40 years there and so we need to change. We defend multidisciplinary, which is real and effective. That's why there's a resource problem, a clear resource problem. We've been debating this on many occasions, and the data, the truth, are that they're powerful, quite powerful. Look, globally, Galicia is from the autonomous communities of Spain which is in the lower half of its spending on investment per inhabitant in health care. The investment per person we have in Galicia is in the bottom line. We can reinterpret this data as each one wants, but this is reality, there are more communities, some, a lot more, above and below. Let me show you a chart and allow me to do it because there's a detail in there that seems very interesting to me. [[Mr. Torrado shows a chart.]] This is the per capita investment graph for the budgets of 2022 in Spain. You can see the tallest, they're marked here in green: Euskadi, Asturias and Navarre; and you can see Galicia in the lower half, and you can see the last three. Let me think of it as a moment in the last three just for a detail, I'm not going to waste a lot of time. Do you remember when you came up here saying that there's no policy on health care? We've heard it many times. Do you know what the last three autonomous communities in Spain are investing in public health per inhabitant?: Murcia, Andalusia and Madrid; there will be no politics, but Murcia, Andalusia and Madrid. Randomly, casually, pure coincidence, this in statistics is certain to be considered a coincidence, I'm sure it's considered three out of three governed by the People's Party. Do you know how many rule the People's Party on the health you've best invested in? Not at all. When you say that you don't have to do health politics, you don't want others to do politics, you want to do yours, yes, no, yours, that's right, the others don't. And so that's what we're defending, there's a policy of prioritization or not on public health. You defend to reduce that investment, we demand to increase it. You want this in primary care in Galicia? Be at that level of investment. That the budgets... all the data they give me later on about staff, please quote me the sources, because if it's not impossible. The budgets that governments publish, and which are supposed to be valid, say that we have 976 professionals less today in primary than in 2009, 976 less!, will give them the exact data: 9,610, 2009 budget; 8,634, 2022 budget. This is the data, the other data you'll know where they come from. We have stopped training 151 family and community medicine professionals in Galicia in the last ten years. They quit, why? We don't know, no one can explain. Over the past five years, asked by the health barometer, Galician citizens said, five years ago, 13% that, if they could choose, they would choose to be treated in private; today they're already 19%, but the reality is that last year they've increased by 20% those who hired private insurance. Fewer personnel, less investment, increase people's transition to private health. This is the data, you interpret it as you like, but this is the data. What do we propose through this bill? Change the health legislation, why? To solve everything? No, no, no, no. We are not proposing a hyperrevolution, we believe that this would need a much deeper debate, that scientific societies already say, that workers' representatives already say, that user associations collaborate and participate, that systems in general are giving and that you, in fact, are listening but never doing. We're always opening commissions to talk about what, as everyone says, is already talked about and therefore we know what to do. What we propose is not a huge revolution, but we do propose to equate primary care to the rest of the healthcare system in a way that forces us to be better. Because if it's clear something is that there's something that's not working. So we made ourselves better. We don't propose anything that solves everything, but it does contribute to improvement for professionals and improvement for users, like? By improving the quality of the service, and how do we do that? Our proposal basically has an axis, an axis, it's true, symbolic about the image that has to limit waiting time for primary care, for consultation, for assistance. Why? Because until now, in hospital care, the Law of Guarantees, which is one of the ones we intend to modify, yes guarantee, yes guarantee that a citizen has the right to a top wait, in surgery, in diagnostic tests, in first consultation, but nothing for health centers, for our primary care. What do we propose? Get primary attention, to the limit. We mark two days, it's flexible, we can debate about it Why two days? Because in this room the PP has repeated it, the Counselor has said it many times that this is basically the means of waiting that we have in primary care in Galicia. It is true that since the opposition we have always found -- chance -- in many cases that lift it, but the Government gives data, that there is no reason to distrust them a priori, that there are many other places where the delays are perfectly met and therefore the average is -- we will take the government data in about two days. Well, this is what we also had, certainly, before the pandemic. What do we propose? Limit those two days, two days maximum. We know that asking for it isn't enough, it's not only worth making a diner, it's true, so we have to change some things. What do we propose to modify through this bill? First of all, to avoid something that does the Law of Guarantees that promoted the PP and that we believe that there is no need to do and, of course, in our proposal we limit it to primary care. That we can't solve delays by drifting to the concert, why? Because it's a bit of a trap that the system points to itself, legally, that if it takes time, it'll solve it by drifting it to private. This is a little cheating for us, because in the end the system is what decides what we want to derive and how much we don't want to derive. And we believe that we should try -- as we say -- to make ourselves better. We defend: we're not going to derive, we're not going to use that system, and what are we going to use? Something, that's right, revolutionary. Do we need to take care of it faster and better? We hire more staff. This is an extraordinary policy, this will not be elsewhere, but this is how we defend that, instead of deriving, we hire more professionals. In addition, we argue that hiring professionals is not randomly directed, we propose something surprising how to evaluate public policies. If we meet two days of primary care as a limit, what do we decide? Where these two days are often exceeded, let's point out these centers as personnel reinforcement priorities, because assuming as sure that the data offered by the Council limit about the average waiting to two days, is that there are places that meet perfectly and others that are not so much; that's what the averages say, basically. So we defend: we don't randomly hire, we don't randomly decide, we evaluate and put the resources where we need them. What do we also set up? That in order to contract we take into account these delays; and also a ratio, not of professionals per inhabitant, which, as we know, is called enough here because then it's not counted on casualties and non-replacements, but on professional care processes. Because the key to all this, what all the professionals are defending, is time, they need time to answer correctly. And, therefore, we have determined, through this proposal, that a ratio is legally established: how many people can serve a professional per day? This is for us to evaluate, decide and therefore promote quality. And this is what we propose through this regulation. There are other proposals, such as including in the law a certain balance between the ability to influence primary and hospital care management environments. That the reform proposed by the Government of the People's Party — which I proposed by this Government and the party that supports it — has eliminated primary care from the axes of decision; and we really believe that primary care is not a company of the rest of the system, but must be the really integrative axis. And, therefore, we need to balance. We propose that those staff paintings that have to define how many CAP professionals have to be in each center is not a question that is more difficult to consult than where the nuclear button is, but that we are able to understand what the staff board is and put in a regulation that determines it. We need that. In addition, we propose to increase the training of professionals. That's why we said there's a problem on the system. How do we do it? By proposing a new catalogue of diagnostic tests, i.e. that primary professionals have more capacity to ask for evidence and are not subject to a system that almost often compels them to ask for permission to do or to demand proof that until now we believe — at least, without anyone telling us otherwise — that they are perfectly qualified. So we defend a capacity to have greater quality assurance, professionals and users. And this is what we propose, the need to understand, therefore, that primary care is an axis and not a company. We defend this proposal, it's not revolution, but we believe it's a proposal that can improve the system. Equiparating primary care with the rest of the attention in terms of quality assurance and commitment to establish resources for us to lead a new model. And this is basically not to let it go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u5	...—I'm done, President— nor to the point that every government that exists can defend the data as it stands, but we are forced to be better. Because if we make ourselves better as legislators we will force governments to be better in the development of health policies; and therefore we will ensure quality. And this is what we propose. Do we want to be better at primary care, yes or no? To prevent this from being a matter of will and of words, we propose to bring it into law. And that's what we're proposing, voting in favour of this, which is what we're asking them to do, so we can all reform it into what's best for quality in our primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u7	This is what we propose and we hope they will vote for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u8	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u9	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. Unfortunately, health remains one of the most worrying elements of the Greeks and the Greeks, along with the economic-work situation, and for something to be. When a question doesn't pose any problem people aren't worried, if you're worried it's because you see you don't have the assistance you need. And at this point we need to continue to see that the People's Party at Galicia's Union of Health, in the 13 years of government of the Faixóo era, neither planned nor anticipated nor provided solutions. And the result is there: primary care, exhausted after these 13 years of being a health system trench, with less resources and less professional. And primary care based on proximity, accessibility, professional-patient direct contact, continuity of assistance, skipped by the air, even if you intend to deny it, Counselor. Because at the moment that every day there are many Greeks and Greeks who don't have a doctor assigned because there's no money; at the time that every day they meet a different person, at the time that professionals don't have time to care for the population, these foundations are totally dynamite, whether you recognize it or not. The consequence — I insist — of not planning and for 12 years to decide on the deterioration of public health and, in a special way, primary care as a genuine foundation of the health system. We have to repeat again that more than 80% of the health processes of the Greeks and the Greeks are resolved in primary care, and this would have to mean that it had to be the real priority of the Government: well endowed and resolute primary care in which the population was well cared for. Because that ends up being beneficial for that attention that the population receives and, in addition, it saves a lot of money to the system. If there's a well-equipped primary care, good attention to chronic people and all needs, you end up saving a lot of money to the system because people don't end up in emergencies, because people don't have to end up in hospital care. That's right, but the Popular Party's roadmap is in the opposite direction. And the evidence is there right now, there's no one left to tell the People's Party that things are not right in public health and especially in primary care. Professionals and population on all sides mobilized by claiming professional, claiming attention and claiming does not expect to be treated in primary care. And what's the situation? Well, a huge burden on primary care, lack of time for professionals to pay that attention. Remember that there aren't so many professionals who were claiming 10 minutes to serve the population, four days? And today we're in the situation that there's no attention, it's not that there's not even 5 or 3, it's that a lot of people are without attention. So they don't have time to explore, think, talk, interact, listen, propose diagnostic tests, analyze diagnostic tests, collect them and systematize them in the system. For that they need professionals and time and they don't have it, and they don't have it because there aren't those professionals. And what is the situation of primary care? Totally secondary. You removed the primary care addresses, you removed primary care agencies, you removed that resolution capacity, that ability to decide, that ability to put primary care in the first term, you eliminated it when you created the EOXI and you eliminated primary care agencies. And the technological advances and improvements in the infrastructures, really minimal. As much as you make window ads are minimal. And there's nothing but going to a lot of health centers where there's practically the doctor and the staff with the desk and the sink. No, there are some centers that have improved, most of them have not made that progress according to their needs, as much as they intend to say otherwise. They closed the consultants, the vast majority, with the excuse of the crisis, and they didn't open them. And we could continue here saying what the situation is. And we can talk about the CAP, where I can set an example for you, Counselor. This weekend, in the Pontevedra sanitary area, O Salnés, of 8 CAP, 6 with problems. In Caldas without a doctor, literally without a doctor; she had to leave the nurse alone to meet an emergency. Then that's the attention you're giving to the population, that's the attention you're giving to the population! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And therefore, of course, we must take the defense of public health seriously, we must take the defense of primary care seriously, because it is the foundation of the system. And that's why the BNG will vote in favour of this bill that brings the Socialist Party here today. And I'm also saying at the outset that, if the procedure is admitted, we would present amendments on issues that contain those that we do not exactly agree with, and others that do not contain, and that we believe that they are fundamental in addressing the problems of primary care. And this bill, which makes a proposal to amend two laws, on the one hand, to 12/2013, of guarantees, that is, times of health care, times of waiting; and, on the other hand, Galicia's Health Act. So, there are issues that we don't exactly agree with in the approach. Primary care if you have to characterize it is because there can't be waiting lists because it has to be immediately, because there has to be that proximity and immediacy. So we don't think there's any time to wait. Primary care can't wait and then we don't think there's time to wait. Or some question, as a question that sets out to replace the maximum number of users per professional is to put only the number of daily users. We think we have to put both things together, that there has to be a maximum daily, but that there has to be a maximum number of people assigned to each professional. It can't serve exclusively if there's a daily top, it's issues we think we'd have to nude. Just as the issue of setting criteria should not unilaterally make it to the Council of Galicia — whatever government it is — but it must be done in combination and listening to professionals and their representatives. The criteria for asking for diagnostic tests, the criteria for what kind of professionals, which must be done, must also take into account the voice of professionals who are there, and they are also the ones who know. And then there are issues that are not considered in this bill and that we believe are fundamental. First of all, it's the budgetary issue. We believe it is essential that primary care reaches 25% of the budget, because with the current 12% it is not possible. The current 12%, which is 2 and a half points below the average state, means that primary care today in Galicia has, applying the IPC, 277 million euros less than 13 years ago. And that's not possible, you have to get to 25%, you can't be 262 million under the average state. That's not possible. [[Applause]] That's not possible! [[Applause]] So we believe that we have to regulate by law also the issue of budgeting. [[Applause]] Retrieval of the agencies. We need to regain the capacity and management of the agencies, and it must be regulated by law so that this situation is not reached. We're actually in the 21st century, in the year 2022, and that's not a system where there's a doctor and a nurse who was considered auxiliary. We have professionals — I will not get tired of repeating it — new categories, new specialties, trained and capable. And that's why we think there's a need to introduce these new categories and that must be explicitly left, we've been demanding it for a long time. Clinical psychologists, starting with this, mental health care needs to be an absolute priority and professionals are required to pay that attention. And podologists, occupational therapists, logos... i.e. professionals who help to have truly more quality primary care. And service wallets need to be activated once and for all, that one can ask for direct consultation with the physical therapist. And that's what we have to do now, Counselor, don't wait any longer and say that we're in it, we have to do it now, and that's why we think it should be here. Just like ensuring presence. We believe that by law we have to guarantee face-to-faceness in primary care for everyone who needs it and asks for it. And we believe that it should also — and we would present amendments in the event that the procedure is allowed — in that direction as with regard to the guarantee law, ensure attention in a public centre. We believe that this must remain by law, since it is modified, in a public centre; and that a person who refuses to attend to it in a private center cannot remain his request, his need, put in a drawer. As is happening right now, those who refuse to be cared for in private centers spend months waiting in the drawer of Sergas. That's what's happening, yes, that's what's happening, and it can't be. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Just like the question of citizen participation. Citizen participation cannot be reflected in the law without then being complied with and in a way that is not concentrated on the headings in the health area, but also in the districts to approach that proximity. So there would be issues that we believe from BNG that should be included in a change of law, that would take measures to improve primary care. Which is a cry in citizenship, which is a cry in professionals, and it is a cry because primary care, is that foundation. And if primary care fails, everything fails; from there everything fails like a domino, like a castle of cards. And we cannot allow, Counsellor, honourable Members and Members of the People's Party, to continue to take primary attention to precipice. That's why we need correction. And that is why we are going to vote in favour of this bill; to which, if the procedure is accepted — I insist — we would present amendments for its improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u11	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is by law to acknowledge that the Government of the People's Party has not been or is today beyond the crisis that comes with primary care. The People's Party of Galicia and the Government of the Union have never denied that reforms in primary care were essential and, in fact, since 2018 in the Galician Health Service are being worked intensively in this restructuring. We're talking about doing it. To talk about it is what you do, to launch irresponsible proposals and frizz with politics. That's why Galicia voted on four concrete promises on four occasions, voted on facts, voted on the People's Party. Made like that necessary restructuring of primary care that drives Junta, because there were decades that the model had not changed and, in addition, it was necessary to introduce new features such as the characteristics of Galician population, which also suffered changes. Our community has an older population, and this involves more chronic pathology. Geographical dispersion and depopulation in certain areas are other factors to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, in good time you come to discover the needs of a primary care reform, always tow. But where are you when from Sergas come to explain all the reforms and improvements that have been moving forward in our community since 2018? This is a discovery law for the PSOE, not to mention veiled corrections. For example, they now discover that primary care is not the gateway, but it must be the vertebrate axis of the health system. You ignore the three appearances made by the Director-General for Health Planning this year — in the last year, I mean, in this Parliament — to explain the execution of a plan that takes exactly that title: For primary vertebrate care of the health system. And in what, long before the PSOE discovered that this was necessary, it proposed a profound transformation of primary care. You're late for this law, and you're confused about the way. If the goal was to regulate maximum waiting times by law, the mechanism they propose in this law is not the right one. Nothing has to do with the guarantee of waiting times in the hospital, which is restricted to certain pathologies to prioritize them over others. You are able to propose a maximum of two days' waiting for appointments in health centres, generally, without being able to differentiate matters that are urgent from other ordinary ones, such as the renewal of a recipe. This maximum time is impossible to generalize, even in the long run. If you parked the demagogy, you would recognize that, in view of the unavailability of professionals in the replacement lists, absences or casualties of medical staff sometimes lead to difficulties in coverage, having to choose options such as the distribution of coupons among the other doctors, affecting the availability of schedules. Yes, the emergency schedules are guaranteed, they never change. That's a matter that we have to clarify, emergencies are always guaranteed. I ask for consistency. Look, the same party that proposes these measures, the Socialist Party, is what has made it difficult for the Government of Madrid to comply with them. To ensure the proper functioning of primary care and minimum waiting times is key — and you know — to have more professionals. And today it's a certainty, that they won't be able to deny, that the Moncloa makes it impossible for Galicia to have more doctors. Today it is certain that Pedro Sánchez's PSOE is denying the extraordinary expansion of 64 extraordinary squares in the MIR that calls upon him to join, is denying the creation of the emergency medicine specialty and is denying the possibility of expanding the spare rates. You don't remove those limits we have. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that it is at least curious that the Socialist Party itself which proposes these measures here in Galicia should be able to make them difficult to comply with them from Madrid. For Galicia it is key to have more professionals and the main obstacle to achieve it has names and surnames: Pedro Sánchez Castejón in Madrid and Valentín González Formoso, who is his representative in Galicia. Rectify, be part of the solution, not the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the way to speed up medical appointments in health centers is not to try to extrapolate the mechanisms of the Guarantee Law. Law to which, by the way, the Socialist Party of Galicia seems to have become now, after vehemently opposed itself, because its words were that it would cause a massive drift to private, something that never happened. The way to speed up appointments in primary care is to work and continue to implement reorganization measures, measures being taken, such as quality agendas, service portfolios to enhance the capacities of categories other than doctors, the XIDE system — which we are going to talk about this afternoon — and the support of health personnel for those more bureaucratic medical acts. And, of course, beyond putting rules on a paper, you have to put on resources to support it, get staff to cover the family doctor's squares and accelerate medical care. And that's exactly what the Galician Union is doing. He's doing it, for example, by creating a new category, that of an optional primary specialist, to which, by the way, the Socialist Party voted against. Another point in the bill that you bring here is the request for diagnostic tests from primary. They must know that, although they have already been incorporated thanks to the implementation of the Primary Care Plan 2019-2021, the document For primary vertebrate health care of the health system collects, at the point of standardization of care processes, a common catalogue for the entire Sergas of diagnostic tests for primary care based on evidence, according to clinical practice and system equity. This point is already a reality thanks also to the integrated health areas, which you have also opposed, and which make it possible that primary doctors can already request any evidence they consider, the same way any specialist doctor does. And the instruction is there, it's there. They're late again. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Socialist Party of Galicia is trying to wash the face of the traps that since the Government of Spain and since the opposition in Galicia are made the necessary improvements to primary care. Any other interpretation is not possible because, if it's law that brings us here today, it's so advantageous, if this rule that you propose is so good, the logic would be to apply it or approve it in some community where they rule, and they haven't done it. Or it would also be logical for you to meet the demand of the left-wing groups in Madrid — including the Galego Nationalist Block — who make the Government there and ask that these peak times be established. And they're not heeding this request either. You want to be raised now as primary care saviors, but of course they're unreliable. While they defend here the withdrawal of replacement rates or the creation of the emergency medicine specialty, the Socialist Government in Madrid completely ignores these requests. And they're not reliable either because, in view of the historic steps that Junta is putting in place, as the recent offer of the new category of primary care specialist optional, which would allow and will allow doctors in difficult-to-cover squares, you oppose. I suppose to keep straining the gum of questions about health centers, when they know of the difficulties that exist in order to carry out substitutions when they don't have professionals. In short, Mr. Torrado, you prefer to argue instead of accompanying urgent and completely necessary measures in which Galicia takes the lead throughout Spain, which suffers exactly the same problems throughout the country, Mr. Torado, it is not Galicia, the whole country. And, of course, beyond putting rules on paper, you have to put on resources to support them. I insist, get staff to cover the family doctor's squares. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, more than they care about, what is clear and evident and measurable are all the progress and improvements that are being made with the implementation of the 2019-2021 primary care plan, a plan driven by the Board, drawn up by the hands of professionals, which brought with it the provision of more squares and more resources. A plan that, in conjunction with the development of the objective of the document By a primary vertebrate health system, is a fact valued by the Greeks, and evaluates them at each election appointment. And they're here to complete a job that started in 2018. Today the PSOE, ladies and gentlemen, is not a guarantee of improvement in the primary public care of our country, it is not in Galicia, where it approves initiatives that it then blocks in Madrid, and not where it governs. You take a lot of Asturias and I've been through the press the last week and, look, I bring you here articles to give and take. See, El País, March 30, 2012: Complaints about the collapse of Valencian primary care. The Ombudsman criticises the delay in large aid. ABC, 27 March: Primary care, to the limit after years of none. Nurses and administrative officers. And you set the example of Asturias. And, look, by chance, Mr. Torrado, by chance, statistics indicate that the average of patients treated by a family doctor is the same in Galicia as in Asturias. That's the example of management that you put there. And by chance, the worst ratios are in Aragon -- chance, PSOE --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u13	...in Castile-A Mancha—PSOE. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, you follow with the same mantra, you follow yours, the PP and the German Government will continue to work, worried and busy, with or without your support, to improve the Greek public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica roll. Author group of the bill, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u15	Thank you, President. Stop the rotary, which jumped the surprise: the PP is against and the blame is for Pedro Sánchez. Finally, I would like to thank you for the support expressed by the Galician Nationalist Block and its consideration of the possible improvements to the law, which you certainly have. Even, as we have proposed, it is not a law that has a global and absolute objective of the model, but a very specific part or what we consider the result of specific policies. The waiting time is maximum, it's not mandatory, that is, we weren't implementing the obligation to take two days, but we try to be a little realistic, but it's true that it has some improvements and, depending on that, we can even work on proposals in the future as well. For the People's Party we are irresponsible, demagogic, the blame is for Pedro Sánchez and the Government is doing everything very well. A case-in-case argumentary rather than John Wayne's horse. Anyway... [[Applause]] It's very hard to argue about the same story all the time. So I'm bored too, but I have to repeat it again. Look, the replenishment rate with Mr. Rajoy was at 10%, today is at 120%. We think it's possible or it's good that it's eliminated, but it's twelve times as much. Today you can hire twelve times more than Mr. Rajoy. It's true, Mrs. Amigo has said -just tell me if not - that Galicia has been taking a lot of action since 2018. I don't know if you realized you left all 2018 behind, I don't remember who was ruling here in 2017, in 2016, in 2015, it must be that... it must be that, well, I don't know, someone happened here, at last, I don't know. It would be something else. But Zapatero has passed, in Galicia he ruled... yes, I hope... at the end of the day, he left Feijóo yesterday and they're already denying his government, you're putting yourself here very quickly for the next president already, they're a little on the matter. Well, don't worry, calm down, I'm sure Mr. Rueda will put people in the place he deserves to be able to rule well. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, look, I think you've set an example here that's interesting, and it's that delays are something substantial to the system. We don't propose to limit the delay to zero, so we put two. It's been said that the BNG accuses us of one thing and you of the other, and we try to put ourselves in the central issue to be realistic. I just checked how long it would take me right now to ask for a renewal of a recipe: seven days; right now, uh! in my health center, I can consult, I have there the E-Health. Don't you think this is better? I mean, a consultation that takes 30 seconds, don't you think it's better? We think so. To give up that which is better, to us it is political will, and if it is political will, we believe that we must be forced to be better. They said Vigo's primary care professionals who resigned in 2018 who were managing misery, managing misery, that's what professionals say. From there, let's talk about what's needed. Let's talk where the MIR professionals are. I am grateful that they did not argue with me, at last, they did not discuss the data: we have a lower per capita expenditure, a per capita investment, in the lower half of the autonomous communities. We have fewer professionals today in primary care than in 2009 and nobody can say why we renounce 151 professionals. Do you want an extraordinary MIR? They won't give up on him! He had it and they gave it up, why did they leave without training professionals? Now they're demanding and they've given up forming them, why? Do you want an extraordinary MIR? We've been following the biggest MIR in history for four years, the greatest call in history. I'm sure it seems enough to you, too, but of course, what was unbearable was the summons with Mr. Rajoy, and here the Government Feijóo, quiet, because he cared about a curse, a curse. And this is the reality, you're now complaining about the things you've done. The emergency specialty, look, explain something to me, why didn't the People's Party implement it? Why? It's easy to answer, if you have an answer. When they answer me to this, I think we'd all be able to reach an agreement, when they answer me to that, but when they don't answer me, at last... Finally, we believe that this bill is intended to balance the system, because right now we have a problem with primary care and that it is disadvantaged in terms of resources and model, other levels of the system. We are not going into the debate of whom you considered to be integrating it sooner or later. Look, you defended and you have a model based on a document, a very global analysis that we've defended here, that I had the opportunity, on behalf of our group, to come here and offer an agreement that all the policies based on that study, for an integral attention to the health model, were adopted by agreement, and we thought it was a good way, and you voted against it. Let me know: if you're so good at this study, do you know who took care of it? To a former health adviser of the Socialist Party. Because you know that, when you have to know what to do in primary care, as they did in this case, you've been given an ex-counsel from the Socialist Party, who's the one they asked you to tell us how to do it, and you explained it to them. Do you know what's going on? That this model isn't adopting it, as the CEO told me. I was there, in that commission, which I don't know is where the others were, when I said, "I signed something I shared but now it's up to me to rule," he literally said. I think you're gonna keep your words on that. We defend that we will remain unbalanced. We believe that it is necessary to increase quality assurance, we believe that it is best that primary care has more influence on decisions, we believe that it is much better that primary care has a possibility of having more resources and that they are channelled -- be done -- based on realistic data. That seems, it seems, the natural nature of public policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u17	...and evaluate them to improve. It also seems natural to public policies. You want to keep leaving the system at the forefront of someone telling them everything's okay, who tells you everything's okay? You guys. We think it's better to force ourselves to be better, if you don't want that, that's a legitimate decision, but let me believe not only that we don't share it but that's a demagogic decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u18	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. After the debate, we proceeded to the vote on this legislative text, and in particular we voted to take account of the proposed legislation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia for the improvement of primary care in the public health system in Galicia. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, for the improvement of primary care in the public health system of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This is therefore rejected in the light of this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u19	We continue with the agenda item, appearances. Mr Advocate of the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the worrying situation of the German livestock sector for the increase in production costs To make this appearance, Mr. José González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u20	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, they know that whenever I come to the house of all the Greeks and Greeks, at my own request, I do it with the fundamental premise of reporting. In this sense, I think that the situation deserves it, after the months that we have been so convulsive and the last few days of special crisis in the German cattle sector, and also in Spanish, as a result of the cessation of transport. A halt in which, while the Central Government was committed to delaying a dialogue with the carriers, the Galician Union was at all times collaborating with the Greek agri-food industries to achieve the goal that there was no irreparable damage to our farmers and livestock. And always respecting the demands of the summoners, who were, at least in Galicia, small and medium-sized carriers drowned by the increase in fuel costs. Let me give you a first reflection, on this appearance, of the Council's work for the benefit of the Greek primary sector. I, you know, am convinced of the need to plan public performances, and under this perspective I have to move them that since the beginning of the processing of the food chain law Galicia has understood the importance of including in its articulated the prohibition of sales to losses, being always aware of the difficulties it would have assumed its implementation. While this change was being processed, we did our duties. We've done, we've started, we've approved, the strategy of the dairy sector, the strategy of the wine regions, and now we're working on the strategy of the meat sector. And we always talk about the need for our farmers and farmers to be able to calculate their production costs, anticipating that this was the essential issue for the viability of the ban. Even in the case of the dairy sector, we promote a computer app, which is known to us, the Milk Account, made available to all our owners free of charge. And today I move here that we are designing a similar application for the meat sector, within the framework of the strategy that is being developed, as always, in conjunction with that sector. During the parliamentary process in Congress and the Senate of the law, we clearly warned that we could not allow the ban to be left on paper. Control mechanisms had to be regulated to ensure effective compliance. From Galicia we are convinced that progress needs to be made towards systems that allow for the use of benchmarks of production costs by farm size range, based on objective, transparent, verifiable and non-manible studies and reports from public bodies, with strict methodology. And this path that we intend to open from Galicia and which will overcome the effective application of the loss ban, will have its first milestone this week with the signing of an agreement between the Rural Media Council, the Economic Vice-Presidentship and the Employment Council for the launch of the Greek Food Chain Observatory. It will also have participation in the Galicia Competition Commission. At the same time, I move them that we are working together with the Basque Country to consensualize the methodology that allows reports from our respective observatories to serve — and this is important — as a means of testing production costs. This is a matter that also requires the support of the Ministry and so we have transferred it to him. One of the consequences of planning is precisely the possibility of anticipating proposals for solving the problems that arise. Thus, the conviction of the importance of believing production costs in order to make the loss ban effective has already made it that last February 18 we, together with the agricultural professional organizations, will present the associations and cooperatives of representatives of the Greek dairy cattle farmers, a study on the evolution of the production costs of the dairy sector in the year 2021. In this line, the report, the study prepared by and for the sector, represented a further effort to know its state, so that it can act properly. In this study we found, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2021 the cost of production increased by 4 cents, from 36 to 40 cents of euro per litre of milk. Since the price of selling the milk of the year 2021 was at 33 cents on average, we believed a situation of selling to generalized losses, and I have to tell you that in the first months of this year 2022 we have an important rise of that price of milk, not yet sufficient but important: with February 2022 data at this time the average price of milk in Galicia is 36.6 cents. But it's true that in 2021 we were clearly against the law of the food chain because there was this situation of widespread loss, with a negative margin in the whole sector of the -2.3%, while in 2021 we had a positive margin of almost 6%. The report already warned of a generalized price rise of thought, above 15%, or a rise of 54% in the case of fuels, light or gas, or fertilizers, which are practically tripled their price. We have, of course, begun to warn the Ministry from the very first moment, to report on the situation, but at the first moment we also heard deaf ears. And in addition to reporting and warning, we started demanding and also acting. There was negotiating pressure from the Galician Union, constantly, intensely and I think it is also productive. Even six letters I sent to the minister warning of the widespread loss of the Greek dairy sector, and we also recorded it on four advisory councils and sectoral conferences. We were one of the autonomous communities I proposed - and we thank you, of course, for having held - an extraordinary sectoral conference on 16 March to be able to deal with these issues. On the same day of the presentation of these results, which alerted us to the situation of the milk beef sector, I made a number of demands to the Ministry, which have been agreed to, as I say, with the agricultural organizations and also with the Greek cooperatives. And basically — I will come back to this issue — we asked the Ministry to promote a great national agreement between industry, distribution and also the owners for an immediate rise in the price of milk. This situation, which has already been warned by Galicia in February, for sale to widespread losses, has obviously been aggravated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, through the intensification of the raw materials necessary for animal feed thought. In this field, the negotiator pressure of the Board to reverse the situation of sale to losses was the daily line of work, and the time is giving reason to the Board, because the results are coming. There are no medium and long-term solutions, but if you get help, help to highlight, help that, of course, are welcome in the short term. I refer to the package of aids approved last week, in Royal Decree Law 6/2022 of 26 March, which are for the dairy beef sector, ladies and gentlemen, an injection of 124 million euros, of which almost half will correspond to 6,400 Greek farms. A design of aid was made that took into account the demands of the cantabrian cornice for small and medium-sized farms, based on territorial basis, family farms that are, ultimately, the Galicians. I want to emphasize that these aids almost amount to 2 cents of euro per litre of milk produced. Do we applaud this measure? Yes, of course. Is it an aid to the sector? No doubt. Is it a medium- and long-term solution? No, no, no, no. Because the medium and long-term solution is clearly to raise the price of milk in the milk sector. The fact is that the problem arising from the Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed those forecasts we had in the report that, as I told you, we presented in February, because there has been a huge increase in the cost of cereals on the international market, and even we were at risk of world grain depletion. It has also made us step up the measures we demand, measures that I will bring here today in the Galician Parliament and reach three levels of administration: the European Union, of course; the Ministry, in the case of the Central Government; and the Council of the Rural Environment. But let me put some manifesto data on the increase in costs. For example, the international price of corn tonne contribution increased from 290 to 420 euros, 44% more, while wheat and barley also increased similar prices. I remind you that Ukraine is one of Spain's leading cereal suppliers. For example, we import 2.7 million tons of maize, which is 22% of Spanish imports; or 233,000 tons of sunflower cake — or also sunflower oil — in a very important way. This increase in production costs makes us feel that today we can state here before this Parliament that the whole of the Welsh cattle sector - milk and meat, pigmeat, poultry, poultry, sheep and goat - is in a situation at this time of widespread loss. And I want to move that it's particularly worrying about the case of beef cattle gain, specifically, the more than 8,000 farms of supreme Greek tenders. There is an increase in the price of meat of between 75 cents and 1 euro, and we do not see that there is an increase in the selling price of kilograms of meat to cover this increase; therefore, we hope that the impact plan of the Ministry — the remaining allocation of 193 million euros — will be taken into account, in particular, beef. We also urge the State to count on the autonomous communities in that division, because we also have to say how that division should be done. And so we moved it to the Minister at the Consultative Council of March 31st, as did the practice of all the autonomous communities. I repeat, they are direct aids that are, of course, necessary; that in the short term they solve the liquidity needs of our farms, but that they are not a solution in the medium and long term. In this area it is absolutely necessary for all food chain seals to assume the need for primary operators to receive for their products a price covering their production costs but the corresponding profit margin. In this regard, I have to say that the Union is again anticipating itself and becoming a pioneer by coordinating, precisely, the signature, on March 25, of a protocol of historical understanding within the chain of value of the flesh to achieve decent income for the gainers. A commitment to virtually all the distribution of the industry linked to the protected geographical indication of Ternera Galicia to comply with the Food Chain Act as regards compliance with the loss ban. It's the first thing that's done in Spain in all the autonomous communities, and I hope, of course, that it's not the last one. Defending in this case the quality Greek meat sector through the demand for suitable prices for its products; defending ultimately its viability in the medium and long term. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a protocol that can be signed in Galicia because we're talking about calves born in Welsh cattle farms, sacrificed in Greek facilities and marketed at 60% in the Greek territory. In this protocol it was also assumed by the Council of Galicia to finance, together with the Protected Geographical Indication, an advertising campaign of 1.4 million euros only this year 2022 for the promotion of Greek meat with an indicative quality, oriented, fundamentally, to the Ternera Galicia Supreme. And today I want to move here that since the Galician Union we will be vigilant so that the aforementioned protocol is strictly complied with by the different links of the value chain. And, in this sense, I am also quite surprised that there are agricultural organizations that represent the owners who have not signed this protocol, arguing that it is a post in the spirit of demobilizing the sector. It is not included in the content of key issues such as price, costs or industry commitments; as if we did not know what can be collected or not collected in accordance with the applicable legality! I am also surprised that there are political parties that continue to talk about minimum prices. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not yet understand that we have to move in the frameworks that determine the effective legality, namely competition rules? Can't you at once — especially, Bloc lords — support the Greek Government when it claims for our greedy measures that you even carry out in your electoral program? Can you not understand that the joint position of all the Greek parliamentary groups in the measures we have proposed — or already proposed — can give much more strength to our demands in Madrid? And, by the way, I look forward to seeing the vote justified — often repeated here — against the Law of Recovery of Galician Land, with a request made last week by its spokesperson to recover 200,000 hectares for the planting of cereals. They are inconsistencies derived from merely ideological positions that prevent them from supporting what they know is good for rural people because they propose it by the People's Party. [[Applause]] In addition to the description of the facts that I have come to transfer to them, I want to take advantage of this appearance to highlight the set of measures that the Galician Union considers essential for our primary sector and which are competent for the different levels of administrations involved. This is important, we have to work together with the different administrations that have competence in this area; I repeat: the European Union, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Rural Environment Council itself. Several of them are already under way, others require a boost; so I would ask that in their speeches, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of the Bloc, we be able to consensualize which of them we can demand among all. And I also hope for your proposals on measures that we can incorporate into the catalogue already proposed by the Council. The sector needs strong and immediate measures — I am not tired of saying it — because it is more important than taking extraordinary measures in extraordinary situations than doing so at the right time. I'm going to break down now the measures proposed by the Rural Councillory, ordered in 5 blocks. These are measures which, as I have already said, were placed on the Ministry's table on 16 March at the Extraordinary Sector Conference, which was requested by six autonomous communities — one of them, of course, Galicia. First of all, I would like to refer to the most important measures for me in the first block of measures, which is to achieve an immediate rise in prices — especially in the whole sector — and compliance with the ban on sales to losses. As I've said before, the yellow sheep sector is in a state of widespread loss sale and therefore we are failing to comply, at least, with two articles of the Food Chain Act: 9.1 (c) and Article 12.ter, which prohibits the destruction of value in the string. But this request — the request to raise prices, the request for the loss ban to be complied with — was also the request made by the more than 400,000 rural inhabitants who expressed themselves in Madrid on 20 March. They immediately called for compliance with the Food Chain Act to be effective as regards the prohibition of sale to losses. The livestock sector, ladies and gentlemen, wants the law to be complied with and the price paid for its products is their price, which — I repeat — is production costs but the corresponding profit margin. Direct help is welcome and necessary, but it's not the tool to enforce the law. I am also not the medium or long-term solution that the primary sector needs or wants, and that was the request made in Madrid. As I told you earlier, on February 18, we proposed to the Ministry, MAPA, that it should promote a great deal of agreement or memorandum of understanding between distribution, industry and the dairy sector at national level. Distribution and industry should enable mechanisms to increase the current price of sales contracts for gainful products. And at that time we are asking for a temporary emergency premium that would ensure the viability and economic sustainability of the sector. We were told in Madrid that we could not sign an agreement on these characteristics, but I remind you that last March 25 we coordinated the signing of this protocol for the meat sector in the Protected Geographical Indication of Ternera Galicia; therefore, if one can sign, if one can do it, and it is a matter of political will. [[Applause]] With this kind of protocol we must achieve, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the low negotiator capacity that the operators of this sector have, to achieve the objective that prices start to rise and thus cover the significant increase in costs. It is quite a priority for the food chain to see the immediate need to raise the prices of livestock products — I repeat — to ensure the viability and economic sustainability of the sector. Each link in the string must be able to support the previous one, cover the costs of the previous operator and generate value; that is, have a profit margin that allows the effective viability of the primary sector. And in this area of rising prices and complying with the loss ban, we also ask the Ministry to enable specific control mechanisms to ensure compliance with the loss ban. We've warned from the very first moment that we couldn't afford this ban to stay on wet paper. Look, the law transfers control skills to us, but without money or technical means. And we have asked the Government — which has so far had the powers of AICA — to give us technical and financial support for the exercise of this control. And in order to ensure compliance with the loss ban, we ask the Central Government to regulate the Food Chain Act that one of the proof of production costs is, precisely, reports from food chain observatories, such as what we are going to constitute in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, this measure is transcendent, you cannot believe the situation of sale to contract contract losses. We have to use reports issued by official bodies by operating size ranges. And we ask the Central Government that in reforming the Food Chain Act, or in their development arrangements, it be clear that this is a means of proof of these production costs. And we also demand in this area that the Milky Account — which has already been approved by the Galician Council — be also recognised as a test mechanism for production costs and give more effectiveness to our owners in negotiating the milk price. By the way, the Milky Account is a mechanism that has been criticized here and yet is assumed by other autonomous communities such as Cantabria and Catalonia. The first block of measures, as I have told you, are precisely those designed to raise the price of products. In some ideology we speak of fair prices, we talk of production costs but profit margin; therefore, we clearly focus on the prohibition of selling to losses. The second block of measures is the financial measures to provide liquidity to the livestock sector, because while we wait for medium and long-term solutions it is necessary to provide liquidity to our entire livestock sector. Certainly, the aid announced in Royal Decree Law 6/2022 is a step forward in this demand, specifically, for the milk cow, with these EUR 124 million, of which we expect around 60 million to correspond to the Greek gain. What we are asking is that the negotiations of the 194 million which are planned for the sectors affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine give clear priority — and I hope that we all agree — to the beef cow. And I also have to take care of these small and medium-sized farms of a territorial basis, of a family nature, which are the defenders of our territory and which are those that characterize Ternera Galicia Supreme in this case. [[Applause]] But in addition to direct aid, we also enable liquidity lines for our farmers and livestock. As has already been announced in the Council of the Union, first of all, the advance of the 2022 CAP — which is up to EUR 200 million — through an agreement with the financial institutions in which this advance is made without financial costs because it grants them to the Council of Galicia. But also the opening of a liquidity line, with loans of up to EUR 30,000, with a total amount of EUR 25 million, which will also be endorsed by the Board and which will have the grant of financial costs. Here, on 16 March, we ask the Minister to expand also the liquidity line that the state public agency SAECA has. And we also asked him for a one-year moratorium on the capital amortisations of our long-term live loans. Here we require the support of the Central Government so that financial institutions can do so without having to provide those loans. The third block of measures has to do with avoiding the depletion of cereals for animal nutrition. And here Galicia has done jobs, together - and I would like to thank you - with the Galaga Association of Thought Manufacturers for convincing the central government of the importance of ensuring precisely that the import of cereals from other countries, such as Argentina or the United States, has been allowed to be relaxed. But we call for it to be deepened by the possibility of having imports from other parts of Ukraine. The fourth block of measures is clearly linked to expanding the areas necessary for grain planting. This was also a March 16 demand that was collected in Royal Decree Law 6/2022, which, as you know, allows to plant this year on barbecue surfaces, on surfaces of ecological interest. Not that there are many in Galicia but yes in the whole of Spain, because we speak of more than 600,000 hectares. But in the medium and long term we have to increase — no doubt, ladies — the territorial base of our farms as a mechanism to reduce their dependence on foreign grain. And here they will play a fundamental role both the partial mergers and the different instruments of the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. And finally, as I told you, of the five blocks of measures, with the fifth block, which are measures to convert or recognize what is already the primary sector in a strategic sector of our economy. And here we proposed to the Central Government on 16 March, the creation of a high-level group between autonomous and central governments to promote measures, fiscal and labour improvements that are truly substantial to our primary sector. It is enough patches, it is enough to make small aid in terms of taxation and employment. And if we really consider our primary sector as a strategic sector, as a sector that fights against the abandonment of rural areas and against the demographic challenge, we need complete and axile solutions. We need a bill that actually collects all these tax and labor improvements and clearly bets on the primary sector. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the measures we're working on. We have done our duty to press in the negotiations, we have achieved the goal that the most affected sectors in Galicia were respected in that shock plan — I repeat, these EUR 124 million for the milk sector — and we hope now — I repeat — that we should take into account — how we have, by the way, transferred all the communities in the cantabrian cortex and the practice of all the autonomous communities — the beef cattle in the distribution of EUR 194 million. And I would also like to reinforce three other measures that we are developing and that we also consider to be very important. First of all, as I've told you, the Observatory of the Galician Food Chain, which is currently being dealt with in the decree of structure of the Rural Council and which has as its primary objective this study of the production costs that enables us to test the production costs of each of the winners, in order to improve their negotiating position. The launch of the Galician Food Information and Control Agency. There's obviously a transfer of that competition from the Central Government to the Council. We demand economic means as well as technical means, but in any case, we are going to put it into action, as a fundamental mechanism to check the ban on sales to losses. And in the dairy sector, which is so important to our rural population, the creation of the Milky Way Observatory — if they want to be called the Milky Way Bureau — as a body where the relationship between the different links in the value chain is formally depicted. These, ladies, are a first battery of measures to defend our livestock sector. We don't stand still, but we demand that the European Union and the Central Government also comply with their powers, and I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is inaction by the other levels of administration, the Council of Galicia will do everything in its hands and scope of competition for the defense of our owners. We are talking about a strategic sector of the Welsh economy, which has fed us in the pandemic and which is a key element in the fight against depopulation and against the abandonment of rural territory. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector is feeding us, now it's our turn to feed it. Now we are the ones who have to be able to take the necessary measures in their defense, because, as I said earlier, in extraordinary situations, we must take extraordinary measures. It's much more important to take them at the right time and in the right way. This is the time to decide and make quick but effective decisions, all of which are so decisive that a sector as essential as the owner demands it. I have already finished my shift and remain attentive to their interventions, and I sincerely hope to find in them the consensus of the importance of helping us work to contain the crisis that is suffering from our livestock sector. Because I repeat that in this situation we all have to be aware, we are all responsible and all, ladies and gentlemen, we can all bring something. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u21	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Now, first of all, before we move on to the groups, we greet the students of the IES information technology cycle of the Barral de Ponteareas, Pontevedra, who have just entered the Chamber. Good morning and thank you for coming with us. And following the debate you now have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mr Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u22	Thank you very much, President. I also want to welcome those who come to hear us today. I wanted to start by conveying, firstly, the support and affection of our group to the families, friends and colleagues of the worker who died in the Coruña refinery last week, and wish the other affected worker a prompt recovery. No one should die practicing his profession and we should be guaranteed to put on the table any formulas that make this possible. [[Applause]] Mr. González Vázquez, in the Party of the Socialists of Galicia we are aware of this serious situation that is living the primary sector, resulting from the international crisis, with high prices of energy and raw materials, which has become unbearable for the effects of war in Ukraine. And in these times of crisis, Counsellor, we understand that we must all be aware of the circumstances, but if anyone should be able to meet those are the ones who govern us, both at the European level and at the level of the Central Government and also of the Government of Galicia, which has the competences in agriculture and would gain our country. Mr Counsellor, you, who hold ongoing meetings of the Advisory Council with the Ministry of Agriculture, could tell the absent President of the Galician Union that Galicia cannot afford a part-time president and should answer the tendency we cast from the opposition to commit joint measures to alleviate the effects of the crisis. And in reaching the shoulder that we all must have as a flag in this situation, I do not find you or your government, because while the Government of the State acts measures to help the most affected sectors, as you well listed here, we all wonder where is the Council of Galicia and where is its president? A president more concerned about walking through Seville than serving the Greeks and the Greeks who voted for him mostly. I thought that what I loved was freedom and that's why I wanted to go and live in Madrid was Feijóo and change that lie that he repeated to us continuously from Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, to serve Mrs. Ayuso's unethical behaviors. But we see how you also share that love for Madrid and go to the capital to put yourself at the foot of the banner of a fair claim from the German gorge, as if you had nothing to do to fight against that crisis that we are living in. [[Applause]] A whole statement of intent from the Galician Union, which, instead of looking for and using the DOG to find solutions to our agricultural sector from their responsibilities, prefers to take advantage of their time to go to Madrid and get behind a sign. I see how the Government of Spain negotiates with the rest of the governments of Europe to be able to articulate measures to alleviate the problems of the crisis that we are suffering from the prices of energy and raw materials. First, by making the energy framework more flexible to take more measures that undermine the very high tariffs that pay the citizenship of a system inherited, by the way, from you, the People's Party, and by getting European funds to help the affected sectors. I see how later the Government of the State activates a million-dollar fund of aid for these sectors, which we already know is not the long-term solution, but it is now needed. But from the German Government, I can see only one of the rural councillors behind a sign trying to wash their bad consciences for being incapable that until today he had not been published in the DOG, not a single euro of his own from the Galician Union to help our productive sectors. The Government of the State approved a few days ago aid for around 360 million euros for the agricultural sector. Of these, 169 are specifically for the dairy sector and 193, for the rest of the livestock farming sector, in addition to benefiting from the reduction of 20 cents per litre of fuel, which is an impact of some EUR 78 million for farmers. The dairy sector will receive about 124 million euros and Galicia will be one of the great beneficiaries, as you said, and it remains to see the distribution that will be made of these 193 million for the agricultural and livestock sectors, 65 coming from Europe and supplemented with 128 million, that is, putting 200% more by the Spanish State. It is now time for the Galician Union to say and publish how much it will put on its own funds to help the agricultural sectors and where it will dedicate them, since we listen to the President's flight from Galicia to say, on March 24, that he asked the Government of the State to put the same thing that he put on the European Union, that is, another 65 million, but they put 128. And he also said that the autonomous communities should put among all the same as the Government of the State, and he committed himself to supporting the sectors with own funds in the amount it was corresponding to. These are the words of the president of the board. Mr. González Vázquez, what is the amount to be allocated to the Galician Union for own-funding aid to our agricultural and livestock sectors? What sectors are you going to target for your advice? Because if the Government of the State places 169 for the dairy sector and 128 for other agricultural sectors, we are waiting to see their media announcements published in some official bulletin and see what the commitment of the Government of Greece to our agriculture and gain. I remind you that there are sectors such as the meat sector, whether it's beef, it's been undergoing a structural crisis for a long time, aggravated by the pandemic crisis, such as other sectors such as chicken, pork or rabbit meat, which are also suffering the crisis resulting from these energy prices, which should also be met by the Greek administration. You yourself told the media these days that this crisis is affecting Galicia to a greater extent. And do you know why this is this, Counselor? Because when a sector has damaged cements, a structural crisis resulting from the absolute failure of public policies that guide our productive sectors for decades, when a storm strikes our entire sector comes down. You yourself said, when you announced that there were certain dates that there was a risk of missing the livestock sector... by the way, you said it without placing a single measure of the German Government on the table to help the agricultural sector... well, of course, you were talking about two. On the one hand, subsidising interest in advance of the CAP's direct aid to provide liquidity to holdings and, on the other hand, opening up credit lines of up to EUR 20,000 in order to meet purchases and circulation by the glovers endorsed by the Union. And they said this was what they could do from their powers. The whole of a German Government, full of revenue, which is shown to be a simple financial entity that can only provide the livestock sector with loans and pay interest and advances from the CAP. If that's all you have to bring in this crisis the Rural Councillory, it's normal to hide behind a banner criticizing what the State Government does. But the reality is that in Galicia the livestock receive an average of 35.9 cents per litre of milk, when in Spain the average is 37.1. And being in line with the state as a whole, none of this makes them reflect and take measures to change this situation. We have less than 25% of the useful agricultural surface, half the rest of Spain and the tail of all Europe, and now we're taking our hands to the head for so much dependence on the import of foreign inputs. We produce 40% of the milk from all over Spain and we only provide 11% of the billing from all over the state and 7% of the job. Galician milk runs at 48% unprocessed and the milk left on our land is used for packaging as liquid milk, which leaves, as you well know, less value added, and all this before your eyes. But come here and talk about the rest. If you want to talk about the law of the chain, a law that had to be amended by the current government, derived from a law that had passed the People's Party which was not absolutely worth anything, an amendment which the agricultural organizations themselves have qualified as positive, but needs the Galician Union to activate mechanisms necessary to enforce the rule of law. Yes, Counsellor, we see as other governments, such as Castile-A Mancha, put in place the Food Chain Price Observatory, where representatives from all over the sector are present. But while in Galicia you keep talking about others and you keep waiting, criticizing the government of the state, and you should get to work. The meat sector, as you well said, has been agonizing for a long time. During the whole 2021 we've been presenting initiatives that would come to you through one ear and go through the other. Everything was reduced to the elaboration of a supposed magic effect of the elaboration of a strategic plan that they were drawing up. And now, Counsellor, why have they refused to use the maximum allowable by Europe of the RDP to assist meat holdings? Why did they refuse for months to set in motion a price observatory as we asked? Why did they refuse to promote contracts approved at a specified price and above those costs, when they knew that up to 2021 the price that the owners received for the meat that they produced had increased only 12% and, on the other hand, up to 2021 the CPI had grown 33% and the production costs of the holdings had risen by 38%? When they know, in addition, that these farms not only produce high-quality meat, they are essential to fight against the abandonment of our rural areas. Unfortunately, four days ago, they woke up from their sleep and understood that they could use their skills and come together with the sector to sign a document that ultimately compromises all beef agents to have fair prices, starting from a production cost that you committed to establish. We've been putting forward initiatives for months, looking at how they voted again and again against the creation of a price observatory and it turns out that in the end you could sit with the members of the sector to get paid above production costs, and you can put in place mechanisms to establish these costs and control systems for compliance with the agreements. And if you can do this with meat, you can also do it with milk, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u24	They work and do something to take economic measures to support the productive sectors, increase the territorial base, ensure compliance with the law of the chain and encourage our high quality products to balance the food balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u26	Our agricultural sector can't wait any longer, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. We'd like to know when we return the competency to the central government, because, according to what you've stated, it's all the fault of the central government and you have no competition. Counsellor, from BNG we ask you for a minimum of seriousness, a minimum. A government with a minimum of decency, faced with such a serious situation as the one that occurred these fifteen days ago, would have acted. At least he would have appointed a crisis cabinet, and he would have worked on his solution. The feeling we had, citizenship in general and rural people in particular, was of absolute abandonment to our fate. I'll tell you. President Fexóo, of the apotheotic tour of Spain ahead, included, with red flags that are not seen in the hands of the PP since they were able to sing the one of Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, and the country in paralysis. You, from Madrid, state that it is necessary for the Ministry of Agriculture to meet with the main representatives of the distribution to raise both the prices of milk... and the farms, not concentrated to feed their animals. After several days of absence, ask the Government Delegation to enable runners to listen to trucks loaded with animal food, cereals or milk gathering, and milk, to the well of purin. Meanwhile, your secretary-general charges the central government by supporting the transporters on their unemployment and blockade, and the country in collapse. And it goes the PP and, breaking drastically of style, puts itself behind the banners and tests Monday the honey of the demonstrations, strikes and scratches. And the governments, each and every other, missing, the different sectors affected by trading with each other, in a supreme effort to save the furniture in this fire that we all feared. And so the thinkers came to agreements with the strikers so that they could continue to manufacture and avoid death from our glovery, grounded and subjected to external inputs. Commanders of the Supreme negotiated in two bands in one of the nine slaughterhouses surrounded and tried to reach agreements to prevent the ruin, the closure and sale of the animals. This is the portrait of a despair. Because in the eyes of the ganderers, the transporters, the eyes of the rural, the most seen is despair, sorrow and desolation, a flight forward, tired of waiting, because the rural, Mr. Counsellor, is tired of waiting for the warmth and common sense, and the rest that are not rural as well. But let's talk about the countryside. The prices of the inputs were rising from the beginning of last year, and nothing was done, except a month ago, when they decided to bring together the agricultural organizations to make a manifesto to the central government demanding an emergency premium of four cents per litre. The beef had dropped to 50 cents -- 20 cents -- and you hadn't found out. And in a worse situation than milk, I expected the miracle, a miracle that didn't happen. It's a miracle that the German Government had to mediate and order in the conflict, tired of being naïve by industry and, above all, by distribution. Let's see: Vegalsa Eroski, Mercadona, Carrefour, Girls -- it's necessary to name them -- they're the ones who deny the fair price to the owners, and they're their friends, they're the ones that you're receiving apart. Yes, yes, they are the ones that you receive in part and, oh, miracle!, as in magic art, Friday, 25th of last month comes out the news that a protocol of a historic agreement was signed. It is said between distribution, Galician meat industries, distribution chains, an agricultural organization and IXP Ternera Galicia — excuse me, Galicia, as you pray in the document — for the protection of beef farms. We started well. Only two pearls so the lords who have the deference to listen to us can have an idea of the content. First, he writes: "Considering that the current situation endangers the viability of the beef sector, making it necessary to ensure, exceptionally and temporarily limited, its economic sustainability". Exceptionally and temporarily!, that's a great historical agreement, man! Another: "The distribution chains with presence in Galicia's territory signatories to this protocol assume the commitment of compliance with Article 12b of the Food Chain Act". I mean, since we don't want to do it, we never do it, now we're going to make an exception and for a couple of months we're going to do it. Man, this has no way, it has no way! [[Applause]] Suddenly, Counselor, everything has gone back to negotiation and come letters to the communist minister of Sanchez, and those concentrated with congested and unpicked milk and the rural people, with defeat syndrome. Yes, defeated, since 2015 defeated, defeated by the ineptitude of this government, and Rajoy's, too. That 2015 dairy agreement that is part of the defeat was sponsored by Minister Tejerina, or not? And whose minister was he? And yes, I came from behind, and Putin goes, with that communist, Vietnamese, Palestinian, Yemeni, Jewish, separatist... and invades Ukraine. And there goes part of our useful agrarian surface, because we had it there, you know. We have out of our territory 500,000 hectares of useful agricultural land and we have 13% of crops. And now this old man reminds you, Counsellor, of the reform of the 1992 CAP, which has drastically reduced the cultivation of cereals, which has paid to stop working the land, which has drove the old people out of this country saying what do we do? They pay for stopping work, this... the world is over. Yes, that's how it was, what so baffled our farmers and peasants, paid for not working, and we planted pine and eucalyptus, if Europe needed cellulose and paper to clean knows God knows that. And you see, there began the cleansing of our rural areas: abandonment of production, depopulation, sadness, eucalyptization and the new wind fashion, that threat to territory and people. Suárez Canal and his team warned and started the treatment: Table of Milk, observatories, approved contracts, what sound to him? And the land bank law, what's it to you? And you arrived in 2009, and, in an act of political vandalism -- political vandalism! -- everything was done. You know what it's like to grow up, don't you? Shaved table. And they plunged into a deep transcendental meditation that lasted thirteen years, being now in a lapse of dissipation to change from meditative posture and follow it. Because, why does your government allow milk and meat to be used by distribution as a claim product and that in that work of exhausting production these companies, these food lobes, extortion, mafialy extortion and do everything by dominating the market with white marks? [[Applause]] And both PSOE and PP, the two major parties in the state, concealing from the law of the food chain. Because this last reform was almost a dissimulum, it only has a 12 ter advance. Yes, yes, and or 9c.1), what? And you voted against the reform that BNG presented. Yes, yes, yes. I repeat, Article 9(c), paragraph 1, amend to the BNG: "The content in the preceding paragraph shall in no case constitute the requirement for each holding to show its own production costs — whether or not it is the first cactus — to be allowed to be used to determine them, in addition to the sources of the Ministry of Agriculture, such as the Crea, the Rengrati and the studies published by...". You voted against it, voted against the last reform, you don't deny it, and that can't be removed from your political life curriculum in life! Yes, people don't know because their media, which are almost all of them, hides these things, which are vital, are vital. You, the Members of these two parties, from Galicia seica, did not consider the productive sectors of our rural areas strategic. They're from town, and they don't practice hiking, huh? And now tell us milongas, what you want, because this is the millionth of the agribusiness issue: an acceptable price for primary products, a de facto loss ban, in fact, pursuing the product claim of distribution to the producer's account, creating mechanisms to establish production costs objectively as a reference for contracts. This is the point of the matter. They're no longer remembered by the 80s and the 90s of the last century, a fragile memory of interest. Because then, Counselor, the children in the countryside were playing to be gloved and gloved, to manage machinery, to ensile, to make cheeses, to throw potatoes, to upgrade grassland... do you know why? Because milk was worth money, because the agricultural product was worth money, and people grew, lived, and people knew what? Life smiled at him despite hard work and promised a future of dignity. That's the magic word, the future, and that's the word that we have to conjugate you, us and the Socialist Party, but it properly conjugates. Because continuing to drag this situation is suicide for our sector, for our primary sector and for the whole country. Let's see why. Galicia imports — as you well said — data from 2017 -- 3 million tons of food supplies from its glove house, which is equivalent to 500,000 hectares of cultivation. If the mild wheat that Galicia produces today had all human food we would have barely for a month. This is barbarity, it's barbarity. If we were to use all the wheat that is grown in Galicia in one year, we would have to feed our population for a month. This is our reality. Do you understand what we're saying? There's no other time. Now tell us what you want, about the goodness of our flesh, about our milk, about our farmers, about our businessmen, about what you want, because this sector, about its future, about stability, should be settled on a solid agricultural production of cereals, like not to be threatening the bankruptcy of every two by three, when the wind changes air. They should dynamize agriculture and the economy by stimulating an industry of their own food transformation that would provide both internal and external trade in a way. It's called, you know, food sovereignty. You know what? Now they admit the word, before... "These are the independentists, they are the catastropheists." [[Applause]] No, no, we're the realists. And besides, I'm telling you one thing: we're the ones who're going to pass them on to your opposition, so I see what you've said here now, they're already exercising. They're exercising for when they move on to the opposition promptly, because if this country doesn't have another way out. Let's see, what would it be hard for you to set up the irrigation of the Lemos Valley to recover your cereal production? And the other seas of bread? Those mothers of old bread. What would it cost to recover those and other lands and others and others that are being abandoned or underutilized. What would be the cost of diversifying agricultural activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u30	...and not play it all on one or two cards? The invasion of Ukraine leaves this ridiculous 13% of own cultivated area uncovered, and it settles entirely in a food production that is jammed at each blow of the wind. It's the second warning within two years. We perfect the law of land recovery and mobilize land. That's what you've truncated in 2009, you don't forget, you don't forget, the law of the land bank has albiscized the problem and it's beginning to solve it, and this doesn't work out in a year or two, it needs long cycles to do it right, and you're not ready, so we vote against it. That's why we vote against, we don't trust those who change their words and their jacket in a short time, we don't trust those who enter like an elephant in the casket, and then they want to hit Lotite with the destroyed caskets. No, we don't communicate with mill wheels, Counselor. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u32	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Rivas, what the Galician Nationalist Block will not be able to delete from its political curriculum is to vote in favour of supporting Pedro Sánchez, the worst president who has and will have this country. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And, of course and speaking of lessons of decency, perhaps the first lesson of decency that should do, after listening to it, is precisely to withdraw his support and withdraw every referendum and every act of support that he has with that party when he rules in all institutions, of which he is absolutely necessary co-operative. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Seco, until now, to this day, this Parliament is absent only Mr. Francisco Rivera, to whom this group wishes the best personal success and luck. One respect, please, one respect for the internal activity of the parties! And one respect for a president who keeps working more than ever... — I don't know why they're so nervous — because it's obvious that... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u34	... probably won't pay me much attention. And they believe that, to understand the measures that are going to be put in place and that it is putting in place the Rural Middle Council for the primary sector, which was the object of this appearance, they must first attend to it and then understand. [[Murmurs.]] And if they don't, they're definitely not going to make any deal. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, they seem to be much more concerned than what happens outside this house, and that makes us absolutely irresponsible, because it's not for what they were elected, of course, at this moment in the opposition — Mr Rivas, in the opposition — and always putting forward what brings us here today, which is to analyze a vital sector in our autonomous community. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] A vital sector in our country, which, of course, counts on a serious and responsible work, which this group defends, of the Rural Environment Council. And he came today, Mr. Counsellor, to inform you, and I want to thank you, because what our farmers and livestockmen are demanding at the moment is not those ruthless and unfounded attacks of the opposition, but really the measures that will affect them directly to their economy. And I have to say this -- you said here and I repeat it: the Government is not in the right position, deliberately delayed an agreement between the transporters, mainly the small carriers, even though it may endanger irreparable damage to our primary sector; failing at the bottom and failing in the forms. And I have to admit and thank you here today that the Government of Galician Union has been very present, very, very led by you, by the Rural Council; also by other advisors, who have been in a discreet manner, in a responsible way, without demagogy, treating all alike. Because there are those who, if many socialists had been raised, when they heard some minister say that "with some I don't feel myself because they're small and they're not representative," failing at the bottom and failing in the forms. And I'm telling you here today because it's easy to prove that the German Government has been up to the circumstances. I appreciate that availability. I appreciate that job. And I appreciate it when you talk about really important. He always said that the key is to comply with the Value Chain Law. And you talked about measures, did you hear both by the voicer of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party any concrete measures that could bring any added value in that package that Mr. Counsellor said? Did you hear any positive proposals? You are still much more concerned about wearing out the German Government, about wearing off Mr. Feijóo than about being useful to the Greeks, and on that way they go wrong, gentlemen, they go very badly! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You always said that the key to success in life, but especially in political action, is planning. God and prove it. And I also have to recognize it here today, because I'm talking to a lot of thugs -- as surely you're going to talk -- and it gets more and more heard that no contracts can be signed under 40 cents. And when they win those contracts, I have an interest in following up on the negotiating capabilities, and the neighbors and neighbors themselves are going to transfer the price they get in each contract. And that starts to be a reality and it's worthy and fair to recognize it. For the first time you're talking, internalizing all parts of the chain, that you can't actually sign contracts for losses; that's a job for everyone, a responsibility for everyone. And by demonizing or territorializing primary sector problems in Galicia, thinking that's how they wear Feijóo, they're wrong, and I'm telling them why. This first trimester this year we've seen a lot of farmers and livestock that went out the street. And I know that you, who are always committed to giving meats of good and bad gales, because now they also give them good and bad demonstrators. And if the gloves go out into the street and claim in the stremadura -- you know who the government is, right? -- in Asturias -- you know who the government is? -- in Navarre they go out into the street saying, "The situation is unsustainable." [[Laughter]] It's not a Greek problem, Mr. Rivas, you have to analyze the situation in economic analysis beyond Pedraphyta. [[Murmurs.]] Because, undoubtedly, we are on a European stage, on a global market, and you have to recognise and analyse with rigour. Forget about "the worst thing," forget about it, it's wrong, maybe at a time of economic crisis that we're living in right now. These are realities (The honourable Member shows photos to the House.. They are wrong to say that these people belong to an ultra-right movement, because that is another, everyone who has now contradicted the Ethical Government of ultra-right. But it's absolutely inexplicable! But if there is someone who deals with ultras, what a pact political projects of dubious support are you, it is you! The rest are apolitical. It's a demonstration of many thugs... but why are you laughing? Do you think a farmer who spends his trip to Madrid protesting because he's ruining... do you think it's a laughing matter? Well, it's not a laughing matter, Mr. Rivas. It's true that you tell it in your political debate as if it were a movie of cowboys, good and bad, and so mocks the worst situation the family economies are living. They are not the great, Mr Rivas, farmers with names and surnames who will with much effort tell their truth in Madrid in front of the Ministry. Respect! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You have given concrete measures: that an immediate rise in prices is needed. He explained, and I thank him very much, because I remind him that the whole sector is very much looking forward to that protocol being met, that I congratulate him, why are they making fun of you feeling negotiating all and that for the first time they come to an agreement of that magnitude? But why do you ridicule them, if you've also been asking for a lot of time. And when they realize it and it happens, do you think it's wrong?; I mean, I'm talking because you're talking, because you're not talking. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Hey, don't yell at me! [[Applause]] Don't yell at me! [[Murmurs.]] That you're very nervous and I've already told you that this is bad for your health. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u35	Mr. Rivas! Please, shut up, just a moment. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas, she stuck there very clearly. It's your turn to fit now. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's just, you know, that this goes well. [[Laughter]] You know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u36	I put it together and I listened to it with great respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u37	With great respect, by the way. Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u38	A second block of financial measures to provide liquidity. A third block to prevent deforestation. A fourth block to allow you to expand the area for grain planting. And let me think about it here, because it has to be very valuable for you to come and put your voice in a press round as if you had just discovered America to ask for exactly the same thing that you voted against when we voted for the Agrarian Recovery Act. And it's Mr. Rivas that you have to be decency! [[Applause]] The main decency is coherence, which is shown to be walking. [[Applause]] And one last package of measures to turn the primary sector into a strategic sector of our economy. Undoubtedly, it was probably the most important long-term decision. I can only tell you this first round, Counselor, that you continue to work in that direction, that you continue to explain — which I think is undoubtedly the obligation of the Government — but in addition to this case it is a real need for people to know the hard work they are doing with responsibility. And trying not to fall into the provocations of the opposition: more demagogue, less substantiated and — the worst of all — which is, of course — from my point of view and after listening to it, very little interest that these measures are going well and correct. And that's very serious because those measures aren't for the People's Party or for the German Government, they're for the owners and the owners of our community who need them so much. Nothing else on this first shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Counselor of the Middle Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the spokesperson of the People's Party has already said so: 12-0-0. Twelve concrete measures set out here, outlined by the Councillor of the Rural Environment, of course, and which have to do with the central government, with the European Union but also with the competence of the Galician Union. Socialist Party proposals, zero. Block proposals, zero. Well, today it's zero, but they're already talking about the 200,000 hectares that are going to grow grain; and, don't lose it, buy public thought. That's the solution of the Block for the Galician gain. By the way, Mr. Rivas, I remind you that when they passed the Land Bank Act, in memory they took 100,000 acres to the land mobilization year. You know how many have come, right? They've got three zeros left, they haven't even reached a thousand, but well, you've got to be listening to the same thing all the time. [[Applause]] We continue to work, which is what we are talking about, for the sake of our farmers and livestock. [[Applause]] I asked Mr. Seco where the Galician Union was. And I say, man, I can go to a demonstration, can't I?I know I'm not from the Bloc or the Socialist Party, but we can go to the demonstration, especially when there are almost 400,000 rural inhabitants in that demonstration. By the way, Mrs. Candia, if I were to say the voice of the Block that vote on the PP, they're not good protesters; that's what I heard earlier, that you said before, so, well... you'll have to measure. We, on the other hand, say that yesterday — that there were people standing here — we fully respect their demands, it would only be missing!, we are not paying attention to those who vote. I was in Madrid, of course, at that time supporting — as I say — the greedy; by the way, with parties and representatives of all political ideologies. Perhaps a few more representatives of the Greek political field have been missed. But I was also -- as was the rest of the Councillors of Galicia -- with the moneywinners, with the food industries, the slaughterhouses -- trying to avoid the collapse of the Greek primary sector, while the Minister of Transport delayed the transporters' meetings by putting these issues at risk. I brought here, simply, the demonstrations that the first Greek milk buyer — Lactalis, in this case — had made it clear that he had clearly appreciated the provision 24 hours a day that he had the Board to prevent the collapse that could have been that he did not collect the milk to 1,300 gainors. And I was also, of course — and if it seems bad to you, I'm sorry — fighting in Madrid for the greatest possible amount of money to come to the Greek primary sector. Because, look at one thing -- and I ask -- doesn't Madrid also represent Galicia? If there are measures to be taken in Europe, as is the activation of the emergency reserve, we will have to look from Galicia to bring as much money as possible here, I say. Or, Mr. Rivas, is the money coming from Madrid bad? What do we tell them? So we did -- and Mrs Candia said it and it seems to me that we should all understand that this is a fruity strategy of planning and that it has to do with negotiation for our sectors -- here it has already been heard in Galicia that milk cannot be bought under the 40 cents, because we made a lot of noise with the Production Cost Report, in which we believe that under these 40 cents if they were losing money. I ask myself: Is that bad for the gainful in the negotiation that they have to close the contracts? I'm sure not. Is it bad in Galicia negotiations, which is 40% of all Spanish milk, in negotiations before the Ministry? Or how do you think these EUR 124 million come for the dairy sector? And besides, I have to say - and I thank, of course, the posture, the sensitivity that the Ministry had - I have to say that you are thinking about the gains of the cantabria cornice, basically Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria; but, obviously and fundamentally, Galicia, because we have a lot of weight. Practically half, ladies and gentlemen, almost half of the 124 million euros come to Galicia. Man, something would have to do with the Middle Rural Council in the negotiation too, I say. They don't have to give us a lot of credit, but I'm telling you something we had to do with it. We believe that those who were worse were not the big gloveries, but the small and medium-sized land-based gangries of a familiar nature, and that in this case they are also clearly those of the cantabrian cornice. And we're always looking for that alliance with the Cantabrian cornice because I think we're very interested. So, I just want to move that, from the beginning, we went out before the others, because we warned what was coming upon us, and on February 18 we actually left. I don't think, Mr. Rivas, that it's wrong to meet with agricultural organizations, those who want to come, with associations, those who want to come, and of course, with the Greek cooperatives. Then in February we warned him to come over. We warned of a situation of selling the widespread loss and we looked for in the negotiation with Madrid that they had come the greatest amount of money for Galicia. We will continue to look for it because, of course, what matters to us is that they are legal course money and, of course, they help our farmers and livestock. So I think that — I repeat — as far as direct aid is concerned, the EUR 124 million, of which almost 60 will come to Galicia, are very well received. And in this negotiation that will open this week we the only one we ask the minister, after thanking those 124 million, what we ask him for was agility in granting aid in the distribution of 194 million. And there I also clearly tell you, and here I inform the House, that all autonomous communities, without exception, have supported — other sectors too — the beef cow. So we ask the Ministry that these 194 million in an important part go to beef and here special consideration is given to land-based, family-based earnings, and that they also have quality indicators. We're talking about Ternera Gallega Supreme, which is the one who's going through greater difficulties right now and needs very strong support from direct aid. And if the money coming from Madrid wasn't enough to give that support, then it'll be Junta de Galicia, of course, covering whatever is needed. But you understand that at the moment of negotiation it is appropriate for us to try to get as much money as possible for Galicia, for our beef beef sector, as we did with the milk cow. Mr. Seco, the February data came out, we're already in 36.6. I think we have to take into account, beyond the figures, that we are talking about an increase of almost 13% of the price of milk last year. There's a chain sensitivity. This is very clear, there's a sensitivity that you have to raise the price. There's a sensitivity that you can't be permanently selling under production costs. And that sensitivity was the one that made the meat sector protocol signed. It was a sensitivity in which they had a lot to see also agricultural organizations and the work of the associations of their own owners, which made distribution and industry the ones that had also transferred to us the need to sign that protocol of fulfillment of sales to losses. And I, as coordinator of that protocol, as coordinator of the Rural Council, clearly warn you that we are going to be vigilant for your compliance. So, I think it's a good news, and we should all be glad here that we're in front of people who, with that responsibility, are betting precisely to comply with the loss ban by preventing value from being destroyed in jail. Because they finally know perfectly well that if there's no meat or no milk, there's no sector and for them, of course, there's no business capacity. And, therefore, I would tell you, Mr. Rivas, and I understand it costs you, but sometimes you think that Vegalsa, Girl, Froiz, to whom I thank clearly the effort you're making on the increase in the prices of primary operators, more than the devil are the customer. It's good to try to convince them that prices go up, but if they stop buying we stop having customers and are always demonizing the distribution industry... I tell them frankly, we have to work to buy and pay more for the products, but don't pretend they stop buying because then they're messing with us all. By the way, Mr. Rivas, the protocol was also in German. If you want the copy in German, you can use it as well, but as there were distribution chains that were either Spanish or national, we've made it bilingual. I don't know if... you're sure you haven't listened to the speech of the president of Galicia, but you've already said that in Galicia we had cordial bilingualism. So I think clearly we can do it in Spanish and also in Greek. But since Mr. Rivas has read the protocol, we're going to do some killing on that protocol. Because it seems that the unions related to the Block did not want to sign because the exceptional agreement is temporary. And I say, Mr Rivas, have you read the reports of the National Committee on Markets and Competition, do you not know that the key to all these protocols is that they accept us in competition rules? You don't know that, if we don't put... if we're not very strict in what we're writing, are we going to have a negative report? By the way, that protocol has been sent to the Galician Competition Commission and we are awaiting that report. We thought it would be favorable, then submitted to the National Competition Market Commission. But I would ask you, in this sense, to believe that this is a technical matter. Just like Mr. Seco, when he spoke to us here and assumed the observatory of Castela-La Mancha. Say with agents in the sector. Mr Seco, I say the same thing to Mr Rivas, that the National Competition Market Commission requires that reports come from public bodies without any involvement of the sector's agents at all. So I'm telling you that either you change the rules in Castile-A Mancha or your reports will not serve the fundamental objective of proof of production costs. And this subject is very much worked by the Galician Council and the Basque Country as well. At this point, we are running the German Food Chain Observatory, and we are working with the Basque Country to give you all those conditions that allow your reports to be those that believe the costs of production. It was said that this is a really important issue and where we feared that the Food Chain Law would be left on wet paper. Because it is extremely difficult — and they will all understand — to prove the production costs contract to contract. And that we also mess with the gain if we have to go into contract. So what do we defend from Galicia? We clearly defend that reports coming out of public observatories, in this case the Greek, serve to believe the costs of production. And there we need the support of the Ministry, because the Ministry says that production costs are tested by any evidence valid in law. We told him to be those reports. Why don't you pick them up? We have this mistrust that they don't collect. Anyway, I also transfer to you that at the last meeting with the Secretary of State and the Minister they told us to present our proposals on this. Mr. Rivas was saying that he would weigh in our political capital without voting in favour of the amendments to the Block, because they're only good those of the Block. But you didn't say here in the House that there were also amendments tabled by the People's Party, and that exactly how they were not approved, and that is why we didn't vote in favour of the last process. That if we abstained in the processing in which he put the ban on sales to losses, but abstained because we said that we are looking forward to seeing if they really guarantee compliance with this ban on sale to losses. And indeed, we proposed amendments in the Senate to Articles 9.1c and Article 12b. And in both cases what we ask you to do, we said that in the case of agricultural holdings the objective factors which are impartially fixed independently of the parties and which refer to public consultation data, i.e. proof of production costs, we say: These will be — it is in Spanish because we present it in the Senate — such as the data on the actual costs of the holdings published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Or cost studies which, where appropriate, publish the councils of the autonomous governments with powers in the field of agriculture. We miss you didn't support this amendment either. And in the case of the 12th we also said the same thing: that they were a means of testing the costs of production both the studies of the Greek Observatory and, in their case, for example, also the Milk Account, which, as you know, is the mechanism that we freely made available to all the dairy farmers. So I've already said that I'm perhaps a little political here, but I'm doing the work that I think I have to do in defense of our farmers and livestock. From the very first moment, as I told you, Mr. Rivas, planning. If you don't think it's right for us to make strategies that, in addition, are being carried out and if you're doing your own actions, well, there you are. I suppose they'll come later with the happy Arcadia of Mr. Suárez Canal and that everything was resolved in five minutes without any need for any planning. We bet on that plan. And then we have a strategy. The strategy was, first, to achieve the fundamental objective that those measures which depended on the European Union or that depended on the central government were actually implemented. I quote, for example, the proposal that you could plant in a barbershop, if you could plant surfaces of ecological interest, which I'm also telling you that it's not a question that affects Galicia too much, but in Spain's whole it's going to assume 600,000 hectares of more planting. We clearly needed to allow the European Union to do this, we asked the Minister, the Minister transferred it to the European Union, and that is what happened. Another of the objectives that we were asking for were direct aids, in which we committed the necessary effort by the Councillory of the Rural Environment, by the Council of Galicia, and we were also looking forward to seeing what could come from the European Union through the emergency reserve, which are these 65 million euros, and there was also an additional effort, which we recognize here, of the Ministry as far as the dairy sector is concerned. But I also have to tell you that there was an important help from this one who speaks to you, who is the Middle Rural Counsellor, who represents 40% of the milk cow in all of Spain. We'll keep working, of course, we'll keep planning, we'll keep thinking ahead of our primary sector. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u41	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u42	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Candia, I don't even want to get into the internal affairs of the People's Party. It is more, I congratulate all of you, the winners at your congress, and with responsibility I wish them the best and that this brings with you something good for the People's Party. But I was talking about the Government, the Government. Mr. Feijóo, instead of being here today, is on the Executive Committee of the People's Party. Wednesday I don't think she's where she is, Thursday she's with the king and she should be here. At a time of crisis, I should be here at our country, which is what you should care about, is what you promised the Greeks when you said that about Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. [[Applause]] He told them his commitment was to Galicia, and it turns out he wasn't to Galicia. For the fourth time, isn't it, he goes to Madrid instead of... leaving the Greeks and he goes to Madrid by failing to comply with what he said? And you... who accuse them of dealing with ultras. I disagree. In Galicia the People's Party does not deal with ultras, they have them inside. They've got them inside, and so what happens. He said we didn't set out any measures here. I didn't hear the councillor, within these supposed twelve measures that he said he posed, not a single one from the Greek Government. He's talking about what Europe is going to do, what the State Government is going to do, but it's not a single measure of the Greek Government to act against the crisis, not a single one. By the way, Mrs. Candia, you're zero too. The People's Party and its spokesperson criticize the most that we do not present any measure here, and you zero, not one single. It turns out you're going out to defend yourself for your presence at the Madrid demonstration. Look, I understand that the members of the People's Party were in the Madrid demonstration, more so, they have every right in the world to be in any kind of demonstration, like any other party. Obviously, we're not going to take that chance out of him. But you're the councillor in the middle of the countryside, who was protesting, against himself, Counselor? Because, of course, the Government of the State will have its powers, but you too, and the greedy people also ask you for solutions. What was he manifesting against himself? Because that's the fallacy of the People's Party. Just like saying that it turns out that now you're the ones that guarantee the milk output from the farms and the input. You, who was going with a yellow vest and allowed him to go out and go in. Was that you? Do you have security skills in the state? Please, Counselor, it's really a joke to always listen to the same thing, as if you fit into the issues that others do and never assume absolutely the competences that you have. But, look, four brushes if you want to take measures as well as more than is being done by Europe and the Government of the State. Take note already to solve problems with wild fauna, which is ruining our farms. Trying to deal with the Government measures on the subject of the wolf and, above all, on the subject of the barbarian, Counsellor, who keep looking to the other side: fifteen million annual losses in the sector because of the subject of the barbarian, and you don't even even have issues in place that solve not only the plague that must suffer the yellow gain but also the necessary help that the sector needs. You can also try to modify and add the plans for improvement that the yellow gloves receive. You know they've been very upset about the price increases. Therefore, the Galician Union could implement measures to help those plans of improvement. Within this land recovery law, where you know that we actively participate and do not vote against, I would like to know how much improved the territorial base of our farms, how many hectares have already recovered from the Galician Union. Because you... the magic plan of the effect of the law we've known, but you've had the Land Bank at your disposal for 13 years and you haven't done anything at all. And I don't know if this law will have its effects, because what you write isn't enough, then you have to be determined and meet it, and put up paper, put budgets, so that really doesn't stay on wet paper. I'd like you to get back the help of self-consumption, too, which you, when you saw that the state implemented millions and millions of euros for self-consumption and energy efficiency operating aid, you know, something I'd like you to put in place again. I'd like them to get out of the digital range already, the one we agreed on in the deep-cover measures and you said they were going to implement or brought to this commission, but they're still waiting, and you know it's necessary to give you transparency and have another business formula within the meat sector. Look, you should take action already in all sectors, complement... that you have said absolutely nothing of a single euro in direct support of the Galician Union, of own funds, of the sectors, and you should establish how you will fulfill those coming to Europe and the 200% that approach that bad government of the state government. You should also say how much you're going to budget with your own funds, and in which you're going to use them, in which sectors, it's not going to be that some sector that's affected is out of this distribution, and many need this help. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u43	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Rivas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the problem is a model problem and it's a structural problem. As a model because the markets have already warned him; the Competition Commission has already warned that what they signed the other day... that there was, there was... that good will, everything is due to the goodwill of the parties... with this model we cannot work, because they do put conditions. When 30 % of a dairy contract is limited at prices above and below, regarding the price of butter or the price of milk powder, they are setting conditions. The producer cannot set any conditions. Look, of course it's a structural problem, it's a territorial base problem, territorial base, that's the point of the question, headless intensive model. Ours is a headless intensive model. They have an intensive but head model in Ireland, because they have a territorial base. Look, I invite you to travel, for example, from Curtis to Boimorto and you'll see a mosaic, this mosaic, this is: alpha strips — large concentration lines —, eucalyptus, corn and eucalyptus, meadow and eucalyptus. This is the result of absenteeism, it is the result of the confrontation of two forces, that of absenteeism and that of those who have to live on earth. And this example we can see throughout Galicia, and that's where we have to act, and that's where we have to act on the Law of Recovery of Land. That's where the Land Bank was acting. I can tell you there was -- remember what Uxfor is? -- 35 Uxfor, how many Sofor have you been in 12 years? I think they were for the ten, ten, and they were in trouble. How many model villages are working? Osmo's is working or went to bankruptcy? Of course, you have to take care of this. Look, Counselor, how many times did you laugh when you demanded the Milk Bureau, the approved contracts, how many times? That's impossible...! Now it's possible, why? Because they came out of sleep, from an almost eternal sleep. They're squirting still and I hope they're squirting a little bit more, because these are little people, they're certainly little people, but watch out, eh! Don't be a fool again, because you have a lot of that habit. They're specialists in this deception. Because you haven't told us here about the pig, poultry and poultry sector, which has been against the wall. You know that if they had no thought, pigs' farms could eat... go! The pigs would eat each other, you know this is true, and you guys did it? The cooperatives negotiated. They had to threaten with three convoys flowing to take out the big one from that boat with thirty-thousand-thousand tons coming from Romania. Of course, but you're obvious, obviously because the flag sector is the cow, of course, but there's the other one too, we like it or not, whether it's intensive or not, but they're there. They are there and they are demanding measures, but, of course, who handles this sector? I don't tell you about the bastard and the sheep, because it's no longer your territory, because they've given Oviganic, who for that they gave you three million, you said here. He said in the press that the sector would be restructured. All right. Do we talk about the opinion of Novafrigsa, for example, on the table of meat?, what do you think of the extensive meat gain?, what do we need to go to the onions?, what do we need an approved product, an approved product, what do we need qualities? We're talking about what we're talking about, which we can't talk about in public, no, because it's raising hares, the Mini's kind of crazy and getting up, but I'm talking about reality, you know, I look at people's faces. And people tell me there's no future, there's no future, you know why? Because winning is a profession without a future, no prestige, why is there no prestige? Because it's not paid. That's the mother of the year... caramba, but you can't wait once they've been sleeping for twelve years! And when Mini talks to them about those years when the boys were playing in the school arenas to ensilate, how romantic!, look how romantic!, the things of my grandmother. [[Applause]] No, it's not, it's not, it's reality, because when milk, meat, carrots, cinders are business, and that business has to be business so that it goes up and distribution doesn't allow it to go up, and that's where to act. But they're his friends, of course! That's the measure of measures, the prestige must be returned to the countryside, and the prestige to the countryside is not returned to it in good words, it is returned to it with facts. And the rural is waiting for those facts. Of course, but when rural, the livestock sector sees: latest subsidies: InLeit, 2.4 million. Of course, Clessa, 2.5 million, are the last. But Coren took three million euros in 2021. It's not to intervene in the market, is it? No, not there, because, well... it's subsidies. What are we playing at, Counselor? Let's really play this country rule, let's really play raising the pallet to the country, you know what it was like to raise the pallet, right? Let's lift the pallet to the country and do what we have to do to it. What we have to do is give him a future. Change People's Eyes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u46	...to give this country hope once. I'm not going to analyze the meat and milk protocols for the most part. I have this version, this version is signed, and this version is the one I handle of the milk, and I handle the official protocol of the meat, and I have it underlined, you know why? Because it causes me discomfort — I would say something else — what it contains here, the insults it contains for the producers, the insults veiled. A contempt that the sector and sectors of this country do not deserve, indeed, contempt, counsellor. Go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u48	Thank you, President. Mr. Rivas, I've never had the romantic touch in political debates, I say that it's bucolic and romantic when I sing, and that they were songs that liked my grandmother. In the political debate, I tell him he's very out of his mind, always talking about the cows by the rope, and when he couldn't get in time when he found ten or fifteen, he would count them every time because he ran into them in the corridor. That's when I tell you he's out of line. Because no one can doubt -- and I'm telling you in a week, if you can tell me, until historical -- that in my village, Ramís, they were starting to install the fiber optics, in a village of four houses inhabited. That's the rural one we have today, with more infrastructure, more services, better communications and a much more trained livestock sector. [[Applause]] Because, Mr. Rivas, do you think you can return the illusion and life to the countryside by listening to you constantly and repeatedly treating those who live in the rural of half an illiterate, who don't know what they tell us or what they do to us, because we have nowhere to inform us? Do you think listening to him gives more dignity to the rural sector? No, honestly not. [[Applause]] Look, you've lost, like Mr. Seco, a good opportunity in the second turn of interventions to make positive contributions. A Monday when it comes back to light; a Monday when we get to 250 euros megawattium; a Monday where it reminds us, when I was traveling to Santiago this morning, that we are the country of Europe with more unemployment; a Monday where the Government of Spain acts with total improvisation, and connection to the light, it seems today that the heat station works, do you remember that we had to unload and make a terrible plan? Well, now, how we pull out and there's no demand, and there's nowhere to get out, so there's the banging. A government, Mr. Rivas and Mr. Seco, and he told me both, because in this case they will agree with me, which gives me so much that it gives me the same, because the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block were never together again and never synchronized to go, uniquely and exclusively, against the People's Party, even though that means going against the Greeks and also against the Spaniards. Look, I'm gonna take three pictures of you, because if the People's Party says so, you don't believe it. This is not a cynicism Mr Rivas, it is the reality: governments with terrorists and you don't talk to transporters. [[Mrs. Candia shows photos to the House.]] This circulated through the streets of my province, in those desperate faces you see, but you must see what you're interested in. Minister, it's ruining us. And the last and perhaps the most clarifier: Farmers and transporters, against communists. All this is, and without any doubt it was the screams of the Greeks that circulated through the streets of the capital of my province a few days ago. And they did it feeling insulted and, moreover, knowing that they were trying to confront... by the way, that it was not possible, because the good Greeks, the working people, the honest people who live every day getting up to get forward to their economic activity demands at this moment exceptional decisions, because we are at an exceptional moment and demands exceptional decisions, and demands a government with which one can talk, a government with which one can reach consensus and, of course, measures such as those we applauded that were adopted in the last Council of the day 29. But, of course, much remains to be done, and always the counselor starts his speeches, and ends — and I thank him — despite all the things he hears here, holding his hand. Because — once again — at this economic moment the unity of action in Galicia is more necessary than ever, and on repeated occasions the Council has been able to demonstrate important alliances throughout northern Spain with other autonomous communities, with other political parties. And I wonder why not with the groups represented in this Parliament? Will they ever stop using confrontation until the most important economic crisis? Probably the Nationalist Block Galego still lives without overcoming that, in fact, had been shifted from the Government. And every time we talk, we always remember the performances of Suarez Canal, and if we do something right, they say they already have it, but they can't support it because they already have it, and if we don't do it, they ask. And when we bring something similar or improved, they don't like it either, and they say that's not what they want to do. Finally, Mr Counsellor — as I said in the previous speech — is because you are speaking because you are not. But once again, I know you're up to the circumstances, that the moment is extremely difficult. That we have to focus the debate, that food chain law needs to be respected. Greeders can't sell under the cost price, they have to have a profit margin. And we have to get these control mechanisms to be real and effective among all. I keep asking myself, Counselor, why the opposition forces did not support this amendment to Article 12 ter that this council has pushed. That I myself have tried, in addition, to carry a unanimous support and, as always, with silence in response. Follow that direction and Galicia will thank you. And probably after all this that you announced we'll start seeing one before and one after in a primary sector asking for fair prices, asking not to be ruined, asking not to sell for losses. And that the rest of the aids, undoubtedly, are very important right now, but they're patches, and what they demand are silent measures like the ones you announced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u50	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the show. Counselor of the Middle Rural.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me also thank you for the work you do here, always impeccable, for cleaning up all this. The truth is that it is a very good compliance with the health measures in this regard. But here today, on this second shift, I'm thanking and respecting the workers who did the cleaning, and that's what the president said. But, well, you're his. [[Applause]] You're his! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We listen here to contempt for the gainees in the protocol that tries to ensure that if they are paid the prices -- let's use the terminology of the Block, see if you like it more -- "the fair prices." I say cost of production more profit margin, because that's what the National Competition Market Commission asks me to do. And as I know it's not an hour for me to read the whole protocol, because maybe someone gets angry with me, I'm going to read the two parts of the protocol that talk about the gainful exploitation; and see if you warn some contempt, like Mr. Rivas. The recitals say that "governing farms, as well as meat industries and distribution, constitute an essential part of Galicia's economic fabric." Take note now: "Given the high number of livestock holdings and their strong presence in the Welsh countryside, the extensive character of the Galician glovery and the quality of their production recognized in the protected geographical indication of Ternera Galicia." Less contempt, Mr. Rivas says. Look, look, see if there's any contempt, man, in everything I read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u53	Please don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u54	You're gonna want me to read the whole protocol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u55	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u56	And in point 3, which is what specifically speaks of the organizations and associations of livestock with presence in Galician territory, signatories to this protocol, the commitment they make is made. "They add to the commitment that their partners are effectively working to improve the efficiency of their operations..." — of course, that of efficiency to the Block makes it a little nervous, or even it is a little understatement—...as well as in the quality of their products in order to guarantee the economic future of the sector." Ladies and gentlemen, at least in a protocol that you're looking for to comply with the loss ban? Less respect when we're asking and when you're assuming the industry, the distribution, about the prices you have to pay your livestock? We'll see what work is going on with this protocol, but I'm just saying one thing: I was told in Madrid that we couldn't sign these protocols and here it is, in Galicia. And, Mr. Seco, this cannot be signed in Galicia for milk because milk, much of it, is marketed outside Galicia. That's how we moved it to the minister. We will be delighted to support the Minister and the Secretary of State when they call all the industry and all the distribution they have to do with Spanish milk. And we're going there, of course, to sign, if we have to sign, all agricultural advisors and each of the different autonomous communities. But it cannot be made in Galicia a protocol for milk throughout Spain, it is an obvious matter. However, if we can make a protocol in Galicia for the protected geographical indication of Ternera Gallega, specifically, to defend the Ternera Gallega Supreme, which is our bet, Mr Rivas, because we have 8,000 farms, and barley in Galicia we only have 400. So don't look there for what we're talking about, about Novafrigsa and all this growing up, when our very clear bet is Ternera Gallega, I would earn beef on a territorial basis, of a family character, which fights against depopulation, which fights against the abandonment of the rural; and that, of course, is the best custodian of our territory. That's what we support from here, from the Middle Rural Council. Look, Mr. Seco also told me he heard here and he didn't hear any action. Well, I, because I'm heavy, I'm going to repeat it again, and I'm going to tell you also those in which we help the central government that either had taken those measures or had asked Europe for them. - First of all, the national agreement of the dairy sector to comply with the prohibition on the sale to losses. I've already told you that this has to be done at the national level. - The creation of the Galese Observatory, not like that of Castile-A Mancha. By the way, I have a lot of respect for the advisor, but I'll also transfer him that he has to be without the agents of the sector, he has to be strictly public, in order to comply with the rules of the Competition Commission. - The Milky Account, of course, is being an example for other autonomous communities, such as Cantabria or Catalonia, which are implementing it in their farms. - The Gallega Agency. It is true that it is an obligation that comes from the law, but on which we ask, in addition, technical means and economic means; and, in any case, we are developing it in the decree of structure of the Rural Council. - Two very specific measures of Galicia, like the advance of the CAP... well, you won't think it's right to anticipate the CAP, but if there's an immediate need for liquidity of 200 million euros at zero costs, I'd tell you if you have any friend or family member will ask you whether it's a good measure or not. In fact, the financial institutions have told us this year that many advances are being made to the CAP; by the way, we will also pay those advances that are already made, even if they are signed after the agreement. - The liquidity line of 25 million euros... here we ask the central government to expand Saeca's liquidity line, if you can ask it, too, because it would be very good. - The Milky Way Observatory, if you want to call the Milky Way Table because you give us the same name, the important thing is that they're livestock, distribution and industry. - The high-level group of tax and labour measures. Let's leave patches and make a law as important as the primary sector. The negotiating pressure that this council had, which had the Galician board, to achieve direct aid, and I clearly thank the Ministry for the sensitivity he had with the milk cow; and I ask him to have the same sensitivity with the beef cow, especially with the owners of Ternera Gallega Supreme. That's why we're going to ask for specific help for meat beef with quality indication. But we also asked him -- and it's not a question of Galicia, but he has to do it, and he took good note at the March 31 meeting, and he told us that he was going to speak directly to the Ministry of Finance -- the one-year moratorium on long-term loans from our creditors. And we also asked him to go to Europe with both direct aids, emergency reserve activation, as well as grain import, which you know was a very critical moment. I know that Mr Rivas would say that there are 200,000 or 400,000 hectares, but here it was important to facilitate imports of countries — as I say — like Argentina and the United States, that this has been resolved between the Central Government and the European Union as well. And, of course, the diversification of crops without effectively prejudging the CAP perceivers. And I can't resist moving you, Mr. Rivas, which will bring you a dozen chourices from the village of Osmo, don't worry, you'll see how it's working. [[Applause]] But the question that I ask... Cien PorCel, it's called; if you see it on Facebook... point out, it's Cien PorCel — I'm advertising Martín, which is what's taking the pigs; and besides I've been there last week with him. But the question I ask you is why do you want the model villages to go wrong? Mr. Rivas! Why do you want them to go wrong? Why don't you ask for the others too? For the Brollon Poorness. Or don't you ask about the Incio? Or don't you ask about Trelle? Lots of villages that are developing, let's go in eleven. But I also tell you, why don't you ask why the polygons you're working on are growing up? Well, there's Mrs. González Albert talking to the owners to scare them about Galician land recovery law. But, look, you have to make a tour in Sardinia-Cotobade, in Coristanco, in Mazaricos, in Bóveda, in Leiro, in Curtis, in Monterrey, in Cualedro, in Rios, in Larouco, in Montederramo, or in Paderanda. That we're working on agricultural polygons and, you know, they're not for multinationals, they're for our landowners. [[Applause]] At Montederramo there are no multinationals, ladies and gentlemen, you'll be asked who's chosen and where those polygons are placed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They'll be asked how it's done! [[Applause]] Vaian! [[Applause]] Ask them and they'll see! By the way, Father, I forgot. We have the best of claims, of course, knowing that maybe some of them are not good enough, but we're going to give them all the support. And there's the Council's commitment that whatever happens, model villages and polygons will always have people working. And if we have the misfortune that someone is going to be wrong, because it is not always in business, well, we will try — as the law itself indicates — to have other concessionaries in different fields. Once again the enemy is the one who buys the milk! InLeit — as Mr Rivas speaks — EUR 2.4 million. But do you know how many liters of milk you collect this year InLeit? Do you know that? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But you know that? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] 300 million liters of milk with an absolutely extraordinary price! [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And ask InLeit's livestock what's paying InLeit for the liter of milk. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, it's a business that, of course, also within the policy that the Rural Council has, can get grants; by the way, in competitive competition schemes, like all the others. And, I say, too, it's good that there's a transformation in Galicia because if there's no more contradiction. If it doesn't turn here, bad, and if it turns here, we criticize the companies that come here. As Mrs Candia said, we have fallen into such contradictions that it sometimes costs me to argue. I — indeed, I tell you very clearly — would like to come here and talk about the primary sector, I would like to hear measures, I would like to be able to get out here today by saying that, in addition to the measures we have proposed to the Central Government and the European Union, and that we have as our own, there are measures - and I would be very happy - of the Socialist Party or of the Block that we can add. But I... well, I'm just not able to defend public buying of thought, that's not able to defend it; and I don't think there's a lot of livestock defending that posture. I'm done. And I don't want to finish, of course, without remembering that the Board has always been next to the sector demanding immediate measures, and now we continue to demand effective measures in the long term as well. And, without a doubt, as you have to increase the possibility that people are willing to work in rural areas is the effective application of the loss ban. People have to charge production costs more of their profit margin; or, in their terminology, at fair prices. Are they? Well, if we're in full agreement, let's follow that line, giving seriousness to the ban. It is true that there was a negotiating pressure on the part of the Greek Government that I think was constant, intense and, of course, productive, especially in the direct aid of the cow and milk. But we continue to work and we hope that in the 193 million euros there will be that recognition of the beef cow and, specifically — I repeat, to make it clear — of the surplus beef cow's gain. Also, Mr. Rivas, bear in mind that I've already said that the whole of the German and probably Spanish livestock sector is in a state of widespread loss sale. We asked, as we had to do, at the Ministry's door to ask him for agility in taking the measures. Not only to adopt measures but also to do so in the field of competences, of course; but also to engage in the dialogue before the European Union. We exert all the negotiating pressure — at least as I think it should — on behalf of our farmers and farmers. We have reached these 124 million for the dairy sector, and we hope — I repeat — that there will be that fair distribution as far as beef is concerned. So I think, after this appearance, that it is clear that the Board is putting everything on its side and making the decisions that are within the scope of the autonomous competences to be all possible resolutions within our sphere of action; exercising, that is, always, the pressure needed to negotiate and bring forward the necessary measures. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, do your homework. Galicia is on the side of the primary sector. Galicia is rural. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u57	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Thank you, Counselor. I appreciate that reference to the workers who wipe out Parliament's rostrum. I think they deserve it. And we also hope that this test isn't just... you can open the fan for everyone, it wouldn't be wrong. I'll tell you. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, if you limit it only to Mr. Rivas, we can... be for everyone. We greet the students from the training cycles of the Maria Sarmiento de Viveiro Centre, Lugo, who accompany us today in the gallery, and welcome the teachers who are there with them today. Agenda Change And now that we're going to change the agenda that has already been communicated, we're going to debate an interpellation now. Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the situation of the fisheries sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u58	Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that, after the debate we just attended, in case we had any doubts, we already know what the speech is. In any case, we are lukewarm and not easily discouraged. Now let's try it with the sea. Ladies and gentlemen, all the figures we can give here today, in fact, are too much. Because there is no one at this time -- or, better said, almost no one -- who hasn't been suffering them for a long time. And in view of the official speech that the figures, those figures and that brutal upheaval are the fault of the invasion of Ukraine, also everyone knows at this point that this is the great deception. One lie that the only thing he's trying to do is hide the incapacity, ineffectiveness and also the incompetence of governments, state and autonomics, who've been looking elsewhere for more than a year. Yes, more than a year. The case of the Welsh fishing sector is paradigmatic. I paid the fuel at the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020 at less than 30 cents per litre. In 2021 it began the escalation and in a year, from January 2021 to January 2022, it was already paid by 72% more; and there was no war, at least in Ukraine. I mean, it's been a whole year without the United States or the Spanish state reacting. In November 2021 the fishing sector was already giving the alarm voice. And do you know where the Council of the Sea was at that time, in November 2021? He was coming in this Parliament to explain to us the tallest budgets in history for the year 2022, proud again of beating budget records and selling a down payment of the IRPF which was another deception: one euro a month for the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. It seems a long time, but they've been there just over three months since, in the final debate of the budgets, on December 21, the BNG already warned them — and I read textually — that the budget route sheet was already obsolete at that time, at the time of entry into the House Registry. Because the set worsened with the escalation of the price of light and the supply and material crisis. The response — the BNG continued at that time — from the Greek budgets to this situation is non-existent and comes to its process that has already been completely out of date, with no capacity for anticipation or reaction. Therefore, the BNG was already placing at that time black on white and the German Government was warned, not only by the BNG, but, as I said, by the fishing sector itself, that it had already given its alarming voice. But you, the Greek Government, gave them the same, they got involved in their propaganda and today, three months after the adoption of budgets that did not foresee anything, that did not anticipate what was coming forward, not what was already there at that time, we are where we are and how we are. Indeed, one month after the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, which clearly had an impact and which worsened a scenario that was already unsustainable at the end of the year, at the end of 2021, with inflation at that time of 6.7% — today we will surely be exceeding 10% — and with a fishing gas oil above 0.60%, today and today, after the first of March they passed all barriers with a fishing fuel of 380% more expensive than at the beginning of the pandemic, at 1.20 we cent the liter, and an increase of double and more double in many cases in the oil derived fishery materials: noses, nets, boxes,... up to meat, which does not have much to do with oil, at least directly, doubled its price. Well, with all this, the Greek Government still today has not put in place any of the measures he anticipated — yes, in advance — after the June Council on 18 March. It's funny, but while Feijóo was on a tour, the sea councillor urged Madrid to take action now. The argument was that decisions could not continue to be dilated because the situation was extreme. And not only did they make decisions here, but they said they were taking them and announcing measures that continue today without going into operation. It's a scandal, at our trial, and it's a real irresponsibility that had to wait until March 29th so that the Council of Ministers of Spain had taken some measures that could hardly be taken until after the European Council of March 24th and 25th. Some measures that could have been taken long before without waiting for the decisions of the European Union and, above all, after there were already countries in our surroundings that took them: France, Italy, Portugal... If that's scandalous we still find it far more scandalous than the Board has on the table more requests for ship layoffs than ever and continue today by throwing balloons out. Counsellor, you've finished your congress, you've already proclaimed, you've enthroned, you've already sung Rianxeira, now, as your president said, will you get to work? Are you going to work, Counselor? Are they going to make decisions and go into practice or are they going to continue lacing and selling smoke? [[Applause]] It took time for you in particular, but for the German Government as a whole, it lacked time to criticize and demean the measures taken by the Spanish Government. And it's true, the 68 million euros you're going to spend on the sector aren't enough, and you're also about to see your agility, especially as far as direct aid is concerned, and you're about to see your effectiveness. Because the fuel continues to rise and before the rise it already assumed about 35% of operating costs and now represents almost double. The reduction of 20 cents in gas oil or accommodating - not the exemption - from social security quotas, are a patch for a sector that is low and cannot impact the rise of its costs on the product. The activation of Article 26 of the Fempa is a measure which has been taken because, among other things, it is precisely to put itself into operation in extraordinary situations. Now, what we're very afraid of, is in the case of the Fempa, that it's not all the immediate thing it should be. You, the People's Party, Mr Feijóo in particular, accused the Central Government of fending for the taxes of hydrocarbons. And you've hidden that the autonomous communities, the Autonomous Community of Wales, receive 58% of that special tax, more than 555 million euros that will receive this year. And yet they remain without delay a single measure of those which you considered to be so urgent. To begin with, Counsellor, BNG believes that it is the final moment to plant itself in Madrid, and also in Europe, and to demand the absolute paralysis, sine die, of all the regulations that are being put in place, or that they intend to put in place on this subject. In particular, the revision of the Energy Taxation Directive and the Fit for 55 package of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but which the EU wants to put into operation by 2023. We do not hear the Spanish Minister refuse or stand against this measure. And here, Counsellor -- I don't know if you know -- here in the German Parliament, the People's Party voted against a BNG initiative in this regard. In particular, with regard to the Fit for 55 plan, the EU environmental action programme for 2030, which has just been approved by the European Parliament now, just now in full crisis, fifteen days ago, and which aims to eliminate subsidies for fishing fuels, and which both the PP and the PSOE supported, Mrs Quintana. Therefore, Counsellor, continue to demand the reduction of products from the sea to over-reduced HVV of 4%, as required by WHO. We need to put a top on the fuel, demand that you put a top on the fuel, as required by the fishing industry, which does not exceed 40 cents. It requires the implementation of compensatory measures to bridge the moorings of the fleet, produced precisely as a result of the high costs. It is necessary to approve temporary aid, Mrs Quintana, the approval of temporary and immediate aid to ensure the viability of many small enterprises in the sea sector at risk. It must also, of course, require the temporary exemption from quotas to social security and port charges, which are still taking place in the state but which you have not yet clarified. They haven't finished clarifying that either. And we're talking about a real exemption, not a settlement, as they did in the pandemic, which then arrived at everything together and people didn't know how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u61	It's over, Mr. President. Finally, the governments, and the Greek Government in particular, are not taking action, it is not taking action and we are already going very late. A delay that we hope will not become irreversible, if it does not act, precisely as before. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, to assess by the Council of the Sea and the Greek Government the impact of inflation, the increase in operational costs and to implement measures. Finally, absolutely, Mr President. At this last meeting with the Minister of Planas, the Minister asked the autonomous communities to effectively implement the pyramid — I have to say so with this clarity — the amount that the Government has just allocated to the fisheries sector. We ask him to complement it and to take decisive action, indeed, and urgently measures already. Because you, Mrs. Quintana,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u63	...he's a member of a government, he's not in opposition and he's supposed to act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u65	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u66	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u67	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pérez, I would like to begin this answer by stressing that, as you well said, the situation that goes through Greek fishing, such as Spain and Europe, has been a stumbling block for months and has been adding elements progressively. That's why I think the situation caused by the invasion of Ukraine should be solved and this is not the trigger of the crisis, but rather the drop that filled the glass. This situation is certainly complicated and has four areas that coincide in time and supersede the negative effects. On the one hand, the rise of fuels and the cost of light, which affects fleets and processing and marketing industries, respectively, and which affect one of the most important taxes for them. On the other hand, a determining factor in this episode has to do with international logistics, and especially with the commodity being moved in collectors. And a third derivative of the crisis would be focused on increasing the costs of raw materials and elements necessary for production, especially those manufactured with petroleum derivatives but also others such as cardboard. It must be borne in mind that this general increase is particularly affecting the sector, since the extension of its demands for elements necessary for the operation of an important part of the rest of the economy, which, according to the input-output tables to be published, reaches 76 of the 83 branches of the economy of Galicia. Finally, but no less important, the transport strike has tightened the economy of the sector, especially than it discharges and produces fresh fish and seafood, up to a very serious limit. This situation has caused virtually complete paralysis of the main Greek strips, subsequently causing a bottling of the fish's output by concentrating the sales of the fish stored around 500 tons — in a few days. Since then, we have a situation that someone has called the perfect storm and that is jeopardizing, in the short term, the competitiveness and sensitivity of the marine-fishing sector, of the sea-industry chain. From this analysis we can mean that we agree with definitions of this crisis as formulated by the European Commission when it comes to determining that Russia's military aggression against Ukraine is an exceptional event that causes significant market disturbance, but pointing out that it has many more elements in its conformation. However, this impact and the situation generated in the sector's activity is particularly relevant - and thus the context of its second question - if we see the aggregated data of the discharges at length during week 12 of this year, on the third of March, in relation to other years. This data, which is the quantitative part of a daily follow-up that was also done to know how the distances were operating, tells us that the discharges and billing fell at 60% over the same week of 2019, the reference year, because, as you know, 2020 was a particularly anomalous year and we lost something more than 5.5 million euros. This gap caused by the occurrence of negative elements puts a turning point on the path of improvement that the sector brought with respect to the pandemic overrun and which is plasma in data such as that of the elevation of invoicing in lengths by 3% during 2021, reaching the highest average price of the historical series, and which is an increase of 16% of the average value of the year 2020, far above the levels of the CPI. This improvement in the height of the Galician water production, which in 2021 rose by almost 9% to 2020 and which saw even the economic volume evolve even better, growing by 31%. These improvements are not a minor issue and they highlight the resilience that the sector has, waiting for, with the momentum of the measures taken, that it can re-take air and return to the good economic path that it was bringing. Among the facts we hope that they will allow this trend to be recovered is, fundamentally, the price of oil oil and petroleum derivatives, which suppose, in their facet as fuel, one of the main expenditure plots of fishing vessels. It should be noted that this element assumed, according to input-output tables, 14% of the average operating costs, ranging from 7% for the bass fleet to 22% in the case of high drags, a matter that jumps through the air, taking into account the duplication of its cost in less than two months. I say this because -- addressing your third question -- giving you an answer to this situation requires averages in many areas and where all administrations should add up initiatives if we want to go watering this crisis. This situation requires, therefore, that there are several lines, because we must address different plans and areas of impact based on the origin of the circumstances that affect us. I say this because competitiveness and sustainability are threatened by many fronts. And we have dozens of examples: I'm talking about cases such as brownish, I'm talking about cases such as proposals for the elimination of subsidies or subsidies for fuels, I'm talking about issues such as the proposal for and the limitation of the use of background arts... and that's why we have to work on a wide open front on countless subjects. We've been, we're and we'll be working on them, but we must add the effort of everyone. If we talk specifically about the measures that relate to the rise in fuel costs and the intensity with which the fleet uses them, we believe that they must not only be short-term attention objects, but also have to be a medium- and long-term vision. In the long term, working on a progressive decarbonization of the sector, adapting ships to new fuels that make activity viable and that are assumed both at price and in technology. Galicia has to move forward towards a production of neutral carbon fishing food, but it has to do it in a sustainable, competitive and assuming way. In addition, we must meet this challenge in a fair way, which allows us to leave the sector and does not interfere with its activity and competitiveness. In the medium term, taking into account energy efficiency measures that allow rationalizing the use of fuel and adjusting its consumption. For that, we've been working for years promoting the development of such projects in both fisheries and aquaculture and transformation. It serves as an example of this advance: from 2016 until 2021 89 files were supported on this issue, with a public investment greater than 9 million euros, which generated a total expenditure of around 20 million euros. In the short term, making use of the measures available from the European Union, from the central government and also from the autonomics. Since the European Union we should send an additional effort to use all possible funds to the very end of the declaration of the exceptional situation and to put in place the mechanism of Article 26 of the Fempa. From the central government, taking the utmost advantage and demanding greater extension of measures such as those related to social security quotas and direct aid. In this sense, Galicia has already expressed its opinion and has stated its demands on the package of measures collected in Royal Decree Law 6/22 and which could be summarized in five non-exhaustive points: clarification and demand of the admissibility of processing and marketing undertakings in the aid formulated under Article 26 of the Fempa; clarification on the inclusion of professional petrol for use in the fisheries sector; application of the reduction of VAT to fishery products reaching the over-reduced type; temporary and limited flexibility in the regulatory measures to limit the import of raw materials; and extension of the international flexibility of fishing quotas. From Galicia we have defended more support leading to lower fuel prices for the most affected sectors, such as seafarers, and other measures that contribute to improving the liquidity of professionals more to generate income. That is why we urgently adopted measures to support the sector such as the exemption of payments, at least two months in the rates of autonomous ports - no less questions - or the agileization of aid offered in a similar way to the management line carried out during the pandemic caused by covid-19. In addition, on the 6th of this month we launch again the Galician campaign knows the sea to encourage society to consume products from the sea and raise their prices and thank the people of the sea, as far as possible, that commitment that is being shown going out into the sea in a difficult economic context. All measures add up and all must meet one of the open fronts. What we have of course is that we must all add up and not slow down measures and possibilities, we must cut costs and strengthen yields, we must, more than ever, be on the same boat. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u68	Thank you, Counselor. Replica Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Pause.) [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Madam Counsellor, indeed, we must all be on the same boat. But you have to look at it, and you have to look a lot to keep the ship going, because at this point it's seriously at risk of us staying without a boat and sinking at all. A large part of the country's economy and a large part of the country's GDP contribution. [[Applause]] Well, he finally recognized, at last, he recognized, at the beginning of his intervention, that Ukraine's is the drop that filled the glass, but that these circumstances were already albiscated months ago, of course. But albisquerading all of them. Only that the difference between you and the Government of what is part and all the rest is that you have or should have tools in your hand so that, in addition to abbisking and contemplating, as measures are put in place precisely, or if measures have been put in place that have shortened that situation and that it has not been exactly the war and what has been the cause of the war in Ukraine, precisely that drop that filled the glass. Of course he did, because a whole year ago neither a government nor the other one had been responding to the problems there was. I read in my first speech that BNG had already warned you in December 2021 of the budget debate. Finally, well, and then he says, on the one hand, that the sector must be driven by the measures taken, that is, taken by others, that is, by the Government of the State, by the European Union, on the one hand, by the measures taken by others and, on the other hand, by five non-exhaustive points which are also requests from other administrations. Of course, but our third question, Counselor, was very clear: what action is going to take in Galician Union? We're not talking about the European Union, the government of the State or the Vatican, we're talking about the board of Gaulza and the Council of the Sea. And then you start naming, and you call three, and you say, Exemption from payment of fees. Curiously the same as they announced on March 18 after the Council of Union, exactly the same, there is no variation. The second question is the speeding up of aid granted. Ah! That's what governments are for, to speed up exactly what you've already given, we understand that for others, because you haven't put any help on the table. And the Galician campaign knows the sea, which is the usual campaign, which is already routinely done. So, conclusion: we are where we were, the glass filled, indeed, and the board of Galicia in the same situation, without response, no response, absolutely none, Counselor. Look, I consider it to you — in general, the Greek Government but you in particular — a well-informed person, and I suppose you would pay attention to the demonstration that took place yesterday at the Compostela of thousands of people, a large part of them in the sea sector, precisely claiming that on the part of the Greek Government should be measured on the table. [[Applause]] And perhaps, perhaps, if he had time and effort until he could hear the speech that he gave there at that demonstration a sailor in the siege of Sada. I want to summarize: He said that he came from a family of marine ancestors, that he was capping the temporal as he could and finally concluded that the Greek sailors do not want — obviously, it is one saying — subsidies because they want to live from their work. Because this is exactly what they're not allowed to live on their work. [[Applause]] And they're not allowed because, Madam Quintana, in the last twelve years that you've been in front of the Council, all the data, absolutely all the data — the total number of vessels in Galicia, tons and value of fresh fish downloaded, the number of jobs that have passed... in 2009 we had more than 23,000 people employed in the sea sector and today we have only 19,000 — all these data indicate, apart from the exceptional moment we are, that you didn't come to work in the sea sector; that is, the situation that comes in these circumstances is much weaker than other sectors can get. Because all these years have been made decisions by the various governments — including the Galician Union, by action or by default — that just didn't allow them to develop...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u71	...his work. Finished, President. Counsellor, the fishing fleet has been wasting money for going out to sea, for working, for working! And you have to recognize that your permanent criticisms and your laity and regrets do not contribute anything, you have just become manifest in your first intervention. You, Counsellor — I am sorry to tell you this clearly — in particular, in the Council of the Sea, represents permanent inaction and the lack of solutions when needed. I don't know what you're waiting for, Counselor, to make decisions that are different from campaigning every year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u73	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, the truth is that I told a truth when I recognized that the Ukrainian crisis was the definitive blow to the fishing sector, and I haven't said it today, I've been saying it for a long time. And you know I've been working in the European Union a long time to avoid what's going on. You say one thing here and you defend another in the European Union. That doesn't happen to the people of the People's Party, that the same thing we defend here in Madrid, and we defend it in the European Union. I will not remind you that the directive on tax subsidies on the fuel issue you voted against in the European Union, and we continue to argue that this directive is the roadmap that must not follow the European Union if you want to count on a strong fisheries sector, which is necessary to continue feeding the whole European Union. [[Applause]] The truth is that you have a sense of nationalism a little weird, let me tell you. Because, of course, they always insist that Madrid's mistakes are paid by the taxes of the Greeks, and that's the truth that I'm not able to understand. We are asking Madrid what we understand that we should sue because they are Madrid's competences. The downside of VE is not the responsibility of our autonomous community, the exemption from payments to Social Security is not the responsibility of this autonomous community. Before we took the measures we took to support the fisheries sector, the first thing we did was to meet with the sector and evaluate what measures and what they were needed, and exactly what we were asked for from the Autonomous Community of Galicia was the exemption from port charges. And I told you in my previous intervention that we said yes to that exemption from port charges. That you have not yet published in the Official Journal of Galicia? Of course, because that exemption means a legislative change. What we are committed to the sector is not to pay those fees until the legislative amendment that will lead to this commitment that we have adopted and that we will comply with the exemption from port charges is approved. Another very different thing is what port charges are, because the real decree law that has published the state what it does is the exemption from the X4 rate, which is precisely the least favourable to the fishing sector. We're talking about tax exemption, not just from the X4, but from all the rates of public domain occupation and activity, so don't worry that you'll see the legislative amendment that meets the commitment that this government has made and that we'll make public once we've profiled the sector as the best way to compensate them for the overcost they're having. You tell me the other fantastic measure, the Galician campaign knows the sea. Mrs. Pérez, I don't know where you were in 2008, but in 2008 the fishing sector also went through the fuel crisis. At that time it only affected the fishing sector, and at that time it ruled in the Galician Union the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. And do you know what action they took in 2008 to help the fisheries sector? A campaign to promote consumption of the products of the sea that were already in progress, was the only thing they did. What did they do this time that they're in the opposition? A demonstration yesterday. A demonstration that's already produced, I congratulate you on that; we got the fuel to be 0.89 on Friday, and today's 0.91. They've already got something, which has increased the price of fuel. Those measures are useless, Mrs Pérez, it's a demonstration of what you want to do. But I can only tell you that your data is always very manipulated and you get here and says the fishing sector is going to be less every year since we've been ruling. In my first speech, I was referring to the fact that in the next few days, we will publish the input-output tables, which we delivered on Friday this week and we haven't had time to publish them yet, but we've been analyzing them. I'm going to give you a figure for your tranquility: from 2011 to 2020 the value of fish production in Galicia has increased from 3,705 million euros to 5,548 million euros, i.e. the value of production has increased, the value of all the products in our market has increased, and that's the line in which we will continue to work. And I can tell you, since you were talking here about the budgets, of course, yes, and we in the budgets have already proposed measures to further reinforce this increase in the value of production. Measures that were supposed to improve marketing, measures that we will take forward without your support, because I remind you that you in the budget asked us to remove all the lines of marketing aid. Unfortunately, the majority of the People's Parliamentary Group approved the budgets that the Welsh fisheries sector needs to continue to grow, to continue to generate jobs. And in that line and defense, we will continue to work, not only here in Galicia, but also in Madrid and the European Union, and you know it well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u76	Thank you, Counselor. Now we also make another change on the agenda, which is a question to the Government. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece in respect of the judgement issued by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in the light of the litigation-administrative appeal of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge against the Order of 21 December 2020, for which the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation for the Triennium 2021-2023 was approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u77	In this case, it is the question of Mrs Teresa Egerique of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u78	Good. Thank you, President. Good morning, Mrs. Quintana. They're already several times when time gives you reason. And I have to say that you know it's not an achievement for you, it's an achievement for the Greek fishing sector. You have shown your surrender, your tireless work in favour of interests in the defence of the Greek fishing sector. In June last year we agreed in Commission 8th, with the abstention of the Socialist Party of Galicia, a five-point agreement. In short, we call for the withdrawal of an unfair and unjustified administrative remedy submitted by MITECO and aimed at abrogating the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation for the period 2021-2023. I say it is unfair and unjustifiable because Galicia has since the 1990s been organizing the exploitation of marine resources and algae through annual management plans that are coordinated, and based on a system of coordination between the Administration and the sector itself. The Socialist Party, the Government of Sánchez, with the complicity of the Socialist Party of Galicia and the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, wanted to harm the fishing sector, they wanted to harm the marine sector. They wanted to re-legislate and decide and manage on the shores of the fishing sector, on the shores of Galicia. They wanted, for example, to interfere in the competences of the autonomous communities and, in this case, in the powers to harm — as I say — and not to benefit. A rapid chronology would be that in February 2021 the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge would refer to a requirement. They asked for a report — which they called paper — that in almost 30 years they never asked for. The Government did not heed the allegations made by the Board and in April 2021 it received the office announcing the litigation-administrative remedy. Well, on 16 March 2022 the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which dismisses the appeal brought by the State, is made public. Madam Quintana, as I said, you have made a ferocious defense, you have always denied that it had been done, that it was not legal, that it was an absolute interference in competences and, in addition, in the sector itself. And today we wanted to know what their assessment of that sentence we know on March 16, 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique. It is true that at the plenary session on 8 June last year there was a request in this House to take account of the situation created by the litigation-administrative remedy, presented in April by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Reit, against the Order of 21 December 2020, for which the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation was approved for the triennium 2021-2023, published in the Official Journal of Galicia of 31 December 2020. An appeal that did not previously have a request for clarifications or allegations about the interpretation of the Central Government, they only told us that you were abrogating and giving me the reason in writing. A position by the Government of the State with whom neither we nor the sector coincided, either in the background or in the form. A process carried out without dialogue, the result of an attempt at taxation that overwhelmed the autonomic competition framework, that is, a very serious fact. He lacked sensitivity and will on the part of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition with the mar-industry chain, obviating his reality again, in this case by putting on the canvas of trial decades of history, responsible management and co-governance of activity. But on 16 March 2022, the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia was published which dismisses the appeal brought by the State to derogate the Order of 21 December 2020. The ruling is a great satisfaction to the whole of Galicia because it has ratified one by one all the arguments put forward by Galicia in this judicial proceeding which has been unjustifiedly initiated by the Central Government against the Greek maritime sector. Because this was not a discrepancy between the Central Government and the Greek Government, this was a political attack by the Central Government against the Galician Sea sector, because no other autonomous community has been required of this report. The Greek Government, as you said, has been in the process for 30 years and has approved the plans for maritime exploitation without any problems or requests from any of the governments or ministries of any pre-emptive reports on this matter until last year. Thus, the Union has met and strictly comply with the legislation and will continue to defend the interests of the sector against a resource that I have supposed to play with its future. We know which side we are, what interests we defend, that it is none other than those of the Galician maritime sector, so this judgment is a victory for the Greek maritime sector in the face of a completely arbitrary attack by the State Executive. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u81	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u82	Good. Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the explanation and defense you've made of this sector from the very first moment. In the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that this is a new step towards paralyzing the Government's attacks on the marine-fishing sector and the sea-industry chain. In time we're going to win, we're going to be right, you're going to be right in favor of the Welsh fishing sector. As this judgment has been won, as it has been done with brownish for so long, as the law will move to the water-industry sector, but the big problem here is the existence of a fifth column against the Welsh fisheries sector, as you say, unjustifiable attacks that have nothing in favour of the fisheries sector. You remember, as I said before, that little paper that they were asking of us, they were talking about that it was just a little paper. Today we have 60 sheets, 60 papers, if you allow me, in a demolition sentence against the Government, in a government decision, to respond to that famous report. And you remember, too, Mrs. Quintana, the paper that was said was made when Cefas' powers did not come to Galicia and the minister came to refute that thesis. Today we have an Intemar which is a national reference laboratory in charge of the ministry itself. Counsellor, the problem is not so much that they confuse paperboards and paperboards and all the papers, the problem is that the Socialist Party in Galicia lacks direction and therefore ascends the gurus of the paperboards secondary to the main papers. And therefore they never defend, under any circumstances, the fishing industry. In any case and fortunately, we have you and your team to defend the sector, and we are the members of the People's Party in all the chambers to defend the Greek fishing sector. We defend him against attacks as unjustified as this one and to blind politically — if I may say so — to the one who attacks them. So once again thank you for your work, for your involvement, because time gave you, once again, the reason, Mrs. Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Egerique, thank you very much. What I would like to say is that that thanks for what you've finished is not for me or for the Government of Galicia, but for the entire maritime sector, which has shown you to be up to the circumstances, which I have been able to defend where to defend your interests, which is in the courts. I deeply regret that at that moment, really, if I questioned my work, the work of a whole team, that all he does is defend the interests of the seafood sector. I remember my very presence where the Members of the PSOE and the Bloc asked me to send that little paper without... yes. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, sorry, I'm not lying... everyone told me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u85	Please, Mrs. Pérez, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u86	...they all told me that I had sent the little paper, that it was one more procedure, without realizing that we were giving up our skills. And that I wouldn't assume to send any little paper that was against the exclusive competences that recognize us in the Autonomy Statute. [[Applause]] We can check the hemerothec, Mrs Pérez, we can check the hemerothec. You said you'd taken... [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u87	Please. Mrs. Pérez, please, Mrs. Pérez, you are not in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u88	You asked me to withdraw the resource, but they also told me to send the little paper, that that was a minor problem, to send a little paper. And that little paper is a paperboard because you were somehow renouncing the historic rights of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. That's reality and we're all alive here thanks to God to believe it was. And I can tell you that once again the Galician sector has shown that there was more to it than many politicians here in this Parliament, because they defended their interests where they were to be defended: in the courts. The court was right. [[Applause]] I now hope that all Members of this House will ask the Central Government not to continue to meditate on whether or not the appeal is presented. Why should we continue to play with the interests of the fishing sector? They defend the interests of the fisheries sector, they defend that we are working well, that even in the European Union they defend and model the management we have for marine resources. That is, really, if they want to help the sector, as they have to, and not sowing those doubts that they say from the Ministry: We will read the sentence calmly and we will value a marriage remedy. If you read the sentence calmly, I suppose you'll get enough colored to never even question the filing of the appeal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u89	Thank you, Counselor. We'll stop the meeting until 16 hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u90	We resumed the session. We discussed a motion from the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria do Carmele González Iglesias, on the promotion of component factories for automotive. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Ms Teresa Egerique Mosquera, in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau an amendment to this motion.Replacement amendmentThe text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Gounta de Galicia to demand the Government of Spain:1.- Include in the planning of the Spanish Electric Network for 2021-2026 Vigo's connection to the network of Moto High Tension and the construction of a new substation in the Balido polygon to meet the needs of supply of Stellantis and the rest of the driving industry, in terms of quality and price.2.-to convert the Lost electric vehicle and connect to a tool to actually support the transformation of the automotive sector with fair and transparent criteria, allowing thousands to respond to the use of new tools in Vigo and to the rest of the driving industry, its position from the first available platform, the industry and directly accessible to the industry through the tools provided through the tool.]] To formulate the motion, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u91	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. In the interpellation that the BNG brought the full past we once again saw a second vice president and advisor of Economics, Employment and Innovation eluding responsibilities, throwing balloons out and looking for culprits, something that Mr. Conde has us very accustomed to. BNG insists that the Galician Union has full competence in industry, and the role of the German Government cannot be limited to sending a letter to the President of the State Government. The reality is that we are losing our career in the automotive sector because of lack of political weight, a government more concerned right now by the inner successions of the People's Party than by the future of Galicia. The transition from the combustion car, from the electric car, is unstoppable and Galicia is not prepared to compete in this race. In the past full we saw a negationist advisor boasting a 4.0 automotive industry that doesn't match the vision of the sector itself or even the European Union. Brussels, aware of the negative consequences this transition will cause, is implementing policies and measures that prevent loss of productive capacity and loss of jobs. We're seeing how the battery factory installation is announced for Valencia and Galicia miss that opportunity. We see how North Portugal earns industrial weight every day while Galicia loses it. The relocation to this area of the neighbouring country threatens the automotive sector in the Vigo area with the consequent loss of employment. We see how Portugal in recent years has been able to deploy new auxiliary automotive factories in the country while in Galicia one, zero in recent years. And in the face of this situation, we have an impassable, paralysed government in which policies are limited to accompany, to be next to the industry, to follow up on the leadership of Stellantis, without its own initiative to strengthen a strategic sector for the country, and in particular for Vigo and its region. In 13 years of governance of the Galician Union, the People's Party was unable to put in place a plan for the automotive industry that gives stability to the sector. The lack of auxiliary component manufacturing industry is causing continuous stops in production due to lack of microchips in Stellantis, stops that cause the work instability of thousands of people working at the factory itself and auxiliary companies, pending the telephone permanently, with continuous changes in their work days that prevent reconciliation with personal and work life. Above all, the dependence on the Asian countries that produce these components is already being addressed by the European Union, which has already announced a plan to boost the semiconductor industry, with EUR 43 million. A plan to cover 20% of the world's demand by 2030. This plan, included in the European chip law, is an opportunity that Galicia cannot miss, to guarantee the future of the automotive sector in our country. And the question is what is the Government doing to ensure that they are implanted in the area of Vigo semiconductor factories under these aids? And it does not reassure anything at all of the counsel's intervention in this Chamber 15 days ago, because the only measure he announced was the sending of a letter to the President of the Government of the State. And much less reassures the content of that letter that he himself moved us. According to the advisor, he has transferred his concern that Spain may benefit from this plan. Twice he appointed Spain to indicate the importance of this plan and never once named Galicia in his letter. The advisor doesn't know very well whether he's already got his head in Madrid or whether he's not supposed to be the second vice president and advisor to the Galician Economy, Employment and Innovation Board, and that his only priority must be the Welsh industry. And that's where the problem is: the null defense that the People's Party Government at Union makes of Galicia and its industry. They haven't taken up a single new competition for 13 years, and those of us in the People's Party in the Welsh Government don't exercise them. The Union has full industrial competences in Galicia, and the Welsh industrial policy has to run and exercise it by the Government of Galicia, and it does not. Gallia doesn't deserve a government with an acting president, a head government in Madrid, while other self-governments fight and defend their industry. In Galicia we have a government of the Fearful People's Party that believes that defending the industry of the Welsh automobile is to send a letter to the president of the state government without more. And so we lost the battery factory in the Vigo area, we lost the attachment of the Balados polygon to the high-voltage network of the Porriño and the construction of a new substation. Companies are moving to Portugal; we lost 1,530 jobs in the automotive sector in 2021. The working conditions of the workers in the sector, etc., were precarried out. And now the People's Party will go up to this rostrum saying it's all the fault of the state government. And look, you'll be right, but it's not in this Parliament where you have to be held responsible, that's why the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. This is where we report to the Government of Galicia, where we call on the Government of Galicia to act in the face of the problems of the Galicians and the Greeks. It is in this Chamber where we have to urge the Galician Union, which, I insist, has full competence in industry, which points to the future of the Welsh automotive sector. A sector that is strategic not only for Galicia, but for Vigo and its region in particular. We are, as I have said, at a crucial moment for the automotive sector, and it is urgent to promote a plan for driving which promotes the installation in Galicia of new industrial actors and activities related to the sector, which break with the current excessive dependence on a single manufacturer, and which guarantee the production in Galicia of those most valuable critical components added. It is urgent to develop an active policy, with the Government of Greece leading the defence of the German automotive sector in Madrid, resolutely and firmly, accompanied by the whole sector. It is necessary to set up the Bureau of the Automotion to draw a roadmap with consensus across the sector, entrepreneurship, trade union organizations, administrations and universities. I insist you don't waste time. We're at a crucial moment for the automotive industry worldwide and Galicia can't stay behind. The Welsh PP has to focus on Galicia. I'm going to make a recommendation: I recommend more leaves and fewer fairs in April, more mills and less sevilanas, and more coffee liquor and less apples. Put your feet on our land and defend what you have to defend, defend Galicia and its industry. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u92	That was very good, thank you very much. It was nice of you. [[Laughter]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u93	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Mrs. González, I don't know what you have against Stellantis. So they started with Ence, now they want to get her out of the way, eliminate all the jobs. They're doing the same thing with Stellantis. And don't divert the shot, Mrs. González, don't divert the shot, because here's also the councillors and the president of the board report every 15 days. What happens is, they don't like what they say, they don't like them being close to people, they don't like us winning the elections, but they actually report and explain all their work. Look, we are presenting today an amendment that reflects the agreements that really call for the automotive sector, in Vigo or Galicia, which reflects the agreements they apply for from Stellantis and the auxiliary companies themselves. [[Applause]] And you, Mrs González, called on the second vice president, and today you present a motion which is out of reality, which does not take into account the context in which we are currently, in April 2022, in which the Government of Spain despises and ignores the automotive sector in Galicia. In what the Government of Spain despises and ignores the industrial sector in Galicia. That's the context you have to ask the advisor about, and don't divert the shot. Because he made a clear statement here about everything he did to Junta. They base an interpellation, and now their motion, in a letter, turns the letter up, the letter down! but really, the automobile has serious problems now, which has to solve a government of the Socialist Party supported by the Nationalist Block of Galicia and which is associated with independent parties and with Podemos. Look, you go to the board when you know perfectly well that those who are mistreating and ignoring the motor vehicle sector in Vigo are the Socialist Party, the Government of the nation and the Vigo Mayor of the Socialist Party himself, and the delegate of the Free Zone, of the Socialist Party. As I say, Stellantis, the people who are working at their own factory, or the whole auxiliary company, are the ones who are really putting the needs after being competitive to work on equal conditions and to look forward to the future. Nor can you lose sight of the favors that Sánchez has to do to his independent partners. Because we're seeing that the only support you make from the Government of Spain to the automobile always goes to the Mediterranean, never take Galicia into account, that you know perfectly well, but here comes to whitewash, absolutely, Mrs González, a government that is supporting the automotive sector on the Mediterranean coast to the detriment of the Vigo automotive sector and the Galician automotive sector. And we don't want the benefit at the expense of other people's prejudices, we can all benefit and we ask for what is really fair, we ask to be on equal terms, what belongs to us and what Sánchez denies us. And I repeat, deny it with the complicity of the socialist mayor himself, the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Look, you're talking about ads that never come true. I'm going to tell you now fundamental needs, which are also announcements, that they don't come true, but that we don't say so in the People's Party, that we have called you from Parliament, that we have called you from the Council of Galicia, but that you don't, and that you really are the decisions of Teresa Ribera, the decisions of Sánchez and the decisions of Yolanda Díaz. See, "Stellantis Vigo warns that the PERTE does not guarantee the future of the Vigo factory.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[The lady reading a sheet.]] Ignacio Well, about the electrical network planning: "It's frankly disappointing." "It will bury the attachment to the high tension that Stellantis sees crucial to its continuity. They haven't even called us, they say from the multinational."; "Tables deny the government about the battery factory: they have not called me." "Stellantis reiterates that the Government has not asked him to manufacture batteries in Spain." "Tabares sees thirty years of Spanish engine success at risk by Spanish government policies. By the policies of the Government of the Nation and the Government of Pedro Sánchez." Therefore, Mrs. González, do not divert your shot, because the Galician Union is demanding exactly what the automotive sector in Galicia needs and is denying it every day. Look, this I think needs a deep reflection and it makes us ask a lot of things. Because what model does the Socialist Party of Galicia or the Socialist Party of Spain, the Nationalist Block, pose in Vigo? What model does he pose in Galicia? Do you want a city without industry? Do you want to make a model like Pontevedra? Do you want to load the whole industrial sector in Galicia? It's lawful, it's legitimate. But tell him! Tell him! Tell them openly! 11,000 jobs are at stake. The future of the Galician automotive industry is at stake. Because the future of the automobile in other parts of Spain is not at stake with these government decisions. Galicia, Vigo, plays an ambitious strategy of electrification that would allow Stellantis to have a completely electrified range that needs, in 2025, is absolutely necessary to secure their future. And, as I say, it's been growing for 30 years now, it's been in danger for these kinds of decisions. I have to remember that the high-voltage substation was included in the electrical grid planning until 2026, when the People's Party ruled. And Sánchez arrived and I took her back. And we asked for it from here and they didn't listen. And now Ribera gives you the final folder. And they still don't listen and ignore, the government of Sánchez and the mayor themselves ignore the demands and needs of the automotive sector. 'Cause maybe they don't care, but they have to admit it, they'll have at some point to recognize it. Stellantis is at great risk if no letters are taken in the matter, if no important decisions are made. And the decisions that up until now are taking the Government of Spain are not going in the direction that Stellantis and the automotive sector needs, they go in the opposite direction. And the mayor, Abel Caballero, looked to the other side; and the delegate of the Franc Zone looked to the other side; and Sánchez looked to the other side, always looked to the east, always looked to the Mediterranean, never looked to Galicia. Sánchez never looks at Galicia. And in Vigo they don't demand the Socialist Government what the automotive sector needs, and we all have to demand it; because, as the vice president said here according to the other day in the interrogation, it's more than said. And you despise that letter, but it's a request, a necessity, it's a decision that the Government of Spain has to make, with loyalty, in addition, from the Council of Galicia. Look, as I say, you don't refute the argument, because we can't doubt that the Galician Union has supported the automotive sector. Mrs. González, we can't doubt it. Both Stellantis and the Welsh automotive industry, made up of 200 companies, because Stellantis is the fundamental pillar and all the auxiliary companies grew around. And the jobs are as important as those of Stellantis as those of the auxiliaries in the entire area of Vigo. Look, I'm all an example thanks to your bet on excellence, digitization, innovation, sustainability, talent. It all started with a strategic plan in 2004 to bet and get here, and now the cluster of the automotive company, CEAGA, which has grown, is already developing the fourth strategic plan. You can't say here that there are no strategic plans or work plans because, if we're here today, it's because in 2004 that plan started and started that bet by the automotive sector. So now we need those decisions, we need all the support for the sector to anticipate new mobility scenarios. Remember that in 2015 the first autonomous car that travelled the Spanish roads came out of Vigo, with all the support of the Government of Galicia, of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Also remember that the Balados plant already manufactures Peugeot E2008 and a wide range of electric vans. You bet that the role of Joining was crucial and fundamental too and that it also strengthens the R+D+i Factory 4.0 project. This has to go on, we can't and we can't afford that, by the decisions of Teresa Ribera, who is really the person, right now, is the minister who is doing the most damage to Galicia, we are without the automotive sector in Galicia. And do you know what the autonomic administration's investment in automobiles was? 200 million euros. And you know why? To keep jobs, to keep jobs, to be competitive; so today, for example, Showa Denko wants to be in Galicia to produce graphite batteries all over the world. To make Galicia a focus and a pole for automotive and not other territories. So, or we all end up here in this Parliament in the same direction or Stellantis is in danger of disappearing and, around Stellantis, his entire auxiliary company. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the support of the Galician and Alberto Núñez Feijóo to the automotive sector is beyond doubt. Out of the question! Look, today they should take the amendment into account, because in the amendment there are three points that really are what move us to continuity. It's true that jobs and support have to be done from the Galician Union, from the Autonomic Government and from other administrations. But it's crucial that these three points which we are presenting today to ask the Government of Spain to set in motion. We therefore ask you to support the amendment with the point that says: "1. Include Spain's power grid planning for 21-26 Vigo's connection to the high-voltage network. And the construction of a new substation in the Balados polygon to meet the supply needs of Stellantis and the rest of the automotive industry in terms of quality and price, to be on equal terms. 2. Convert the PERT to the electric vehicle and connect to a tool to actually support the transformation of the automotive sector with fair and transparent criteria. Just, not to be in inequality of conditions with other territories. 3. Give priority to projects associated with the manufacture of semiconductors, taking into account the European funding plan provided for in the European Chips Law. Responding to the participation interest expressed from Galicia." Because from Galicia we can and from Galicia we can do it. And if the Government of Spain doesn't believe in us and despises us, we won't get there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u95	So we must all row in the same direction to defend the automotive sector in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u96	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u97	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, first of all, I thought we were going to debate a motion about the microchips crisis, but it seems that here the People's Party Member has spoken something else, as is the very high-voltage substation in Vigo. And, I tell you, I don't know if you know that last week the mayor of Vigo said he defended and defended -- and defend! -- the substation of very high tension. He's talking to the Government of Spain to give him a solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no one believes that the mayor of Vigo doesn't defend the automobile, no one. No one believes it! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, well, let's go to the topic that touches, which is the microchips crisis. The month of March, which has just ended, Stellantis Vigo's plant has been in total unemployment for several weeks due to the global destruction of semiconductors. In 2016 each new vehicle was equipped with an average of more than 9 chips, in 2019 this figure was already more than 17 chips, and in 2021 it was more than 20; and with electric cars and autonomous cars this figure continues to rise. This is an example that clearly indicates the increase in microchips demand. Supply problems will continue during 2022 and surely also during 2023, according to Stellantis. The current situation is so worrying that several initiatives have already been launched. Firstly, at global level, chip manufacturers rapidly increased their investments in more capacity and expansion of factories. This is happening in all chip producing countries like the United States, China, Taiwan or Japan. But possibly the most important initiative in Europe is the implementation of the new European law on chip, announced last October by the President of the European Commission. But this European Union will use this legislation to promote greater resilience and sovereignty in regional chains of chip and semiconductor supply. The President of the European Commission himself suggested gaining more autonomy in the manufacture of chips. This whole situation is affecting the employment of the Greeks and the Greeks. Employment in the automobile was reduced by 6.1% in 2021, up to 23,450 direct workers, by the cut he brought with him the stops due to the lack of microchips. The scenario posed to workers and workers leaves no room for optimism, the affected workers, between Stellantis and the drivers of the automobile, are more than 10,000 workers in ERTE throughout Galicia. And besides, the loss of temporary employment by closing the weekend shifts in Stellantis, which drags the auxiliary industry, destroying more than 1,500 jobs in these months. Everything caused by the lack of semiconductors and other electronic parts, which are having supply problems. And the German Government, with these numbers of job losses in this sector, is neither expected nor expected. He's not even expected. The Galician Union must adopt palliative automotive solutions and start preparing the sector for that model change that is being produced from the combustion vehicle to the electric vehicle. It's an opportunity for Galicia to be able to attract new companies of components linked to electronics and connected to electric mobility and that don't end all suppliers in Portugal, as is happening now. The German Government should make an industrial policy so that this new reality of the automotive sector can also be consolidated into one of the important suppliers around Vigo. Without a doubt, the automotive sector is fundamental and strategic on our land, and Mr. Feijóo's government — well, for now Mr. Feijóo — has to put a solution to the great problem we have today, which is the semiconductor crisis, because we are talking about thousands of jobs in danger and none has done or does anything. The other day the second vice president didn't say anything, he didn't say he was going to deal with this problem. What will the Government do about this problem? Don't say anything! It's a real shame! But, on the contrary, the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, announced today that he will approve a new strategic project for recovery and economic transformation on microchips and semiconductors, equipped with EUR 11,000 million of public investment. This if it's real help, this if it's measure. Yes, yes... Oh! Yes, of course, of course! [[Applause]] This if it's measures. And don't come here and tell stories. [[Murmurs.]] Counts! [[Murmurs.]] The Government of Spain does put solutions on the table — they do not seem to like — in the face of this problem of decommissioning semiconductors and microchips, and not like the Government of Mr Feijóo, who does nothing at all. [[Applause]] Of course, he's worried about other things, he's worried about being in Spain ahead; and, well, in Seville, in Madrid and so on, instead of being fixing the problems here for the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And I would like to remind the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that they seem to forget that the powers in industry have them in the Council of Galicia - Article 31.2 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia -. That, as we continue to celebrate the 40th anniversary, they could do a little bit of a case to this Statute, to what it says here. Do a bit of a case for him! [[Applause]] Skills in industry, you have the German Government. [[Applause]] The German Government! Here. They can listen to him. I'd be fine. It would also be nice if we were told where the Galician Union is in this semiconductor crisis. Where is he? What are you doing? I'll tell you what you're doing: nothing!, they're totally missing. But, well, we're used to it. The Galician Union knows absolutely nothing, it seems the industry doesn't go with it. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo only knows about photos, photos in Stellantis does but, let's go!, I don't know how many a year, but many. This is Mr Feijóo's great industrial policy, photos! Photos! [[Murmurs.]] And in the meantime... they seem to want to intervene, I don't know, they can come and intervene. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] If they want nothing, it's fine, if they want to intervene, for nothing, I'll leave them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u99	And in Portugal, they have a strategy that's marked across the country for the attraction of industries and an atomized distribution of industrial polygons, and they're taking advantage of the synergies and opportunities of their proximity to Galicia. And, you know what the consequence of all this is? That companies move and go to Portugal, and that's what's happening thanks to Mr. Feijóo's government, without doing anything at all, it would be good if they got to work on industrial policy once and for all. Yes, it is. They do absolutely nothing in industrial policy. Look, I think Vigo is a perfect enclave for a photonic circuit factory, i.e. chips, and for a self-contained car project, due to its proximity to vehicle manufacturers. For the chip photonic circuit factory, Zona Franca, which is the Government of Spain, has already taken the first step with the installation of the quantum laboratory in collaboration with the University of Vigo, a film for Vigo and Galicia that would place us in the European PAMPA of high technology in semiconductors. And last week, without going further, last week, at the Free Zone Council, one of the points to deal with was the photonic circuit factory. And I'm going to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which is going along quite a good path, and it would be good if they had been supporting this project since the Council of Galicia, that they collaborated instead of criticizing and confronting the other administrations, which is the only thing they know how to do, to be in constant confrontation. The Vigo Free Zone is in the vanguard of some major projects in Spain, such as the development of the connected vehicle. THE PERTE of the connected electric vehicle must meet all the needs of the automotive companies and Stellantis, for their importance in Spain, but also for Galicia and for Vigo. The sector should be able to draw up future plans with export capacity. And look, honourable Member of the People's Party, Mrs Egerique, the PERTE of the electric vehicle and connected to Stellantis, especially for a specific article, 8.4b, which is a request from the Stellantis company, where the Vigo and the Free Zone negotiated directly with the Government of Spain. And this article points out that it will be able to finance the adequacy of existing industrial ships and installations and equipment, not directly linked to the production process. A point that will be vital for future Stellantis projects. And Galician Union, where was it in all this process? Missing, as always. But, well, that's what he's got us used to. It would be good to join the projects, which collaborate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that we are one of the biggest economic crises of the past and that we must be all the administrations together, united to bring this country forward, that Galician men and women need to work and not always tell them that the blame is on the other. Yes, because for you always it's the other's fault, you all make it perfect, perfect! Yes, for look where the Government of Pedro Sánchez gives solutions to this crisis of microchips and semiconductors, which does not do the Government of Mr Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u101	... of Mr. Feijóo, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u102	Quiet, please. A lot of noise, a lot of noise, too much, I would say, a little order, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, because what's in the use of this word in his speech was very disturbing, of course, because they interrupt the speech, and bring the trusted speech, because I've been there too, but that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u103	He's right, he's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u104	...but this happens to all of you who pass by, so let's be respectful of this situation. Today for you and tomorrow for the others [[Laughter]] Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u105	Okay. I'm done. [[Laughter]] Then I end by saying that Feijóo and his government have been and are still a disaster in industrial policy, yes, they are a calamity in industrial politics and they are a calamity in industrial politics in a strategic sector such as automotive, but also in a strategic sector like the naval, which is going through serious problems. We have the Barreras, the Vulcan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u107	...ship assistants. Yes, you are a disaster in industrial policy. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u108	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're upset, don't you see? Author group of the motion, Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u109	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Egerique, I did not despise Mr. Conde's letter, I simply say that it seems to me an action... to say least seems very much to me. I mean, it's very rare, because if all the defense of the automotive industry that we're doing is sending a letter to the president of the state government, then we're sorry because they treat us badly and they treat others better. Well, no, I mean, clearly, if you want your projects to be above others, you'll have to make a firm defense and spread all necessary measures, and not comply with sending a letter to the President of the Government. And that's basically what Mr. Count told us 15 days ago, who sent a letter to the President of the Government, without disrespect. [[Applause]] I ask: you said here that for which side we looked. I ask him: which side does the PP look to?, what side does he look to—because, besides, we are Vigo and we look, we claim here our verb—the People's Party? Because we have it quite clear, the People's Party looks at the side of the big companies, looks at the side of the big multinationals and never sees on the side of the working people of the industry, never sees for job creation. The test is the latest data given to the automotive industry: substantial increase in profits, loss of jobs. Which side does the People's Party see, Mrs. Egerique? Maybe they should explain it to us. You're telling us about CEAGA's Strategic Plan, yes, it's true, CEAGA's Strategic Plan, not Galicia's Board, eh! It's the strategic plan of industry, and what the Galego Nationalist Block demands here is that the Union should set itself up to work and draw a roadmap from its own office, from the hands of companies, trade unions, universities and the rest of its administrations, but not that we should host the industry project, but rather that we should draw our own project. That's what the Galego Nationalist Block demands, that we don't follow the parent company, that we're not against the parent company because that's something that loves telling the People's Party, because it seems that we're against Stellantis and that we're evil, the demon, that all we want is that Stellantis closes, because in Vigo without Stellantis we're going to be wonderful. No, we're not talking about it, Mrs. Egerique, we're talking about what we need to have, I told Mr. Count the other day, we have to put the eggs in several baskets, not in a single basket, because if that basket breaks Vigo he's out of work. They insist that the policy of the People's Party is accompaniment, to follow side by side, to support industry. And the BNG insists that the function of the Government is not just to support, to follow and to accompany, that it is, we are not saying that it is not done, I say because here you have to nude everything because they catch you in the back. Priority measures for a Government with full industrial competence must be directed at the country's industrial policy, not to accompany, follow up and support. We need to steer policies, so we have full competence in industry. But, of course, this is difficult, it's difficult, because leading industry policy on the other side is difficult to maintain. We've got 3,000 jobs at risk, because it won't be necessary to switch from the fuel car to the electric car. And today - I don't know if you know - there's a Member of this House, Miguel Tellado, who's taking several plenarys without appearing, is very busy, and he gives us the key to the importance of the People's Party, the importance that Galicia has for the People's Party. Today he tweeted, at 12.15 a.m., while the rest of the Members and honourable Members were in this Parliament: "We don't have a minute to lose, Spain can't wait any longer to have a high government." In Galicia we want him down -- he must be fishing chicken, Rosana. [[Applause]] Are we saying that in this country we do not deserve a government of height and that to have a government of height the People's Party will go to Madrid? Is that where their heads are? No, the head has to be in the country, it's the function of a Government of the Galician Union, which is now in interplay, we know it's difficult, a complicated situation, because we don't know if we're here or there, but we have to focus and the automotive sector is at a crucial moment, we have to plot an industrial plan that guarantees its future in the new model of production of the car that comes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u110	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u111	And with regard to the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u112	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u113	I'm very grateful when the People's Party tells us we have to row, row, just tell Mrs. Egerique, we all have to row in the same direction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what game she's in, what she's in, what she's in, what she's got to row, but if she sees that PP only understands how to row in the same direction if the boat is theirs The boat is the PP, and so let's all end together, if we don't finish. [[Applause]] No, look, Mrs. Egerique, today I come here to talk about my book, yours has to come another day, we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Donna Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council regarding the sector of residences of older people. A self-amendment was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia and an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u115	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u116	Thank you, President. I welcome again the sector of workers and workers in the sector of residences of older people in Galicia, represented also by IGC unions, Workers' Commissions and UXT. Thank you very much for being here again. And I make this motion today, derived from the interpellation of the past full to the social policy adviser on the occasion of the strike of the workers of senior residents of Galicia. Because today I want to give you the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that supports the Government of Greece, to amend your own advisor, to whom I offered you to speak in the past full with the collective of workers and workers here present of residences and, at the end of the plenary, after we offered you the opportunity to speak and take advantage of those who were here, decided to ignore the workers in the sector. So today you have the opportunity to compensate for this behavior and attitude that for nothing, really, is in line with the circumstances, with which you are falling, and voting for the rights not only of the workers, but also of the older people who live in residences, who are the competence of this German Government. Because the workers did their part and grew up. The employer offered certain improvements and signed the renewal of the work agreement of the resident workers, but those who failed to meet their part were still the Greek Government, when it had to be the first to give an example, when it had to be the first to comply with its part to enable the employer to offer broader and non-inadequate improvement conditions as they were signed. And if Junta had on the table already some ratios of workers and up-to-date workers, if Junta had on the table better conditions of concerted square resources, we'd probably be talking about something else today, we'd probably be talking about better conditions than they signed up. [[Applause]] Because the chess game by the Social Policy Council is expensive. Because we're talking about future conditions for workers in the sector, for the next, at least two years, and indirectly, and also directly, about the very care that the older people receive, for which they have to look after this German Government. And the truth is, we've been talking about the new residential model for a long time, almost two years, and the German Government hasn't done its job, so, as a result, in many residences the modus operandi seems more, as we said in the previous full, due to the strike, and the workers, in a photo in the media, said they looked more like a assembly chain than a home for older people or dependent. They have today the opportunity to compensate for the desire and lack of action with this problem after two years since the outbreak of pandemics, and many years ago since the sector, the Board of Auditors itself or the Galician Supreme Prosecutor's office themselves have warned that something would be wrong in the management or supervision that is done from the German Government itself in senior residences. So today they have the opportunity to look into the eyes of the workers in the sector and the workers in the sector and to vote in favour of updating the ratios of workers and workers, according to the number of residents, depending on the degree of dependency, in order to increase the number of professionals in each centre to avoid that work overload that exists today and that they are paying the workers day by day, and indirectly and directly also users. They have the opportunity to vote in favour, to progressively equate the number of hours of the annual hours of the workers and workers of private residences with those of the residences of the Galician Union to improve the dignity, care and quality care that the older people deserve. And they have the opportunity to look into the eyes of the workers and vote in favour of updating the resources you visit the Galician Union for every square that they concert, which are many in this country, in order to be able to provide more resources to the sector itself, to ensure these professional ratios, to ensure that there are the number of workers and workers who need to be able to provide quality care, which is what the older people need, who have been working all their lives and deserve first care. In short, they have the opportunity to compensate for everything they haven't done in the last thirteen years. The Greek Government has been practicing for many years, as I have said in the full past, the policy of eyes which it doesn't see, but heart by shame does feel it. They feel the workers stress by overload, not physical stress, but emotional stress, which is much harder. They feel the family members who dared to denounce the failure to comply with the regulations, like many workers who reported it and paid it with their jobs. And they also feel the older people, who have been working all their lives from children and deserve social recognition from all of them and from all of them so that we join and start our efforts to get first-rate care at the last stage of their lives. The reality at times is very hard, and when we ask this House for an investigation commission on what happened in the homes of older people during the pandemic, the People's Party that supports this Government said no. And all the representative parties of Galician citizenship here here we hear in this House the words of the representative of the Association of Galician Residential Workers in Parliament, and I quote textually. I started by asking the question, "How should older people be cared for in Galicia?" And he said, "With great affection. They live in a residence, they need to talk and be heard. I'm not a car to which we fill the warehouse and let it park. Increasing staff ratios would take longer to attend, to stop, to take them by the hand, to help them eat quietly, without hurrying, because they are not turkeys of fattening." These words are very hard, but, as I said, reality is sometimes hard and you have to face it. And these words should remove consciousness and take immediate action. However, here we continue, almost two years later, asking again the same questions that we have been asking for so much time, more than two years, among them, and one of the most important, that increases the number of professionals updating the ratios. In an initiative led by Guipúsco's Special Deputies to analyze the residential network for older dependents, by experts on the subject, from the sensitivity of residents, their socio-family environments and professionals involved in care, the following is concluded: the sector would show its maturity if the threat of the pandemic was reduced to an opportunity for real improvement. An agreement that should profile the strategy of change from six fundamental axes: One: analytic study of cost per square and its corresponding with dependency typified profiles, because the fact is that here in Galicia there is an indefinition of the modular composition of price per square, by the Public Administration, and indeed also the lack of transparency in the corresponding calculations. Two: sufficient ratios adapted to the dependency variability for each care unit. Thirdly, professional consideration and equalization with the likesimilar sectors, especially with regard to health. Fourth: public inspections guaranteeing the integration of economic and assistance objectives to achieve real well-being. Implementation of innovation strategies as an engine of advancement and improvement, listening to the empathic and proactive expectations of residents and their socio-family environments, to adapt centres to people's needs and not people's needs to centres. And all this, versus the situation of the sector in Galicia, the autonomous community with the highest percentage of private squares in Spain, the second with less inspection technicians to monitor whether things are doing right or wrong in Galician residences. It is the self-government that less resources per resident, potentially, of all Spain. All this, a molotov cocktail for the care sector and the people who use it, which, today, as we continue with the investment of the population pyramid, leading the aging rankings, is the sector of the future, and will affect them all at once or early. And it's very sad that when the workers in the sector decide to strike, in addition to waiting for the right moment not to interfere with the work and not to leave the people thrown away when they needed it most, the Government prevents them from making use of their rights, decreeing minimum abusive services that were impossible and prevented the right to protest because practically all of them had to cover the minimum decrees. That in the end, when the German Government intends to prevent its rights to protest, with those minimum services that compromise almost all personnel, in the bottom they are publicly recognizing the central problem of the matter: that most Galician residences have at least been at a minimum for all these years. We need more staff and better conditions, but all of this has a cost, and Junta needs to increase resources in the homes of older people, as the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia and the Board of Auditors itself said, which also urged the need to increase the number of public squares in Galicia urgently. It's time to act, and the Greek Government can't keep playing in the eyes that you don't see, because the sector is feeling down, the workers have done and done their job, and they've been up to the circumstances. Now you need to buy the German Government. They do not regret what they vote today, because in a few years we will all need, each of us, this care sector. So take responsibility for this. They've been determined for 13 years and with a obvious lack of supervision, when they have the competences of this German Government. It's time for them to step forward, look into the workers' eyes and look into the eyes of the older people living in Galician residences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u118	Don't look the other way, act now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u119	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u120	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, too, to the people who are, from the guest and guest bench, following the debate. We also greet union representatives from the BNG. And I wanted to start doing a recognition, as a reflection, so you've been living in the last few weeks and what you've done. On one occasion here, within this Parliament, we said, in respect of other labour conflicts or other conflicts and social mobilizations, that sometimes, even if you don't achieve the goals that you set yourself, it doesn't mean... or it doesn't remain worth the mobilization that is done. The strike in the residences, or the private residence workers, was historic, in a very complex, very precarious sector, very precarious, because it's enormously feminized. We've said it many times, we've talked about it on other occasions, that if we were talking about an area where more than 90% of the workers were men, this situation would probably not have been given. An essential sector, because you support the lives of people, or part of people, the most vulnerable in our country. You have all our recognition, but I believe -- to a large extent today the debate is centered there -- that recognition is about guaranteeing better working conditions for all of us. [[Applause]] You are 10,000 women, practically all of you are women, you are 10,000 people who are employed in the private residential sector of our country, who have endured like no one a pandemic that has suffered painfully during the first waves the oldest residences, and tell us, I believe that to all groups, not only the BNG, that you have taken or dragged the tiredness and effort of that pandemic, but hopefully you continue to work every day to defend your labor rights. We wanted to focus today not so much on the outcome of that convention or the renewal of that convention, but on the role played by the Galician Union and the role played by the Galician Union in all this. Because if in something he focused his intervention the counselor in the previous plenary was to throw balloons out, shave up like anyone says, i.e., this isn't going with me, this is a problem between private companies and the workers who depend on those private companies, but the truth is that it's not. The Galician Union is directly responsible for the situation in which you are working, because the vast majority of these private centres are supported and financed by public funds. An invoice amounting to 100 million public euros a year, which needs to be repeated more, because it is paid annually with taxes for the Greeks and the Greeks a hundred million euros a year to support a vastly privatized sector in which almost 80% of the major residential squares are private. [[Applause]] So no one can say here that this is a problem of a couple of companies and their workers, because the directly responsible for the situation in which users and workers from private or concerted public residences in our country are also members of the Galician Union. In fact, the Social Policy Adviser devoted three quarters of the time she had - which she did not wear out, but three quarters - to say and repeat, to focusing on her intervention, on a supposed training plan, as if the problem of workers and workers, mainly of residents workers, was that they were poorly trained. In any case, we believe that the Galician Union has played a rather regrettable role, and that these more than a hundred million public euros that are financed, or that the private sector of residence is financed through the concertation, concession and residence bonds, these public funds demand a greater involvement of the Galician Union, which has left the workers and their trade union representatives at the foot of the horses. We had a debate in Commission 5th, just on the eve of this strike, and then we told the People's Parliamentary Group, that the Galician Union had a direct responsibility and that to put itself on the outside the only thing that made it leave the workers, that we all wanted, that we all recognized, that we all valued, left them alone and at the foot of the horses, after an agreement that was expired — have to say so too — since 2019 it had not been renewed. That first issue is directly responsible and, in that sense, not only did the Galician Union have and it has the responsibility to encourage negotiation and to promote and defend always the interest, the workers' wages and labour rights, but it is directly responsible for the improvement of those working conditions. Because it must be remembered that the Galician Board determines what is the ratio of the minimum direct care staff for dependent or autonomous users who are in senior residences. That in this country those minimum personnel ratios are established by an Order of 1996, as if in almost 30 years in this country nothing happened, as if they did not change the conditions of persons who are users of senior residences. And the truth is, today we have a user profile in residences that is completely different from what we had 30 years ago in this country. You've already changed your own residential sector and then you've also changed very much the profile of people who are users. Today we find a greater degree of dependence, a greater number of people who have dementia, who have Alzheimer's, degenerative processes that require greater attention and a much more specialized care. And that means a greater workload for workers who care and care for people in senior homes. Today, in the evening shifts, there are residential, non-private, concerted and onions with public money for the Galician Union, where there are two assistants to care for more than 100 residents, with a user profile -- I insist -- which has nothing to do with what we had in this country, almost 30 years ago, when that order was approved. It is a necessity and an urgency to open the melon on the modification of those ratios, not only to increase them, but also to modify the formula for calculating those ratios, to determine which profiles are real attention, which are technical services, and what is the general service profile of the workers and workers of a residence. And we're told that there's no desire on the part of the Galician Board to make the modification of that order in 1996 and then calculate it differently and increase the calculation of ratios of people of direct care per resident. Because in these four sheets the new model of residences of the Galician Union is this. We ask for it by Article 9 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure. [[The honourable Member shows some leaflets in the House.]] This is basically called an internal argumentary, it's 4 pages. It is not quoted here once — not one! — that you have to increase the ratios of direct attention staff or the calculation so you estimate how many people have to care for an autonomous user or a dependent user. This is the perfect example that you want to make something up to reality so it looks like something changes, but it's all almost the same. And we cannot — we always say — leave the same door as we enter this crisis and, above all, with regard to the homes of older people. We need more people working on the care of users and residents, and also new professional profiles, of course, to understand the new and different reality that people today have. And the third question. I will refer to the amendment we tabled from the amendment BNG, which replaces point 4. We do not agree that we should increase the number or the money — let us say, the public funds — with which the concerted squares are supported. We are not at all in agreement, and I also commented on it before to Mrs Ortega, in the pleas for conciliation — I caught this one that is from Lalín but they are all practically equal — it is already specified in the contracts themselves that will not be subject to revisions of prices according to the legislation of public sector contracts. But it is also calculated — I would also like to read it so that we know what we paid, in terms of that — today the price that is paid from the Public Administration to a service place for older dependents is, with IVE, 52.42 euros; in the case of care for older persons with autonomy, with IVE, 45 euros. Here's the price/price/user/day: in the case of care for higher dependents, the result of staff costs by 51%, according to the current salary tables, 44% of the general costs but the remaining 5% corresponding to the estimated count for industrial benefit. Because I don't know a single company that isn't in the market to make money, because we also pay them 5% of the benefit that corresponds to this type of concertation. We don't think companies are going to improve working conditions because it increases participation or public resources in Galician Union. What we understand and believe from the BNG, and that is one of the lessons we must learn from this crisis, is that what we need here, from this House, from the Galician Parliament, is to urge the Union to strengthen and expand the public network of older residences. First, because the current offer as a whole is very scarce, we don't get to the WHO recommended ratios by adding everything there is, and only 20% of the squares are of public ownership. We have to think in addition to the model of care, the goal must be that you can grow old in your home. That has to be the goal and for this it is necessary to spread a whole range of services, home and community care, which today are far from fulfilling the international recommendations of the objectives to which any government should aspire. In that sense, we hope that the proposal will be accepted to incorporate the need for the Board to design, develop and approve a plan for the implementation of new public residential centres in Galicia. Always thinking or planning comprehensively all social equipment and services for their necessary coordination and complementarity between them all. We have to get out stronger and better from this crisis caused by coward-19, and I think the reflection or the best way to find the answer to if we go out better or it's not to see what working conditions the people who have been giving it all, but absolutely everything, in the residential centers, when the pandemic began to hit this country. I'm telling them we're not getting any better. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u122	Thank you, President. The truth is that strange things are being heard in this Parliament: a group accusing the general secretary of the Galician People's Party of not being here today, which is the same group whose voice is the most filmed lady in this Parliament for months. You get paid for your stay here does not charge! And they're coming to suck! [[Applause]] And then we have the other side of the opposition, which comes today to tell us about the absences and the people who leave, and they haven't just found out that the only deputy who isn't here today is your group, Mr Rivera, who has submitted his resignation, I suppose by the cohesionists who are all of you. [[Applause]] Anyway, things you'll see! Let me start talking about this by paraphrasing Mrs. Ortega's words in her 15-day interpellation: "We didn't have to be here," she said then. And it's true, because you actually came here to teach us how to solve a strike... which, by the way, today is fortunately confused, thanks, among other things, to which the Social Policy Council did exactly the opposite of what you asked. So, if you'll excuse me, you've missed a great opportunity to withdraw this initiative and not sink into the buzz 15 days ago. Because you have to remember what you asked for 15 days ago: you called on the Board to intervene in negotiating a collective agreement by violating its obligation of neutrality in relation to social dialogue between trade unions and employers. You called on the Council to usurp the functions of the Galego Labour Relations Council, an independent body that deserves the utmost respect and which has exclusively the specific role of mediation. You demanded to lower the minimum services, which were intended to ensure the proper care of our elders; by the way, non-care workers, workers on a holiday, non-care workers, the minimum ratio imposed on any company. The minimum ratio! Of course, you can improve your ratio. By the way, what is the ratio of the residences of the Deputies of Lugo and the Coruña? You were surprised! Exactly the same as any private company. What things! There's no obstacle to better ratios -- I remind you -- is that what you did to Junta? The Board did not intervene where it should and cannot intervene, the Board respected the functions of the Galego Labour Relations Council, the Board guaranteed the well-being of the residents' users, and the strike was resolved by the established legal channels. Conclusion: If you want not to put the bow in the stones, do exactly the opposite of what the PSdEG says, surely success! [[Applause]] Sure success! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, look, the reality is, you didn't have any intention of cooperating in the resolution of the conflict, but to see if you were able to fish in a raging river. And he accused — we remember — the Council of not wanting noise or strikes; and, therefore, he felt otherwise, you made it clear that it was what he was looking for: noise and strikes so that he could continue practicing the innocent art of demagogy. You then took up all the demands, absolutely all without exception, of the unions. Who is he with now? With the collaborators of the exploits of the working class? I don't say. Or the one who signed a pre-agreement that now says it was a quirk? Because today I heard BNG's friend representative, of course, saying that this is a shame, the agreement that's reached, and that they didn't sign it. Of course, what happens is that I have the pre-agreement here, and the pre-agreement is that it was signed; the question to be asked is, why did they get rid of the pre-agreement? Has Mrs. Pontón arrived and ordered to stop? You'll have to explain why what was a good pre-agreement that all unions have signed, this week is a betrayal of the workers and an exploitation of the working class. Look, you accused the Galician Union of ignoring the workers and residents. I was surprised because he did it at the same time that Mr. Sánchez's Government — the Government of his party — accused the small carriers of being facades and refused to receive them. Yeah, man! [[Murmurs.]] It's just that this is how it is. We don't insult or disrespect the workers. You do... well, you have to tell the workers and everyone who disagrees with the Socialist Party. Today my companion, Mrs. Candia, said that everything that doesn't coincide with you lately is a façade. No, it's not true, for a long time, and this has to be remembered: Suárez?; Rosa Díaz when the PSOE came out, a façade! Albert Rivera? If he signed, good boy, if he didn't sign a facade! Married?, a facade! He made it, a façade! Otegui, man of peace! This is the PSOE that has touched us to live today! What are we gonna do to him! [[Applause]] You're like that! [[Applause]] And you have to applaud them and you have to thank them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, you're only right when you're rectified. And I, therefore, think what they should do is continue to correct and withdraw today the part of the motion that brings us and which has not yet withdrawn because, of course, a part has already been told to withdraw it. And I'm going to ask you for a series of corrections — if you'll allow me — because I think you're wrong by demanding a change in the employee ratios of residences in Galicia while your Government in Madrid asks us to negotiate among all autonomous communities in Spain a ratio for common residences in the whole territory. Who do we listen to, you or your government in Madrid? I think you're also wrong when you ask us for a progressive reduction in the annual agenda. Because I don't know if you read it, but if I read it well — I think so — it already includes a reduction of 7 hours this same year and a reduction of 7 hours more next year. I mean, what you asked for and what you woke up, like, through an agreement between unions and employers without any government interference. It calls attention to me that you continue to ask for more public squares, that is, at the same time that they privatize all the squares of residences that you cogovernan — because this is something that they have never explained to us — and that they demand us to open up new public squares. In the meantime, yes, they agreed to paralyze the construction of a public residence in Ourense Town Hall for months. Because to mount mud, to keep public services from getting better, so that you do have an infinite capacity for dialogue; for that, and for sharing seats when playing as well. Finally, I'm going to ask you for a final correction which I think is quite reasonable. Look, either you stop asking for more resources for the concerted squares or you stop accusing us of favoring companies that carry private residences, because both things at the same time can't be. It's just that it's impossible to fit in. So you can't accuse us at the same time of enriching private companies and impoverishing private companies. You have to agree with yourself. For once, even a match with Mrs. Rodil, is that you make me run into some strange things. I'm telling you the truth. So, man, I'd ask him to clarify himself. And since I started reminding him of his own words in the past, I'm going to do the same when I'm done. You said that the worst thing that can happen to a politician in the exercise of his functions is to lose credibility. Don't dilapide yours anymore, Mrs. Ortega, because you have truly covered yourself with glory today. In any case, and you've already set out to rectify, look, I'm going to take advantage of these last words to congratulate the advisor, that of what you said, after the appearance of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, that he was in a situation in the government quite committed, and to which a few hours later he was appointed a member of the National Board of the party chaired by Mr. Feijóo. So, if you accept my advice, stop asking for someone else's eyes and start asking for some smell for you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u123	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u124	Thank you, President. Ask me Mr. Peaces with whom I am now. Well, I'll answer it. I've been, I'm, and I'll be with the workers in the sector. Who's the German Government with? Whose side is the German Government? [[Applause]] It's enough to chill with a matter that affects, and much, and in the circumstances in which we find ourselves. And a little bit of respect because she's confused, as you said, for several questions. Among other things, by the very least abusive, which has prevented the strike itself, signed by the advisor himself to whom you are applauding. Why? And also because if you discount them, if you don't know, their wages, which sometimes do not reach, Mr. Pazos, the minimum interprofessional wage, with which you cannot assume to be on strike much longer considering the opacity of the Greek Government and the lack of presence in this matter, washing your hands and looking elsewhere. Those, among other things. Because, moreover, she is also confused because they have to move on, because the situation was unsustainable and although they reached an agreement not enough for either of the parties, not enough, because the situation was not assumed at the moment and had to arrive, of course, from the German Government, all this despite the Greek Government, which did absolutely nothing. That we had to bring here an interpellation, that we had to bring here the workers in the sector, to which the advisor ignored. Because I told him they were up there, that I could, not that I lost any... He didn't have any problems, I understand, because he's also the representative of the people, he's representing... by the way, that they presuming so much of the absolute majority and don't return confidence to the Greeks and the Greeks who voted for him. And they have such a lack of sensitivity as workers are here, and they're not worthy of receiving them or talking to them. And what do we have to thank the advisor in this case? Because he didn't say it, he didn't. Then she also said, and also the People's Party repeats a lot, that since they arrived in the government, the People's Party to the Greek Government, which has created many squares in the residences. How you created them! Zero public squares have created you since you've been in government. Zero public squares and they come up with what? Those squares were born from their own emergency. The inertia itself, the supply itself and demand pushed an increasingly aged Galicia with less youth. And also an increased demand, by the way, for Mr. Rajoy's 2012 Decree, which now carries it on the label: Mr. Rajoy. That put a special taste on the wages of caregivers and caregivers, children and children of dependents. The ones he told them: if you want to keep charging, pay it from your pocket. What do you think? That's what happened, and here the German Government applauded him. And what happened later was another transvasion of older people to residences and today we have an intractable market deficit in Galicia, far below the rest of autonomous communities throughout Spain. And we are also leaders, as I said before, always in the podium, under not only a smaller number of inspection technicians, but also in higher privatized squares and, as I say, if you choose that type of sector, if you vote them and choose that type... what does it do to me? If you choose that kind of management, you have to be responsible and compensate for it with a number of inspection technicians that can put your eyes where you don't have them, to know whether or not you meet the regulations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And don't pass the things that happened. Because in the end, those who pay are the older people, who are their direct competition. You can't wash your hands and look somewhere else. And I find it totally disrespectful not only to the workers in the sector, but also to the dependents themselves who are in the homes of older people. Because, as I tell you, so much they boast of most absolutes, they don't leave these people thrown away. Don't leave the workers laid off. How will the number of professionals not be increased? Do you think it's not necessary to increase the number of workers and workers in the sector right now? You've never been to a residence, have you? You didn't talk to the workers if you said that. If you're really acknowledging that you don't need to increase the number of workers in residences, you mean you're not in Galicia, you're not with your feet on the ground. They have to talk more about the sector, they have to go out and talk to people. They're totally out of reality, that's what happens. The work they do from the residential sector is essential and important to our society, and especially to Galicia. And I repeat, it's a very hard job, which requires special conditions, not only physical resistance, but also emotional resistance, which is often the most important. More professional, with better conditions for them. This is the best formula for humanizing the context of residential care. That's what we're talking about now for the new residential model, humanization means that, humanization is to put more workers in the sector so they can give quality care. That's humanizing the context. They act with responsibility and sensitivity, today for them and for them and tomorrow for us. Make it possible, it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u125	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u126	On the amendment, we accept it as an addition because we believe it enriches the text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u127	Thank you. [[Pause.]] A person from the House cleaning services proceeds to disinfect the floor.) G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the increase in prices and its impact on the economy and homes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u128	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this table the following amendment to this motion:Amendment of amendmentThe content of point 2 must be replaced by the following text:"2. To approve aid to complement those approved by the Government of the State, temporary and direct, to the livestock and maritime fisheries sector affected by the increase in production costs in order to ensure their immediate survival."Additional AmendmentThe 5th point after the added texts is replaced by the following:"5. Lower the rates of self-proprietary self-propelled motorways by 75 % of the fares for transport professionals and by 50 % for the rest of users.Incentive that the Government of Spain negotiates with concessionaires, in particular that of AP-9, a similar drop in state-owned motorways."]] To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, fifteen days ago, we were questioning the Government of Greece in the face of a limited situation that our country was living because of the rising prices, and which has some important consequences both in society and in the economy. And, of course, when we did it last week, we were expecting some reaction from the board responsible for the economic planning of the Galician Union, but we certainly didn't get it. And fifteen days, in a moment like what we live, of course they can be an absolute eternity, every minute they spend is a missed opportunity to take action that restrains some consequences that only fire faster than inflation is fired, and that they fall over each other as if one of the castles was being treated and hitting — the worst of all — who is worse. And at one point, a government that's been installed in San Caetano for 13 years might expect a minimal reaction capacity, but of course it's not proving it. We don't know if it's useless or if, worse yet, it's a lack of will. But, of course, in these fifteen days what we saw was more of the same, a government that seems paralysed and that is basically of crossed arms, installed in that new role of Tertullian government that they recently adopted, more focused on seeking basically guilty than using self-government to find solutions for the Greeks and the Greeks. A more focused People's Party, we've seen it also in recent months, in saving its own acronyms than in addressing the emergency situation that many Greeks and Greeks live with needs that, unfortunately, are growing. And in these we follow, which seems to be April is going to take place as the month of March, with a government more focused on paraphernalia succession than in the exercise of such a government. And 15 days ago, we saw how, in fact, the Councillor of Fairy was not able to explain here a minimally credible roadmap to a context before which the budgets of the Board did not present the slightest anticipation or response, and the President of the Board saw something worse, because he didn't even bother to talk in this House about any one minute of the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. But it's only that fifteen days later, like on the day of the marmot, we're still the same. We came today in the morning, for example, a Middle Rural Counsellor who seems to have just discovered that there is a problem in this country with the sale of losses in the primary sector after years. Or we also saw the Fisheries Adviser, who seems to be the problem of the price of fuels and the issue of oil in the sea is something that began fifteen days ago with the war in Ukraine and it wasn't a problem of earlier, as it was contextualized by the voices and the nationalist voicer. And this is basically the picture. And if it was bad enough that Parliament was basically converted to the People's Party on a plate in which to give press rounds, now we've seen that they have turned the board of assembly into a phenomenon that is basically like a sort of advertising and propaganda exploding machine every week, and they're dedicated, in the midst of an unprecedented and absolutely demolition crisis in our country, to sell us with a new envelope issues that were already planned, programmed in budgets, to try to give the feeling that they're actually doing something when it isn't. And we can set examples. In a context where any small and medium-sized company in our country is thinking of whether it's going to be able to keep the blind man up until the end of the month, what the German Government offers is help to improve energy equipment. That we don't say they're not necessary issues, that there has to be these kinds of measures, of aids, but, of course, when a small autonomous is thinking about closing because he can't pay the bill of light, the last thing he thinks is about renewing his machinery. Likewise, brought to the economic situation of many homes in our country. Let's think of some of those nearly 700,000 homes in our country that were last year and I'm already at risk of exclusion or poverty. Well, of course, they're probably not thinking of hosting a Renove plan to renew your fridge for a lot of lack of food, when what you're thinking is how they're going to be able to fill it week after week to do something as elementary as having a decent diet. And so this is the panorama, there's an extraordinary and urgent context, and there's a government that crosses its arms in the place of government. And it happens that the situation doesn't improve, it's the other way around. If we talked about the February inflation data 15 days ago, we've got the progress the National Institute of Statistics is making with regard to the March data. The state level is 9.8%, until April 13th, we're not going to see the data from the Germans, but it doesn't need to be a futureologist to know that they're probably going to be over 10 percent. And that's because since this worsening price crisis started, over six months ago, there hasn't been a single month in which the data from the Germans compared to the monthly or the annual comparison was no worse than those from the state. And this may seem to be an economic abstraction that translates into reality with a very simple example, which is really what's happening is that the Greeks and the Greeks are impoverishing themselves faster than the rest of the state. So we're getting worse, because we must also say that we have less resistance capacity thanks to the policies of the People's Party in the last 13 years. And we can look for examples from all areas. We know, for example, in terms of wages, that the average of the Greek wages is 600 euros lower than the average of the state. We know that we have the lowest pensions, and we also see that the latest data we knew this morning at the Galego Institute of Statistics are worrying. For example, the data from the confidence indicators came out, we worsened on all the confidence indicators in the first quarter of 2022. And with regard to the economic situation of the Greek homes, for example, we see that we have 51% of our country's homes - more than half - that come with difficulty or with much difficulty at the end of the month. Or we see, for example, data that may appear to be positive as an increase in social security affiliations, but if we scratch a little, we see that in Galicia they grow at a rate that is less than half the state god, and we also see that we are of the five communities in which we grow less in both monthly and inter-annual terms. So this, in addition to the fact that, as we said in the previous plenary session, there are elements of our economy that make us more sensitive right now, for example, in the energy field, it is clear that having the weight we have of the electrointensive industry influences in an area where the prices of fuels are rising and it is clear that we do not have a public transport worthy of that name and the territorial provision plays against us, etc., etc. So we have a delicate situation, because as much as the Greek Government is trying to guard itself that this is something that is happening in the whole state, which is happening in more countries around us, what they are denying is that in Galicia this inflation is becoming more intense, that there are elements of our economy, of our context, that make us weaker than how they brought us here, and therefore it is time for the consequences to be mitigated as soon as before, and that the Greek Government should be exercising self-government to do so, to mitigate the consequences on our country and the people who need it most. It's basically what we call doing Galicia, making this country worth, and what made this Sunday there were in this town of Santiago de Compostela thousands of people mobilising and asking the Central Government and the Government of the Union to stop looking elsewhere, because the moment we're living requires urgency and contemplativeness, and they're not taking either of the two questions. And, of course, what we're not going to allow is that some of them are still installed in this paralysis. We insisted on an idea that we had already made clear 15 days ago: in a context like this, what can a government do? First, try to move forward, and the German Government didn't. We have seen it in the budgetary debate, many of the problems that are currently happening were anticipated, such as the material crisis, rising prices in some areas, and they did not act, they simply cited it. The second question you could ask is to take action as soon as you can before and you don't. Since the crisis has worsened, with the war of Ukraine, three Councils of the Union, which are expeditions of advertising and propaganda. Or, thirdly, they could try to listen to others, dialogue, and talk to other relevant agents of political, social, economic life in this country to take action. They're not doing that either. So today, what we have is a theoretical shock plan that, basically, is a bluff, which does not rely on specific measures, which does not introduce a single fiscal measure, which does not arbitrate direct aid. In the worst moments of the coward-19 this Greek Government took eight months to arbitrate direct aid to sectors that had to be rescued and it seems that they are willing to repeat the month mistake and wait eight months to act again. And basically, what they did was they changed some programs and arbitrate credit and liquidity measures that are necessary but not enough. And, therefore, today since the Galician Nationalist Block, what we're doing is to insist, structural measures must be taken, that's obvious, but it's also the time, now, to take urgent action. That's what we proposed in four areas of action. First, taxation. We have to arbitrate immediate measures to correct the lack of taxation, progress of the IRPF right now, giving them relief from lower incomes. Direct emergency aid must be approved for the most punished sectors. Social protection must be broadened by increasing the content of the main social benefits, such as Risga, macho violence and energy poverty, and we must help our pensioners. So we insist once again, they've been extending the minimum supplement to non-contributory pensions for more than ten years, and we ask that it be raised at least in 100 euros. So these are concrete proposals that the German Government could arbitrate in less than a week. If they don't do it, it's for uselessness or lack of political will. We insist, it is not the country that they keep looking elsewhere, make this country use, and adopt urgent measures to mitigate this situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, while we were still recovering from the economic and social crisis resulting from the famine 19 pandemic, the invasion of the Russian army from Putin to Ukraine marked a new stage, aggravating a pre-inflation situation resulting from the outbreak of the crisis, essentially by rising energy prices across Europe since the second half of 2021. This inflation is causing a serious impact on domestic economies, on the competitiveness of businesses and the global market industry and on medium- and long-term economic growth. In February, as the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block said, the annual CPI variation was 7.6% for the state as a whole and 8% for Galicia. That is, an increase in higher inflation for our community rather than for the whole state. And we have an advanced indicator, but we expect the indicator to come out for our community. This increase in raw materials such as gas and oil or the possible depletion of certain inputs, which are the causes of this generalized price increase, affects families in general, but they are given especially to those most vulnerable families and to certain productive sectors. A situation that, if public administrations do not act, will increase even further the inequality already existing in our country, and the most affected sectors will have much more difficult to get out of the crisis, or will directly be brought to a close. So politics once again plays a key role for society as a whole, necessarily having to become a useful tool for citizenship. Although it is true that the People's Party in recent years has ceased to be useful and has not understood that politics has to be that useful tool being its main mission. An issue that has been forgotten at the most serious moments since the onset of the pandemic. The People's Party, that party that is self-denominated as a state party, has abandoned citizenship by voting against the most important and necessary agreements to get out of the health, economic and social crisis. You voted against the arrival of 140,000 million euros of European funds Next Generation-EU to alleviate the effects of the pandemic crisis. You voted against the expansion of the different states of alarm. You and the Galego Nationalist Block voted against labour reform, a reform that is already producing very positive results also in Galicia, reversing the instability and precariousness of Mariano Rajoy's reform. And you also voted not to the Royal Decree 8/2021, of urgent measures in the health, social and judicial order to be applied after the end of the alarming State, which in its chapter III sets out the extraordinary measures applicable to situations of economic and social vulnerability, such as ensuring the supply of water and energy to vulnerable consumers, the right to social welfare or protection measures in situations of vulnerability to housing. You voted no, and by the way, the Galician Nationalist Block abstained. You have also abstained and the Galego Nationalist Block has also abstained in the approval of Royal Decree 23/2021, of urgent energy measures for consumer protection and the introduction of transparency in wholesale and retail markets of electricity and natural gas, which regulates exactly the increase in the electric bond. And you and you both abstained. So you guys are what they say and something else is what they do. You announce measures that if they were for you, they would never get to citizenship, so you're never in trouble. The People's Party, during these two years, has been engaged in confrontation, criticism and political breeches, simply looking for electoral revenue. We'll see, the socialists are waiting to see what the new president of the People's Party is going to be positioned and, therefore, of this so-called new People's Party, whether they're going to continue to harm citizenship, essentially the most vulnerable people, or they're going to change and stand beside the Government to solve the most important problems in this country and that affect our citizenship. You can start by voting in favour of validating Royal Decree 6/2022, but we'll see, we'll see what this new People's Party is going to be. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Members and Members, they should know that we are talking about basic services and that they directly affect the welfare and pockets of citizenship as a whole. Look, in the face of the advertising and propaganda of the Government Feijóo, we have the administration of the Government of Pedro Sánchez in the state, which itself manages, that yes governs and approves measures that directly affect people's lives. Faced with the announcements of Feijóo, this information on the media that hangs us after the Councils of the Union, which speak of reports that never exist, are the actual decrees of the State that are published in the Official Gazette of the State. [[Applause]] The averages announced by the President — still President — after the Boards of Directors, both on the 17th and the 24th and the 30th — are insufficient measures. Many of them, which were already planned, are not measures taken ex-professionally for this new situation. They do not provide direct assistance to sectors and people affected by this situation. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, another way of ruling is possible and real. Thus, the Government of Pedro Sánchez published on 30 March Royal Decree 6/2022, in which urgent measures are taken to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, which consists of eight targets and five pillars, endowed with €16 billion, and immediate compliance, such as lowering the price of gas, electricity and fuel, supporting the most affected sectors and businesses and the most vulnerable groups; strengthening price stability, ensuring supply; protecting financial stability; speeding up the deployment of the recovery plan; boosting energy efficiency, and strengthening cybersecurity. They are real measures that have an impact on the whole of citizenship, and basically on people who are going through the worst. A minimum bonus of EUR 0,2 % per litre of fuel, the prohibition of dismissal of workers, companies that have received direct aid or ERTE with public support. The rent review, with a maximum of 2%. The increase of 15% in the minimum vital income, the expansion of the electric social bond to 60,000 families, the extension of the tax discharges of the bill of light, 75 million euros additional for the thermal social bond or direct aid to the most affected sectors, 362 million euros for agriculture and gain, 68 million euros for fishing, 500 million euros for the electrointensive industry and intensive gas, more than 1000 million euros for the transport sector. Measures to review public procurement prices and EUR 1 billion for cybersecurity. These are measures, while together with Portugal, they will present to the European Commission an exceptional and temporary measure to set a reference price for gas used for electricity production. Since then, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, while Feijóo announces and follows in that Government of advertising and propaganda, Pedro Sánchez governs and manages to improve the lives of the people of this country and to make no one stay behind. We socialists are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, even though we have tabled amendments that we hope will be approved or accepted or taken into account by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Because the socialists, where we rule, put action, and here, where we do not govern, we support in this Parliament all the measures that can benefit their citizenship as a whole. Yes, yes, of course. BNG presents a PNL that has five points. The first is to push the actions to carry out an IRPF reform that corrects the lack of progress. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour, since the Socialists, in the Law of fiscal and administrative measures that are debated with the Budget Act every year, propose a more progressive scale for the IRPF scale, since the Socialists understand that those who earn the most must contribute something more to get out of this crisis together and without anyone remaining behind. At point two, we tabled an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u133	...that we understand more up-to-date, since it already takes into account the actual decree passed by the State. And they approve, within the Council of Galicia, aid to complement those approved by the Government of the State. That they be both temporary and direct to the agribusiness and maritime-fishing sector affected by the increase in production costs in order to ensure their survival...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u135	...not immediately. In the third and fourth, of course, we're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u136	Thank you. You got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u137	...a total agreement given that we have initiatives presented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u139	...in the same sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u141	Well, I've anticipated our vote. It is good because — I insist — we socialists always vote for all the measures that can favour their citizenship, citizenship as a whole. And you, Members and Members of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u143	...they could learn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u145	...and to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u147	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u148	People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u149	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I was confirming with the president that we were on the Block motion, because after listening to the socialist spokesman I thought I was wrong about time for the debate. Well, in any case, I would like to take the floor: if there is anything in favour of Galician citizenship to vote, tomorrow I hope — thank you in advance — with the vote in favour of the GNP, which we have taken precisely to promote Galician citizenship from the People's Parliamentary Group. Because, indeed, in this plenary we are debating three non-legislative proposals, two non-legislative proposals and a motion. The three of them, on the issue of the economic crisis. The economic situation, which is characterized by inflation that has already come from behind and which, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine, has increased significantly. It was at 6.1 in January, before the invasion, and in March it reached 9.8; that is, an important climb that makes it happen practically from what is called moderate inflation to galloping inflation. And, of course, this also establishes new uncertainties, because we all thought and the international bodies thought, that, as a result of the pandemic, bottles were closed and would therefore be transitory. And yet, the war in Ukraine - and also think about what can lead not only to war when it is over, but even to reconstruction of the country - can make this situation more persistent and thus worsen the situation. The situation is serious because we have, first of all, cost inflation, which is an inflation that is generated by the price of energy. I think this is something we should recognize all if we want to solve the problem. And why do we have an energy inflation? I'll give you some data now. Well, because indeed — as we have been reporting for many years since the People's Parliamentary Group — we are with an excessively fundamentalist government which has not planned the energy transition well. We all share the need to decarbonise the economy but making a fair and balanced energy transition in time. And while Germany bets on coal, we close the coal plants; while France bet on atomic, we continue to give no moratoriums on atomic, our few nuclear power stations. While the United States promotes fracking, from being importing the energy exporter, it turns out that we are what we are doing is prohibiting it from entering. The result is obvious, it's ahead, there in the Bridges; we close The Bridges, we start dismantling it and then we bring coal back, we turn on it, and while we're in need of The Bridges, we approve its definitive closure. The inflation differential is impressive with the European Union: 9.8 in Spain and 7.5 in the European Union, 30%. The underlying, on the other hand, which is free of energy or fresh products, in Spain is 3.4 and in the European Union of 3. That is, the difference, if we put energy and fresh products, is 30% and nothing more than 13% if we exclude energy. Energy IPC in Spain is 43.7, while in the European Union it is 32 and in Germany and France 22. We also have an inflation that has its origin in demand, the bottle collars of the pandemic, the microchips, etc., which were aggravated by the fact of the Ukrainian war. And, above all, both in the energy field, by imports of gas, and in some fundamental materials or inputs, particularly for some Greek products. Think of the oils of the canned or wheat and other raw materials related to agricultural production and the thought of the gain. And the previous trend is dissipated, and obviously — as I said a moment ago — it will not be enough to fatten the global distribution channels, but we also have the problem of solving the invasion and successfully. Well, about the effects of inflation I think it's convenient -- given an overview and a general perspective on the problem we are debating today and tomorrow -- that it's not true that Keynes said in the book The economic consequences of war, a classic, said that "the effects of inflation are like lottery"; that is, it doesn't affect any social class or specific economic sector, they're tremendously random, hence their injustice. Normally, it favours — as is natural — debtors, because debts lose value, harm creditors; and the State, by the way, is the main debtor of the Spanish economy. And it clearly distorts prices, there are people who are protected because they've started their leases, not others. And it affects the whole economy, for example, in efficiency; and the proportion of relative prices is lost, and therefore decisions are not so efficient. And it affects, above all, the growth, the famous curves of Phillips, for a long time we know that in the short term there seemed to be a direct relationship of more inflation more growth; and now we know that long-term inflation significantly reduces growth as a result of uncertainties, which reflect investment, which is also more expensive because, to combat inflation, the types of interest rise. And to close the context, we're in a globalized society that tends to reduce globalization and therefore reduces the ability of markets to lower prices through competition; closing channels from certain countries and thus making there unique providers that can be more expensive. And in the field of the European Union, where we have a single market, the fact is that this differential inflation also affects the growth of the Spanish economy, because we have lost competitiveness in an important proportion, as I have just said, of 2.5 points. And finally, it affects the public estate. The Public Fairy enriches. These days there was a certain debate about who takes advantage of the tax system, but the fact is that the tax system favours the state in a very important way through progressive tariffs, through the minimum exemptions, which are frozen; through tax deductions from societies by depreciations, by valuation of stocks, and so on. And in fact, when the Fairy Minister says that it reduced the projected public deficit from 8.4 to 6.7 — that was 6.47 — more than 31 billion euros of deficit reduction from what was planned, it turns out that this has to do with the inflation we're having, which went from 4% to 6.5% in the last quarter. Only in IVE were 3,500 million extra collection. In 2022, in the first three months, the collection has risen above 7.500 million over the forecast. And, finally, by each inflation point, the state's collection of 1,700 million euros is growing. And of this, the autonomous communities don't see anything. That's why the minister drew breast, so he went out saying he had reduced the deficit. As everyone knows, the incomes that the autonomous community receives are the same throughout the year because they depend solely on the advances that the state advances, which are in budgets. So all the funding differential, as well as we praise it when there are negative liquidations but they don't apply and they allow to keep spending, here it goes backwards; now the state is taking clear advantage of this settlement, which, in its case, will come to Galicia within two years. Well, all that leads to us is that we have to reduce inflation by measures of this scale, this dimension. And, of course, first at European level; at a European level which has customs policy and monetary policy, which is the fundamental instrument. And secondly, with national policies, through income pacts, through an orderly energy policy, through a fiscal pact that also involves the rapid investment of Next Generation funds. And, of course, by making structural adjustments to competition policy, because we have many oligopolized sectors and, in particular, that of fuels. As we know by the Galician Competition Court, it's one where there's a lot of collusion agreement to raise prices. And finally, making selective aid to those who are really affected by inflation and not generally to the whole economy, because there we are, of course, wasting resources and also fueling the pump of inflation itself. Dialogue, long-term perspective. Dialogue that has not been shown with the transport strike, long-term perspective as it has not been shown to anticipate that the fuels would be lowered and then created tails; and also to anticipate a rise so that the climb was not so heavy for the gas stations. And, of course, Mrs. Presas, we don't think the solution goes by mobilizing a lot of people in the streets, as we said when the president showed up. About the motion. The motion... and it's not about this... it's just about looking at it, it's about contextualizing; just like, finally, I think when it comes to employment, what has to be contextualized is that since the Galician pandemic, unemployment has been reduced, unemployment has been reduced by 7.76 and Spain by 4.23. Why? Because it didn't destroy so much work here. Why? Because the pandemic was better handled. But, of course, if you pick up the last data, where the unemployment has fallen most now they come out more, why, because here it hadn't been destroyed so much, didn't it, fortunately? But this is the figure since the pandemic began: 7.76 decreases in unemployment; in Galicia, 4.23. The perspective makes us think that correcting progressiveity is nothing more than deflating the Greek tariff — which, by the way, they did not put it in the amendment that they tabled tomorrow — but because when we discussed the budgets you, which besides not wanting to deflate the tariff, what they wanted was to raise the tariff — were the amendments they tabled. But they also said that deflating the tariff benefited the rich. Here you include him and tomorrow he falls from the amendment, it's a curious subject. But, in any case, it would not affect Galicia either because — I insist — the retentions will remain the same and will therefore have no effect on citizenship. Secondly, with regard to the supplementary aid for the livestock and fisheries sector, I believe that this morning it was quite clear that, in addition to the fact that the Block wants us to pay with autonomous funds, what it is appropriate to pay to the European Union and the Government of Spain, by providing direct resources when those administering agricultural policy is precisely the European Union, because we have raised questions and raised questions such as the exemption from port charges, to anticipate the payment of aid in force; and, for example, in the agricultural field, the advance of the CAP with the opening of a liquidity line of loans up to EUR 30,000, in addition to enabling direct aid to sectors. With regard to social issues, you know that the basic card has expanded, which is still in force. They expand -- they're all expandable credits -- at Risga,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u151	...the social inclusion aids and, of course, with absolute maintenance guarantee. And finally, with regard to the fifth point, I want to remember once again that the lowest cost of the beaches are that of Spain. Well, ultimately, I think you're saying that we're looking for guilty when your only argument, despite the fact that reality I've just exposed to inflation, and here the only culprit is the Government of the Union. We will continue to do everything possible, bearing in mind that the municipal, local, autonomous scale, in the field of this problem of inflation, certainly corresponds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u153	...to a higher area that is the state and, fundamentally, the European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u154	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Puy, guilty of inflation, no, deliver me God! Although I am not an economist, I do not have the training of other Members and Members of this House to do the way the People's Party did which blamed another government for an international financial crisis. You guys are guilty of not taking action, and that's where we put the accent from the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] And following in the end, do you know what happens to you with the amendment of the non-legislative proposals tomorrow? Of course, the Galego Nationalist Block, which respects the climate and the framework of what we have given ourselves in this Parliament, has taken its initiative, that of the People's Party, originally, taking note of those points that you pointed out. There was no specific point on IRPF. That's why we didn't put our alternative on the IRPF. But since the Modus operandi of the People's Party is to be self-amended with 9 charillas, don't worry, that in the next debate we have about this, which I suppose will have to be enough in the next few months, we will do what will be amended with the 30-page document Mrs. Pontón has sent to Mr. Feijóo, so that in each debate you will have the full proposal if they are so concerned. [[Applause]] And look, on the subject of the consequence of inflation and what is happening, of course, all organisms agree that it has surprised the intensity and persistence of this phenomenon, etc. They also say that the Spanish economy is less permeable than others. So if in that context is the Greek economy that is suffering this most shot, we'll have to see what things have been done wrong for it to be so, and what things we're going to do at the structural level to stop being so permeable and volatile to this situation. But, in any case, I disagree, we disagree from the BNG basically, from the frame or from the comparison with which the consequences are like the lottery and depends a little bit, because, at all. The consequences of this crisis are seen from the point of view of the power of the territories and from the point of view of the social class absolutely. Look, let me give you an example: we are more than economic theory that shows us recent history, and that inflation always ends up being the tax of the poor and the poor. And I'll give you an example. A few days ago I filled out my car warehouse: 93 euros. It wasn't a nice experience but, fortunately, I have a more than dignified salary and that's not going to imply that I can't pay the bill of light or that I can't pay my rent. But I couldn't stop thinking about when I was charging, working in the Ourense polygon, less than the minimum interprofessional salary and had to fill a deposit and half a month to go to a polygon that is 16 kilometers away and to what there was neither yesterday nor today public transport worthy of such a name. And if I were in that situation as there are thousands of Greeks and Greeks, to whom we have to give a solution from this Parliament, I'd be thinking if I hadn't paid the rent or if I didn't pay the bill of light. So nothing in lottery, it's a class issue and it's a question that this crisis is not going to allow the rich the richest and the poorest people to leave. [[Applause]] And that is why we bring concrete proposals in this area, because we also know that this issue will go for the long term and in the short term we will have inflation over 10 points in Galicia. And the international bodies themselves, which have already failed enough to define what might be the picture at this time of year, what they're telling us is that it's not going to stabilize at 2% to 2024 or so. The German employer himself said last week we won't get out of this crisis before 2024 or 2025. So, what we can't tell the Greeks and the Greeks that they need the most is that they have to be completely drowned in the next two years, but we have to make politics to act in this area. And, of course, in the face of an inflationary situation, the strong tool is monetary policy, in which we have no competence, but, of course, there are powers elsewhere in which the prosecutor can act, in particular. That's what we propose today with this battery that we bring from BNG. Act in four or five areas where the Union would have direct capacity. One is taxation, because you, above all, in this last budget law, have passed one more step in your permanent fiscal and return reform. So, who needs the most is saving a euro a month and who needs the least is saving 500 euros a month. So we have to go back to this question. We insist on direct aid to the most needy sectors because survival is being played in the short term, and we also insist on social protection. Of course, it's good that the basic card is expanding. They still voted against extending it until the end of the year. We hope that they will be rectified and welcome. But there are more elements to which they can act. They can increase social benefits, increase accounts for a person who's taking the risk or who's getting periodic assistance from victims of violence who have, of course, increased that aid to at least a similar level that has increased the cost of living. And that's what you're not doing in your advertising board and vetoing this initiative. And the same with regard to non-contributory pensions, because, of course, the 100 euro supplement would depend directly on the Greek Government. It seems great to us that if the State is asked to increase the number of pensions, we too do so in our day-to-day and in the area of Congress of Members and Members, but of course this particular matter depends on you. They have budget and what they don't have is political will. That's why we say they're dedicated to looking for culprits instead of exercising that self-government so pompous that they like to do ceremonies and recitals at the 40th anniversary festival, but not to practice it every day to solve people's lives. [[Applause]] I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u156	About the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u157	...yes, I appreciate the will of the socialist spokesman — who does not give me time to beat up some of the issues he put on the table — in any case, with regard to the amendment, the point concerning direct aid we accept. The point of the motorways is that there is a specific debate on this issue tomorrow, which is more practical than the debate already takes place on that initiative. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u158	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After the debate on the motions, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Motions vote We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, initiative by Ms Maria do Carmele González Iglesias, on the promotion of component factories for automotive. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Don Maria do Carme González Iglesias, on the promotion of factories of components for automotive. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u159	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Donna Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council regarding the sector of residences of older people. It is accepted as adding the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, and Mrs Olalla is going to ask for a separation — i.e., of course — of course. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, give a voice to Mrs. Rodil's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u160	Yes, I wanted to request the separate vote of point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u161	Do you accept him? Yes. So we vote, first of all, point 4 of the motion. We vote. Vote of point 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Donna Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council regarding the sector of residences of older people. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 13; against, 60. The result of the vote is negative. This point 4 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u162	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, less than point 4, already voted on by Ms Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council in respect of the elderly residential sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points are also rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u163	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Noa Presas' initiative. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the increase in prices and its impact on the economy and homes He accepts the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group but only at one point. I don't know what the point is. Point? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] First part, point number one? Do you accept... point 2? Well, then accept point number two. Is that so? Let's see, don't be the devil. Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Presas's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u164	The first part of the amendment that refers to direct aids, which is point 2 of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u165	Point 2 of the motion. Okay, then, take that point. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u166	The motions were put to the end here. We continue with the agenda, point-quarter already, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialist, initiative by Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by Junta de Galicia with regard to the development of a plan of aid for small trade in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u167	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Leticia Gallego Sanromán, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Additional amendment A new paragraph should be added to the resolution of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following contents: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to draw up an extraordinary direct aid plan for small trade, in order to compensate for the rise in the price of energy and the lack of subjects that this sector had had because of the economic crisis resulting from the Ukrainian War."]] [[(G. P. People's People of Galicia, through its spokes spokesman, and at the initiative of Ms Cristina Sanz Arias, in the light of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the House's Rules of Procedure, the following amendment is tabled before this Bureau:Replacement amendment must be replaced by its spokesman, and at the initiative of Mrs Cristina Sanz Arias, in the light of Rule 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the House's Rules of Procedure, the following amendment to this motion for a motion for a replacement amendment must be replaced by the text of the resolution by the following text: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Galician Parliament urges the Council to address the Government of Spain to:1. - To adopt, before this Bureau, the next General P. P. People's People's People's People's Parliament (G. G. G. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. People People People People' spoke of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia from Galicia from Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia from Galicia from Galicia from Galicia from Galicia from Galicia from Galicia, and at the spoke ( and at the spoke ( and at the spoke ( by its spokesman, and at the spoke, and at the words, and at the words, and at the words, and at the words of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia of Galicia, at the words of Galicia, and at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, and at the words of Galicia, and at the words of Galicia, at the words of Galicia of Galicia, at the words of Galicia of Galicia, at the words of Galicia, at the words of Galicia, at the words of Galicia, and at Mrs Cristina, and at the words of Galicia, at the words of Galicia, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words, and at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at the words of Galicia, at the words, at the words, at Mrs Cristina, at Mrs Cristina, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words, at the words and at the]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u168	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Small trade disappears, this is the crusader reality. It's been running out of time, closing up business in the cities, in the neighborhoods, but its extinction is getting faster and more fulminant in the small and medium-sized municipalities. The sector has been in serious difficulties for many years, under the competences of the big chains, the giants of electronic commerce, there is no generational relief, the great problem of the depopulation of our land, which accelerates the closure of small businesses in rural areas, the crisis caused by the coward 19 and now the economic crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. The closure of small trade is an extended trend that leaves streets with many closed sites. But in the most impoverished rural areas, the consequences are very serious. The number of empty commercial sites in Galicia the January date of 2022 is 6,800, according to the Galaga Federation of Real Estate Companies. The analysis by provinces and municipalities shows that more than a third of the lows available in rent, specifically 2,500, are located in small and medium municipalities. This sector has already experienced the very negative consequences of the coward-19. Once again, the average loss achieved is between 30% and 40% in this sector, and as regards employment, the decrease in sales logically shows a drop in employment of up to 2.6% in Galicia. In the year 2021 they closed 672 small shops, it's the sector where more businesses closed after the hostel. The situation is becoming unsustainable for small trade from an economic point of view, affecting the survival of a sector of strong implementation in rural Galicia. A sector made up of small businesses with few profit margins and which depend on the capacity of citizen consumption. This crisis in small trade directly affects the great problem of the depopulation of our land, which accelerates the closure of small businesses in rural areas. If we don't have services in rural areas, we don't have trade, we don't have jobs, we won't have population, that's simple and worrying. Our parliamentary group has been demanding, in which we have been legislating, powerful aids for trade and not mere patches. The Galician Union has to develop policies for the small and medium-sized trade sector so that they can get out of the crisis in which they have been suffering for years and have worsened by the crisis of cowardice-19 and now by the crisis of the war in Ukraine. And this keeps many, many small businesses on their way. The trade sector is in the ICU, I repeat, I have said it on several occasions, both here in the Chamber and in committee, I say it again and I will not tire of repeating it, the trade sector is in the ICU. The Autonomic Government devotes little economic resources to small trade in rural areas, taking into account the urgent needs of this sector, with the harm that is happening in this sector, and what does the German Government do? What's he doing? For the 2022 budget, the start of trade in five million, compared to the year 2021, will fall to 1317 million euros of budget that the Galician Union has for this year 2022 and has not increased its trade in the year 2022. This is a great demonstration of what business matters to the Galician Union, nothing matters. How can it be that in €13,117 million of board budgets don't increase anything from trading, but low 5 million? Last year we complained that only 7 million went up, and it turns out this year isn't that little increase, it's going down. Well, this is what trade matters to Galician Union. The Greek Government has to draw up a plan of aid for small rural trade with sufficient budgetary shares for its rescue, and it has to campaign for neighbouring trade in rural trade. And now, the war in Ukraine, which is generating an increase in energy prices, which is triggering the costs that households and businesses have to pay, as well as the rise in raw materials and food exports to Russia and Ukraine. By affecting all these circumstances to the whole business fabric, and specifically to small trade, which is what we are talking about today in this non-law proposal. The self-government must immediately put in place a plan of action against the economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. Self-government cannot respond to the greatest economic crisis out of time. We have presented an urgent plan of economic and social measures for Galicia, to alleviate the crisis resulting from the Ukrainian war, because we think we must add force to this great economic and humanitarian crisis. It is necessary to act vigorously and firmly and to do so if we want to save our economy, our society, if we want to save our trade, but also the self-employed, fisheries, agriculture, livestock and many other sectors. The Greek Government must take action now, in the face of this great situation that is living many sectors of our land. Measures already taken and concrete. The decline in sales and invoicing in the trade sector has been more serious since the war in Ukraine began. The Galician Trade Federation ensures that the war is destroying everything. The war has led to lower purchasing power on the part of consumers, which is also reflected in small trade, and small trade has to deal with rising energy prices and lack of raw materials as a result of the war in Ukraine. For all this, our group has asked the Galician Board to draw up an extraordinary direct aid plan for small trade in order to compensate for the rise in energy prices and the lack of materials that this sector has due to the economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. The Greek Government and its President lack action in the face of this economic crisis, they lack commitment and measures for economic reactivation. The Greek Government must urgently help the Greeks and the Greeks to deal with this crisis caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This requires measures, measures with sufficient budget to prepare the return of economic activity to normality. Otherwise nothing can prevent the massive closure of small and medium-sized trade, but also the closure of many, many companies, and this will lead to the enormous loss of jobs, as well as the serious consequences it would have for the economy at all levels. They react now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they react already, they are in danger of many, many jobs on our land. The aid to minimize the impact of the covid-19 was totally insufficient, even small in the Greek trade, and they arrived late, too late. Let's hope that now with this new economic crisis as a result of the war, the German Government will make more available to trade and autonomous aid, with more budgets, even if they are already late, but take urgent action already. I am finishing by asking for unity, the unity of all parliamentary groups to get out of this economic and humanitarian crisis, because the one who prejudices voting against this initiative is to the Greeks and the Greeks, they do not harm my party, the Socialist Party or much less to this Member. That's why I call for unity, unity so as not to harm the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Pause.) [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Sanz Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. As in other times when we are debating initiatives that affect the proximity trade, I want my first words today to be to re-emphasize the exemplary behavior of these professionals at this difficult time that we are living. I mean, as it can't be otherwise, the role of our merchants played during the pandemic, ensuring at those difficult times that all citizens had access to food and products of first need. But I also refer to the role they play today, when they again suffer the impact of an unprecedented crisis, where keeping an open company is becoming a heroity. All of them, from this House, we want to say thank you. [[Applause]] Having said this and entering into the content of the initiative, I must point out that this is an excessively generic proposal that simply calls for a plan of aid and a campaign for rural trade, but without giving more details on the type of actions proposed. To say it is with all due respect for the work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I must point out that this attitude is very surprising. We are surprised by their inconcretion, but above all we are surprised that it is especially the Socialist Parliamentary Group who proposed it, when less than 15 days ago, in the whole past, did not vote in favour of a proposal which the People's Group has put forward with concrete measures to support our own. Mrs. Gallego, do you know how many of those Galician merchants are autonomous? For nothing but 71% of Galicia's trade is the possession of a natural person, that is, of an autonomous person. It is not to be defended that you are asking for measures to support traders, when less than two weeks ago they did not wish to vote in favour of a package of measures that would benefit seven out of every ten businesses in Galicia. It's a political hypocrisy exercise! Probably with this initiative you're trying to wash your conscience, correcting your way of not supporting the autonomous Greeks on that occasion or also for the time that always takes the Government of Pedro Sánchez to react to the real problems of families and businesses. Slowness that we could check, for example, on the approval of rescue plans. While the Galician Union was able to approve and design a rescue plan as early as November 2020, with excellent and contrasting results, the Central Government did not do its own until mid-2021, several months later, imposing such demanding and inflexible requirements that left many of our trades and many of our autonomouss out of the possibility of requesting it. Or the slowness of the Moncloa officials once again in adopting measures to curb the price of energy, which has been in a vertiginous spiral for months, especially by drowning small businesses and our businesses. And what about inflation? You speak on your own initiative, and I share, that the trade sector depends on the capacity of citizens to consume. It's obvious, because with inflation in March 9.8%, unstoppable, visa-free, data that we haven't had for almost 40 years, the question is very simple: how do you think the consumption capacity of the citizenry will remain, with wages and savings that every passing day will lose value? We agree with you that the sector is going through a very complex situation, but not only in Galicia, but throughout Spain. With regard to the number of shops you've closed, which you're referring to, in Spain your blindfold dropped last year a total of 8,199 small shops. So we are faced with a national problem, with a sector that is suffering from the consequences of unearned inflation, high fiscal pressure, rising labour costs and a cost of energy that I am unable to pay and with a government, presided over by socialist Pedro Sánchez, unable to alleviate this reality. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's not the same thing they govern some who govern others. Both from the People's Parliament Group and from the German Government do we consider the proximity trade sector a strategic sector of our economy and we develop important support programmes, always in agreement with the sector. It's time, ladies and gentlemen, to understand that it's very difficult to achieve solutions without talking to the most affected sectors first. For in that line of consensus with which the Council of Galicia is acting last February, it met with the Galician Trade Federation, which you mentioned, in order to design new support measures tailored to the real needs of neighbouring trade. Measures that are intended, firstly, to ensure business viability, with a clear bet on combining digitisation with physical sales, market diversification and products, and in order to provide personalized attention and quality service of our trade. Take note of yourself. Over the course of this year, the Galician Union will publish a number of calls in which rural trade, precisely in this way, because it is rural, will benefit from positive discrimination by obtaining a higher score in programmes such as support for digital transformation and the modernization of trade, and in aid for market space within the Rural 4.0 programme or in aid for eco-innovation within the sustainable trade programme. But in addition, this is not just a job that is confined to the Directorate-General for Trade, because, as we have said before, trade is a priority sector that is based on a cross-sectional approach through numerous programmes. Thus, Junta also supports our trade since the Employment and Equality Council, intensifying support when the job that generates the project is in rural areas, or including the sector in the recently announced – last week – plan to support specially paralysed pemes. Trade is also supported by Igape, since it is a sector that can access the different lines of financing for investment, liquidity or property, and it is also a supporting sector within the Galicia Rural Programme, which aims to implement new economic activities in the Italian countryside. Or trade is also supported from the Inega, with measures such as recently announced by the President of the Galician Union within the shock plan, the Peme Energy Bonus, with the aim of reducing energy consumption, with 80% support for the cost of exchange of appliances and equipment. Finally, Mrs Gallego, trade is a priority sector in most of the stimulus measures of the Union, and also with special incentives when they are located in our rural area, which is the soul of Galicia. And let me tell you this, because it's not the first time we've heard it: you come back with the perverse argument that the budget for the trade sector is reduced by this year 2022. You said it in committee, you repeated it in full, and today you have repeated it again. I have to explain to you again that you are missing the truth, because the merchants deserve to know the reality of support given to the Union and not a twisted or manipulated truth. Mrs Gallego, check your figures well and do your bills well, because the budget managed from the Directorate-General for Trade and Consumption for this year exceeds EUR 25 million, all of them — although they care about — own resources from the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And, in fact, the specific resources for commercial dynamisation grow, they're going to increase for the current year by more than 20%. Finally, I would like not to end this debate without mentioning the funds of the European recovery plan for the trade sector, because the three calls which were issued in September are now being resolved. Let us remember that these are funds which the Central Government, that is, you, decided unilaterally to manage directly, even though it is a matter of exclusive competition from the Autonomous Community, such as trade. Well, out of the three calls Galicia received an amount close to the 4.2 million euros for only 9 of the 46 projects presented; that is, more than 80% of the Greek applications are left. Of the projects approved in most of them — they are made curious — they correspond to corporations governed by the Socialist Party: the Vigo Town Hall, with two approved projects — congratulations! —; the Arousa Town Hall, the Boiro Town Hall, or the Pontevedra Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, the approved projects account for 4.05 per cent of the total national budget, when the weight of our trade in the whole of Spain is 6.8 per cent. That is to say, we have stopped receiving nearly half of the funds for Galicia that would be ours and most of the approved projects are concentrated in one province. That's your way of acting, with you Galicia always loses. Once again — these are too many — they do not agree with the statements made last week at Parliamentary headquarters by Mr Sánchez, when he said about the European funds he refused that the Executive was imposing criteria for distribution. And he argued that the transfer of resources to self-government was taking precedence. That is not the reality in the trade sector, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and the data I have just given are sufficiently explicit and significant. Precisely, each of these points is subject to the amendment that the People's Group has tabled and that we hope they have the courage to accept. I'm done. All administrations, the German Government, society as a whole have a debt of gratitude to traders, to self-employed people and to essential service workers. With these professionals who daily lift up their blinds and open the doors of their establishment. As far as the Union and the People's Party are concerned, we will continue to be, as we have so far been, aware of the difficulties facing a strategic sector in Galicia. And as for you, I will no longer ask you to have the same degree of commitment to the Galician Union, to trade and to the Greek rural trade. But at least they don't keep unjustly depriving Galicia of the resources that correspond to the European Recovery Plan, the Next Generation funds. And they stop applying socialist policies that translate themselves — no one can deny it — in the greatest impoverishment ever suffered in recent history and that they suffer from families, and that they suffer from businesses, and that they suffer from self-employed people, and that they suffer from the trades of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't afford a government with 22 ministers if it doesn't even serve to listen to the demands of society and to respond to their needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u172	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sanz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Aira Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Trade in rural areas suffers from two routes, one from trade and the other, of course, from rural areas. She gave Mrs. Gallego a series of data that I, in my innocence, thought they were indisputable; but Mrs. Sanz told us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u175	Mrs. Aira, I'm sorry, you can remove the mask because if you don't... you can remove the mask, if you like, in case you haven't noticed. [[Mrs. Aira Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u176	Okay, okay. I'm sorry. The spokesperson for the People's Party about a national problem. It's perfect for the Welsh PP to go on doing nothing. He mentioned the population's spending capacity, which is now empirical and before he was poor; and there are no two quarters of difference, about. The General Trade Directorate is not solely responsible for the Employment and Equality Council, the Igape, the Inega... it has forgotten about the GDRs and rural development plans, because trade is in rural areas. And you'll have to do a support manual for these merchants and you can find out how many benefits you can enjoy if you're going to order them. In any case, what I can tell you is that, fortunately, the PSOE is to outsource blames there in Madrid and that here the losses of trade in the years of government of the PP, in the last 12 years, are almost 7,000 trades; and the loss is directly proportional to the loss of the budget, which in the last 12 years has been 17 million euros to the Directorate General of Commerce, which is not the one that deals with trade in the Greek State. Well, from that point on, what the data means is that the needs of rural people have not been met for years, those of trade that is not in them either. Obviously, for this attention to be effective, more and more investments are required and not less. We could find the rise in recent crises for the difficulties of trade in rural areas, but in the BNG we understand that this comes from far beyond and is inserted into the loss of basic services outside urban areas. Public basic services are fundamental to maintaining population, but private services are no less. The solution does not seem to concentrate services on comarca headers because, as you know very well, there are no collective means of transport that allow people — and many of them larger — to travel outside the places where they live. We see, therefore, that it's easy to enter the vicious circle that we're living: there's no population because there's no services, there's no trade because there's less and less population. And what it seems is that the Government of the People's Party is not willing to intervene to break this circle. The current European standards and theoretical policies advocate the importance of the circular economy and the proximity trade in order to reduce the carbon footprint and achieve a better quality of life by improving the quality of food, for example, what I have just said. And, on the contrary, this is not being done and we see how the closure of business in rural is relentless, precisely because many are small businesses that support a family; and therefore, without help they don't go out ahead, and without them the socio-economic fabric and the life itself of small towns and localities. The updating of the Welsh commercial fabric, to make it more competitive, with training and counselling programs for all the country's trades, as well as betting for the digitization of trade with ambitious digital training programs and reaching out to all those working in the sector, is pending and in rural areas most. We'll see the final result and where it comes from and where rural digitization doesn't come from by the time it's over. Even so, there's still a bet on the generational remittance that needs this rural environment. CAP money is not enough for new incorporations or the system that follows the advice. In the field, a serious bet is needed so that girls and young people will continue in many cases with family activity when their older ones retire. And we need the implementation of strong measures that bet on other activities as well. In the case of local trade, the average age of the people who resent it is over 55 years, so in the coming years we will see how the activity continues to be lost due to lack of relief. We understand from the BNG that local trade plays a key role in the dynamization of small towns and places, it's important for employment generation and for the Greek economy. And campaigns are needed to put this into focus while some kind of control is exercised in the implementation of the large surfaces, because Galicia has the square area per inhabitant than the Spanish State; and, as much as they create jobs, the only thing they do is concentrate and change places because the account of this closes a number of small businesses. He has the Government of the Union pending to bring the Greek trade from the 20th century to the 21st century. The rural one must travel a little bit more to be able to compete with the large surfaces; and, what's even worse, with the large digital platforms. And we can't do this alone, they need an active intervention from the Galician Union in order to be able to compete in the best possible conditions to live, than not survive. BNG has led the Commission to create and launch a large online Galician platform for trade, with budget for the training of traders and advertising, which ensures that it is known and can compete with other platforms that already exist. Miraculously — and as it could not be less — the PP voted against this initiative. You're leaving the German trade in general, and the one in the countryside, too. When in the terrible and disbanded bipartite, initiatives were launched that supported the taverns with overseas, for example, in the villages, if I do not remember badly, under the name of the Galician Rural Trade, the same title that maintains on the page to Junta and which prays the following: "with a central objective of curbing the trend of closing commercial establishments in rural areas and maintaining services to the resident and tourist population," I say, much should not work because while this is put there they are reducing budgets and trades. I have to tell you, too, before I finish, about the Sound of Lugo platform, created by the Middle Rural Area of the Deputy of Lugo, where we co-governed with the PSOE — as you may already know —. A model of success that is gaining more and more participation in establishments and that counts with a good service and an axial logistics platform that brings a trade, a Navia producer, The Fosgrada — or anywhere else — from Lugo to people who want to buy their products, which are of quality and proximity to the entire territory of Greece, and has served to create jobs. They started with 14 highly diversified agri-food producers, and now they're going through the 45s, which indicates the clear success of this bet. With which well it deserves the support of the Galician Union through the GDRs and that it should extend this model wherever possible; and therefore believes that German Amazon that, as I said, is proposing the BNG. It's the administrations that have to take the initiative, and there has to be a design and coordination. It cannot be that opportunities are lost by investing in a thousand atomized platforms in logistics capacity, which increase transport costs. And some of them even giving them money to Madrid's establishments, as is the case with the friend of Mr. Middle Rural Counsellor, Mr. Mayor of Friol. [[Applause]] Having no services as simple as being able to choose the place to live, being able to move normally from one point to another in the territory, being able to meet your basic needs where everyone is; and one that can be a fundamental right, which is to live with personal autonomy as long as possible. That's why I tell the People's Party bench, in the absence of the branch councils, that the rural bet, and in this case for their trade, must already be done. And to create 100 smart villages over so many other model villages when we have 30,000 population nuclei is not to bet on rural. It would be a lot more if you helped keep as many English Courts as there are in our people, and even promote fairs and markets that create wealth, provide services and are an attraction to tourism. And I say this is the risk of being left without the spells promised by the Middle Rural Counsellor this morning. [[Applause]] Nor do we have to say that we are going to vote in favour of this Socialist Party initiative, which may be more concrete but if we want to be well understood. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u178	Thank you, President. One fact, Mrs Sanz: Spain is one of the countries with less fiscal pressure. Annotate. And, look, it's good to say that the Government of Pedro Sánchez does nothing in Galicia, which you don't invest in Galicia. The Government of Pedro Sánchez in 2021 had an investment in Galicia that turned the 5,000 million euros, and a very significant part in direct transfers to Galician board for education, health, housing, social services and employment policies. It's good to say, over and over again, that the Government of Pedro Sanchez doesn't invest in Galicia, it's a lie! [[Applause]] And as much as they repeat it over and over again it won't be true. It's just like that. And look, it has to be the Government of Pedro Sánchez—to see if you take note—which, also the first one, which last week's approval at the Council of Ministers, approved a plan of shock of response to the war. Where's the Galician board crash plan? Where is he? [[Murmurs.]] Where are the matches? Where are they? EUR 16,000 million for a plan to respond to the war in Ukraine. That's what measures are, not like you, that all they do are ads. The Greek Government must take action now, it must give an answer to the Greek society, given the extreme seriousness of the situation we are living in, above all that many sectors of our land are living because of this war of Ukraine and among them the small and medium-sized trade. That is why we have asked the Council of Galicia to draw up this plan of direct and extraordinary aid for small trade in order to compensate for the rise in energy prices and the lack of material that this sector has due to the economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. Taking measures, the Government of Greece is what it has to do, taking measures with budgets, with budgetary splits, not with announcements, and so, with budgeting, preparing the return of the economy to normality. The Galician Union must urgently help the Greeks and the Greeks to deal with this crisis caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In one of the biggest economic and humanitarian crises, the Government of Feijóo is obliging its competences and limiting itself to making mere announcements, and while the President of the Union is criticising the measures of the Government of Spain and being on a tourist route to the country in the last month. This, in the face of one of the greatest economic and humanitarian crises, with all the problems we have in Galicia, and Feijóo has been missing for a month. Well, let's hope he starts working at some point and takes real action. [[Murmurs.]] At the previous plenary meeting, he decided to attend the current President of the Union, to devote most of his intervention to placing duties on the Government of Spain. That's why we demand you to put in place your measures with budget shares and, in particular, measures to save small and medium-sized trade, which is in a very serious situation; which has worsened with the crisis of coward 19 still without recovery, and now is again struck by the economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijó's government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u179	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u180	...where are they? Where is Mr. Feijóo's government? Where are the measures of the German Government in the face of this crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine? Where are they? They get to work and stop confronting, which we have to add strength to this great economic and humanitarian crisis. And he threw it away, disappeared all the time. [[Murmurs.]] It's incredible, it's a real shame that today they haven't put in place budget measures for all the needed sectors of our land. But, as we all know, Feijóo is more concerned about Madrid than... because Madrid loves freedom, so he wants to live back in Madrid, he'll actually be gone. Let's hope that the new president of the board, let's hope that if he takes action...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u182	...and do not announce in the face of this economic crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u183	With regard to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u184	...of the war of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u185	With regard to the amendment. Please, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u186	We don't accept the amendment. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal on the law of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and fourteen other Members, on the extension by the Galician Union of the protocol of integral management of team demand (XIDE) to all primary care centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u188	If we lower the volume you probably hear better the initiative we're going to talk about next. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, if we lower the volume, they will better listen to the debate that will take place next, and if we have to talk, we have more room in this Parliament. This motion for a non-law tabled two amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal: Amendment to amend point 2 of the resolution of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following contents: "2o- Offer to the population, through the periodic publication of the data, information on the availability of professionals from all categories involved in primary care, broken down by area or health districts, and commit to the highest possible recruitment of the professionals required and available to optimize the functioning of primary care centres."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the provisions of the House's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Replace the text of the resolution with the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to change the current model failure of primary care by one based on multidisciplinary teams of professionals, in sufficient numbers and with labour stability, in order to meet the demands of the population in conditions. To achieve this objective, Parliament urges the following measures:(a) To achieve this objective, Parliament urges the following measures:(a) To achieve this objective, Parliament urges the following measures:(a) To increase in this legislation the budget budget allocated to primary care until 25%.b)To achieve this objective, Parliament urges the Committee to adopt the following measures: (a) To increase in this legislation the budget budget allocated to primary care until 25%.b)To achieve this objective by the maximum of 6 months a Human Resources Resource Management Management Plan to enable a knowledge of the real situation of the staff framework and to establish, the appropriate ratios to provide a dignified and stable staff, the appropriate ratios to provide dignified and stable employment, to end the precarious and vacant squares.c)To complete all the vacant squares.c)To finalize within six months a Pre pre-care Service Management Plan of Human Resources Management Plan of Human Resources Management within a six months, Parliamentary Action Plan of Resource Management requires the following the following measures:alogy of the following measures: (a.a.a) To achieve this objective, Parliament to achieve this objective:a to achieve this objective by Parliament the aim the aim the aim the following this objective, Parliament the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following action:::a:::::::::::a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a:a: increase in this legislation: increase increase in this legislation: increase in this objective:::: increase in this objective:::::::::::::: increase in this legislation in this objective of this objective::::::::::: increase in the budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget of this objective of the budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget of the budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget of primary the budget of primary by reaching the budget the budget the budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget of primary by]] To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u189	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. I'm going to try to speak on my initiative about the importance of what we bring here. And I want my first words to be a recognition to the fellows and fellows of the Welsh public health in all their fields. The People's Party, and with complete certainty also the Government that presides over Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who works and deals with the problems of the community, is aware of the situation that has suffered the care, the effort made by his professionals and the conditions of his work, marked in recent years by the impact of the pandemic. And what no one can deny -- and there are the data that bear witness to this -- is that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has made deeper progress in the development and improvement of its public health. Basic health services have been brought closer to all regions, to health centres, to improve all public hospitals in Greece and to provide them with new technology, more means and more resources to the health service. However, the main asset is their professionals, health professionals, we need them and we recognize them. And we promote initiatives such as the 2019-2021 Primary Care Plan, the document For primary health system vertebrate care, aware that primary care needs to move forward. And Galicia wants to lead that transformation. The strategic documents I cited, all that work done, are not aimed at collecting those advances, but at identifying the areas of improvement that exist today, so that primary care in Galicia does not fall behind and achieve evolution, it succeeds to be the vertebrate axis of the health system and to be positioned as a clear reference to the national and international context. And we do it with transparency, the result of listening, work, debate and validation carried out within the primary care group in Galicia. The result of a true diagnosis that has served so that for years now the Council of Galicia has promoted a commitment fund to move forward in that reform so necessary that primary care needs. This document For primary vertebrate care of the health system, which proposes a profound transformation of primary care, was assumed as a guide for the work carried out by the Technical Council for Primary Care and was born fruit of the outcome of the agreements allocated in March 2019 between the primary health-care scientific societies of Galicia, SEMERGEN, SEMG, AGAMFEC, the Galician Medical College Council and the Galego Health Service. This new primary care model does not require only greater human and material resources -- that too -- fundamental issues such as the introduction of organizational innovations that will allow for better optimization of care processes, a better organization that gives better attention to more and better organized patients, to facilitate the teamwork of health professionals and thus ensure more accessible and more resolute primary care. A fundamental and fundamental issue to be corrected was the improvement in access to health care centres and also professionals, as well as the establishment of improvements in demand management, the appointment process. And to address these issues the Health Council has already launched last year the CRM 100 system, which works to date successfully in 40 health centers, and which allows rapid management and resolution in many cases in advance of the calls of patients. The intention of the Galician Union is to extend it to all the centres that require it throughout this year 2022. In parallel to the start of CRM 100, piloting of an integral team demand management protocol, which is known as XIDE, has also been started. XIDE, which is an integral team demand management protocol, will allow you to optimize the management of appointments in health centres. And it is being done with the participation and involvement of all the professionals of these centers, who participate in an interdisciplinary manner and within their competence framework, to give a response in a time and form adapted to the demands or reason of consultation that the patient exposes. We're talking about a new tremendously interesting, interesting all over the world because it's going to allow fundamentally agitating user appointments and demands, which, as you'll imagine, is a very relevant healthcare benefit for the Greek public health. This system has already been tested, started in two primary centers, in Culleredo and in the Canary Islands Health Center, in the city of Lugo, and was designed with health professionals and applying an algorithm of 451 reasons for consultation to be used by the administrative staff and used by the administrative staff of the centers. It was verified that they corresponded to the actual demand and identified the most frequent ones. XIDE will be able to speed up the attention of all consultations, allowing direct referral to professionals more suited to each patient's demand, and prioritising the reasons that the system designed by health professionals identifies as immediate consultation or on the same day. This project has already been submitted to all the agents involved, from the representatives of the workers at the sectoral table to professional schools, scientific societies or the Technical Council for Primary Care, being well received by all of them, as they have publicly stated. However, public health has a pressing problem that in Galicia the opposition's political forces do not want to recognize, at least until now: the lack of staff. In order to address this problem, the Health Council has launched new measures in the field of its competences, such as the recruitment of health technicians or the creation of the new specialty of optional primary care specialist, and its exceptional provision through a contest of merits, with the aim of attracting residents who end their MIR in family specialty. And it was done, by the way, without the support of the opposition. However, as long as these measures do not materialize and as the Government of Spain continues to refuse to make the decisions that are in its hands to increase the number of family medicine specialists, all autonomic health systems have enormous difficulties in covering certain vacancies. Even though since the Moncloa has been listening deaf to Galicia's demands, all the public systems in Spain know that there are no professionals available. Not in number and it contained enough. A situation that the unions know, but that certain speeches, such as those of the opposition voices of this House, try to hide. And they're hiding away from reality, and they're trying to transfer the lack of impression that the casualties and absences in the health system are not covered by the will of the Union. And reality is quite different. The Union continues to work to correct this situation in the field of autonomous competences, and it also continues to press for Pedro Sánchez to react, although we already see that his is not to do it quickly, to correct in addition to the attitude he has against the public health of our country. Meanwhile, we want to give citizens all the information they need to know about that reality, to transparent what we so often say and that some people don't want to believe, that there are no doctors to hire, that's reality. I suppose the opposition will not be against transparency, and therefore, the second point of our initiative calls on the population, through the periodic publication of data, to provide information on the availability of family and pediatric medical professionals for primary care recruitment broken down by area or health district. Light and tachographs to end so much demagogy. Today, this parliamentary group, the majority, the PP Group, which I represent, is presenting this initiative because it seems important to us to have this debate, to count on the support of the House on these two fundamental points to continue to improve primary care. The second point is what I just read and the first one is the following: extending to all primary care centers in Galicia throughout the year 2022 the protocol of comprehensive management of team demand in which consultations are directed directly to the most appropriate professional to the need of the patient, thus ensuring their attention at specified times of response, depending on whether the need for consultation is immediate, either on the day or on the regular basis. We hope that opposition groups will support us in this initiative that we believe is essential for further progress in primary care. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u191	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. My friend, when does the Director General come to the Commission 5th of this Parliament, do you know where they are? We've talked about this. It's just that this is what you bring in the proposal is already announced. You bring here a proposal they announced a month ago. Let's imagine we'll bring her! You would vote against it, but it would be done by now. It's a surprising thing, because, look, you vote on this urgently on February 18th. On February 22, there were emergencies, right, Mr. Counsellor has already announced that this pilot plan will be extended, before it has any results. It's an automatic pilot plan, fabulous, I don't know why they implement a pilot plan if they know how it's going to go. It's like the PP Congress, we knew how it was going to end. But, days later, on 3 March, the director general responsible for the matter comes to the Commission and announces that the XIDE plan is very good and that it will then extend to 40 more centers and then to all of Galicia. It's the same as the 40 centers, it's the same thing as they're good or bad, they're going to extend it to all of Galicia. And a month later, you're coming to ask the House what we're all thinking of extending Galicia. Man, a little longer they were going to propose that it spread to all of Galicia when it was over! [[Applause]] But, in any case, we have already discussed this and, of course, I am obliged to give almost the same speech. Look, you say we're demagogues, incoherent, I'm going to try to keep the same speech as a month ago. It's a long time for me, but, according to your opinion, you might even be able to give someone else. But I'm going to try to keep the same thing, which is to define the same thing as we defined a month ago, when we were announced that this was already done. I'm saying that because it won't be the government saying anything else now. The system, XIDE, is basically a very good marketing, comprehensive demand-care management system. It's a screening system, let's see how we distribute the attention that citizens demand in the health center and optimize who we send it to. Fantastic!, as an idea, fantastic!, has very good marketing, has a name, this for a plan is fantastic, because we haven't seen the Powerpoint but it's possible that there's always a Powerpoint for a plan, always, fantastic, measurements not but a Powerpoint always hat. But it's true that it's a very good Markentig triage system, we agree. If we agree that we've been proposing primary care screening systems for about three years, what does the People's Party vote for? On the contrary. They started voting in favour now that the Government said it would, a little later, a month and a half ago, but by urgency. The question is, Mrs. Friend, about looking for a plan that solves the problem the Government has in order to distribute the demand. It's about looking for a plan that solves the problem, because what we can fall into is that this is a system that's going to do is tell people, when they ask for attention, whether they have to go to the health center or not, because for now they're going to limit themselves to that. And I explain why, I think your proposal says it easily. Because you talk about transparency and we agree, I hope we always agree with that, to see if we agree with transparency when reports call for opposition. This would be great by now. But you ask for transparency to know the data of doctors, doctors and nurses. And we asked ourselves: aren't there more professionals in primary care? There are many other professions in primary care; in fact, we argue that there has to be many more, and if the question of transparency shows what the system of each one is. If this system is meant to optimize what citizens are asking for when they seek primary care, and optimize to distribute it to professionals who need it, that is, so they don't always have to go through the doctor's consultation, curiously what we defended here in the morning, that you said we were demagogic, it took ten hours to change your mind. That's what always happens in health centers, all of which go through the medical system, this system allows to distribute. Good idea, but to distribute to other professionals we need something essential, to have other professionals, because if they don't distribute empty consultations. Because if the thing is to talk only about doctors, and that we're distributing among other doctors, what they are is when there's doctors we go and when we don't, no. Or, how is it going to be that we distribute to attention if the need is physical therapist if we don't hire physiotherapists? Or to logos if we don't hire logos? Because you're talking about a plan to distribute demand to optimize and that this citizenship demand goes to the right professional, but they just want to talk about doctors and nurses. Is your vision of primary care so limited? Now we understand what the problem is. You don't understand that primary care is much more than a doctor or a nurse, this has already happened, this was the 80s, this is no longer so, it's something else, or should, at least. So we defend that multidisciplinaryity, and that's where our amendment goes. Transparency, of course, all right. That's why we in the amendment do what we do is extend your proposal so well that we make it bigger, which is, because you think we know how many professionals there are available to hire in nursing and family medicine, well, we propose that we also know how many there are in physiotherapy, in speech therapy, in social workers, in PSX, that we all know, or do they have no right? Or doesn't the system need these professionals? We also know how many there are to hire. Of course, then if we know how many there are to hire, and there are many, and you don't hire them, we'd start to know that you don't hire because you don't want, and this doesn't appear, curiously, in this proposal. We're just talking about how many of those who are hard to get. But what about all the others? It's that primary care is full of professionals, different specialties, different categories, different jobs that don't appear here. We complement that amendment, which is why we believe it to be quite important. And besides, we're thinking about something that is absolutely revolutionary: if we want to redistribute so we can tell a person who asks for attention, primary care assistance, tell him what professional he has to go to, we hire professionals, because if we're not -- I remember what those primary care heads said in Vigo -- by managing poverty, and we defend that we have to manage capacity, and that's why the idea we think is right and we say it in the general director's appearance, we think it's a good idea if you run well, distribute attention among different professionals. Of course, you say light and tachographs. Well, now, light throughout the room, not only in what you want in the whole room, and tachographs, but that you write everything, that you write everything, that we know how we are the autonomous community of Spain that has the worst ratio of midwives, that we have an insulting ratio of physiotherapists, that we have an inability to have stability in the nursing, that we know all that. You want to talk only about doctors saying that it's Pedro Sanchez's fault. All right, don't worry, if that's clear enough. Sergas dirigeo Pedro Sánchez, we've made it clear, don't worry, he must be the health counsellor Pedro Sánchez, I think he's Mr. Comesaña, but in the end he'll be Pedro Sánchez too. But, if you want to talk about it, let's talk about the whole system, and so, if what you want to defend is to implement a system like this -- that, you're going to repeat it, it's already in place, it's been decided, a month ago that the Government has already announced this that you're here -- that it seems, if I didn't explain it well, if this goes ahead, that it's going on, what we have to do is, if we're going to redistribute demand, we have to go to where to send people, because if it doesn't end up telling people you can go to the health center or not, that this is what you want this system for, to tell people: no, we're very smart, we evaluate this, and you don't have to come, and finally stay in their wish, which is that health centers are left for some consultations and that people don't go because people think you're not ready to know how to use the health system. And we defend that no, that we have to hire professionals. So this isn't a way to shake a problem. And one last question that's of interest, what's the choice or what's it called? Who decides which professional to go? Because we have health centers full of health professionals, who's deciding now? The only category that's not healthy, the only category that's not healthy is what you're saying is the health care of the person you're consulting. We have doctors, we have nurses, we have physiotherapists, we have many health professionals, but you're making the redistribution system, full demand-care management, those who are not healthy decide it. As if they get me to distribute work in a car factory, I don't know! So we're gonna do it right, who can do it? We believe that we should direct health care providers to distribute the healthcare criterion, it does not seem so revolutionary, but it is that we do not ask for it, that is what medical schools are asking for, that they say that if we are going to distribute the demand that citizenship has, that health professionals do it, that they are the ones who know how to evaluate which specialty can be easier or more ideal — as we say in some way — that a citizen is being treated. And we argue that this is okay, that would be a good category, but in case we don't want to reduce it to one, that is health care, that's a good idea. So if we want to sue for this system we hire professionals to have where to redistribute, if we want to demand this system, that whoever distributes is professional health care. If we're going to want to redistribute this system, let's make it really efficient and let's incorporate what you've been denying all the time and that you haven't done until now. Because if not in the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u193	... to these botaphumous initiatives to tell how good the Government is doing but actually not making any progress, and we, if you have light and tachographs, are in favour, if you want to implement this system with professionals, are in favour. And if you think this system will improve, we're in favour. We're in favor of doing this completely, it's not worth doing because if we don't solve anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Pause.) [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u195	Thank you, President. The truth is, I don't know where to start, Mrs. People's Party. Of course, you started this initiative solemnly, making a recognition to professionals and I'm also going to make a solemn statement. We have not only given him professional recognition, but we have committed ourselves to insisting that this recognition be converted into decent rights and working conditions. Rights and decent working conditions. [[Applause]] It's all right, it's very good recognition, then stick. Now it's very fashionable to talk about the hybrid war, which is not only won in the battlefields, with the war force that each of the contenders had, but won by imposing the story, imposing on the citizen your version of what happens to be on your side. And, of course, there the People's Party is an advanced student; no, the next one, because machaconically insists, insists, and, of course, we don't have professionals and the opposition doesn't just understand that we don't have professionals. Yes, we know they don't have professionals, what the People's Party doesn't explain is why there's no professionals, what the People's Party doesn't explain is that government—government!—it means that it has to give solutions, that it has to govern, that it has to give alternatives; not to come here saying the problem, but to put the solutions on the table, Madam, to put solutions on the table! And why don't you explain why there are no professionals? Why don't you explain? Why don't you go to this Parliament's minutes since we were telling you how many professionals were going to retire? And you're voting against because you wanted to get to this point so you could say, "There's no professionals." Voting against! The logbooks are there. Voting against taking action! Voting against when we told them that generational relief is not guaranteed. Voting against not derogating from the application of the replenishment rate. Maintaining a policy of precariousness to professionals. Indecent! That's the People's Party practice. The problem we already know, but they have to give alternatives, they have to give a solution, Mrs. People's Party's Member. And the BNG is not against transparency. In fact, there are passed laws that speak of the transparency of the Union's government as a matter of course. What is going to happen to us is that they are trying to take us for fools, Members of Parliament and Members of the People's Party, who take us for their own sake. Because, look, the situation of primary care is dramatic, totally at the edge of the precipice; it is almost catatonic: professionals at the limit, population asking for measures and giving the alarm voice, demanding urgent solutions. And it turns out that, in front of that, the mountain stopped for a while. The People's Party comes here with an initiative that, in fact, if it wasn't really the story, laughs. An initiative, which in the face of all these problems, turns out to be asking for the extension of XIDE, the demand management system. And, of course, as if having someone deciding how to deal with it, when and within what time the problem of primary care is not -- I said more times -- that the population doesn't know what professionals want to go to and who should attend to it, the problem is that there are no professionals to be able to attend to them, that's the real problem. So we find ourselves with primary care facing very serious problems, and it turns out that the People's Party believes that with headlines the initiative just to seem to take care of the primary care that is going to solve the problem, when they're not dealing with the problems. And this demand management program that you've advertised, which was to ensure that all people who need attention have it in time and in form by the skilled, really, the goal is to regulate accessibility. That's what I said by the councillor himself and not denied by the CEO when he came in. The goal is to regulate accessibility and orient appointments, and to set waiting times, decide what is being met and what is not being met, what can be met and what can be expected. That's to establish waiting lists, a mechanism to establish waiting lists in primary care. That the fundamental element of primary care — I insist — is immediateness, speed, accessibility, not stumbling. And this device is just to put a stop to it, because to put a choice and establish how much you have to wait, whether it's urgent or not, it means you can't meet all the demand. And if you can't meet all the demand, it's because there's not enough professionals to be able to meet all the demand, so simply put yourself on your own. And it turns out this management system was programmed and they announced it was going to be in two stages. It turns out they did only one and only two health centers, the two urban centers: Culleredo and the city of Lugo. And it turns out they've already cleared the second phase. It turns out that in two urban areas, and we don't know how this system would work in rural areas — that there are a lot of health centers in our country in rural areas — why don't they do the second part? I mean, a theoretically objective system that you yourself say has to have two phases, they do one and they already decide to implement it across the country, when -- I insist -- it's not tested enough. And then the question is, is the system really to improve attention or is it to have a role to say what number of professionals is there? When what the population needs is to know that there are professionals, it needs to be guaranteed that there are enough professionals to receive that attention when they need it. And they're talking about transparency, and BNG has brought here on multiple occasions the subject of a square identification system to find out what the Sergas staff board is, how many professionals there are, what their conditions are, whether they're hired or not, whether they're fixed, and how many there are in each place, what it is... and they vote against. But then they come here to say that they come on the subject of transparency, because they don't. And what do they want with this initiative? Well, from the BNG point of view, it's a real coat of hair. What do you want? To reinforce your speech that it turns out that, as there are no doctors, you can't do it and that the blame is for others. And then, when you see the list, a person who needs health care and turns out they don't date him until within two or three weeks, you see the list and say, "Oh, no, it's just that, of course, there's no professionals; well, I'm going to die, there's no problem, because, like here, Sergas hangs there's no professionals because I'm going to fix myself. Is that what they're looking for? To reinforce that idea that there are no professionals and you don't have to do anything to solve the problem? Well, of course, they won't be confronted with the complicity of the Galician Nationalist Block, because what they need is -- I insist -- measures and personnel to meet the demand. And you want to put this demand management system in place when, first, you have in front of a lot of the staff, starting with the nursing staff, you see that they want to derive this choice from the nursing staff and what's going to generate two double consultations. First goes to the ward, it turns out that they have not enabled those protocols to see that they are competent and they can meet with full autonomy their function; and then they're going to have to derive it from another professional, from a doctor, and it turns out that we're wasting our time. So they didn't do the protocols before, which we're starting the house with -- as I told the director general -- not only by the roof but by the smoke of the chimney. We're selling smoke and then building here, so that really health care and primary care have no solution, absolutely none. And they're generating more delay with this system because there are no professionals to attend to it and this has already been warned by the professionals themselves, Madam. It was warned at the meetings of the Technical Council of Primary Care, to which the People's Party, the Union too, undertook to set up. I made it up, and now they're not paying attention to the work of those 200 professional people who worked to see what the problem was and what the alternatives were. And they warned him that before the XIDE was put in place, it was necessary to establish protocols to know which professionals could meet, in what conditions and what were their competences. And why don't they? That's why the BNG could stay here telling you some more things. We tabled an amendment to insist that there are alternatives and that there are things that can be put in place immediately to solve the problem that there is no professional. Do we have to train more? Okay. But to retain those who are trained. I repeat to you, 400 trained, who have completed the community family RIM in the last four years, only 200 in health centers. They take measures to get them to work in health centres, measures to hire other professionals. How many times do we have to tell you that we are in the 21st century and there are super-qualified professionals to work on these multidisciplinary teams? They introduce us, they enable service wallets, they change labour policy so that people don't get shot. Do I keep telling you things you can do? Increase the budget. They develop a human resources plan so we really know what the staff situation is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u197	If you want, I can keep telling you something else. So, of course, BNG won't accept that they're trying to take our hair. That in the face of the very serious problems of primary care, we are told that the solution is a demand management system, when there are no professionals, when they haven't done the protocols before. Or publish lists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u198	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u199	...how personal there is to hire, when what is not professional.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u201	They take this Parliament, the professionals, and the Greeks and the Greeks a little seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Amigo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u203	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again. What I wanted to tell you is that you agree that it is important for Galicia to have more health professionals. Mr. Torrado said that health centres were full of health professionals, we say that there are no health professionals. And the main obstacle to getting it I've told you before, I told you in the morning, has names and names: Pedro Sánchez Castejón and his representative in Galicia, Valentín González Formoso. Mr. Torrado, you once again missed a unique opportunity today, the opportunity to explain to the people of Greece why your party approves of things in this Parliament and arrives in Madrid and stops. He lost the opportunity to explain why the Socialist Party, with the complicity of the silence of the Greek leaders, is denying the extraordinary expansion of these 64 MIR squares calling upon him to join, the creation of the emergency medicine specialty and the removal of the limits of the replacement rate. And I don't know if you understand it, you're an expert in rhino, XIDE has been designed by health professionals with an algorithm of 451 consulting items. And you seem to want a professional — when we don't have professionals — to do it now. They're questions, and scientific societies and medical schools agreed. But, of course, you, instead of coming here to explain everything to the Greeks and what your Government of Madrid does not do, it doesn't because you can't explain it because there's no reason to justify this blockade. Your only interest, the only interest, is to deceive people, put themselves behind the signs at the doors of the hospitals, at the doors of the health centres — that this is very good for you and the BNG — to make the citizen believe that the lack of professionals is the fault of the Board, when you know it's a problem that affects all the communities in this country. [[Applause]] But, well, once again you preach to the interests of Pedro Sánchez, they're not socialists, they're Sanchists, that's the name. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u204	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u205	Well, and the BNG, Mrs. Prado, you give me a lot of money from the bipartite. Look, the Government of the People's Party covers 100% of the squares, at the time of the bipartite, it covered 70%. And most of the immigration of doctors was at the time of the bipartite, when many doctors were left here, 70% of the squares were covered and doctors emigrated. This is the truth. We have 104 doctors more in primary care than at the time of the bipartite; but, well, you continue with the theme. They lose their strength and forget to defend Galicia when it comes to putting their duties on their PSOE partners, who, of course, rule in many places. And let's not forget that the BNG vote was decisive to put Pedro Sánchez in the Government, that pact of Ana and Adriana in which nothing was said about health, because you don't say it here either. Anyway... Through this initiative we are calling for a positive initiative to support tools to improve the quality of care. And you will vote against it, as they are voting against all the initiatives they intend to try to get Galicia to face, within their competences, vacancies with the greatest difficulty of coverage. The People's Party isn't saying everything goes great. We've been conscious for years of the problems of primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u206	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u207	...and we're non-conformists. And that's why we believe Galicia must lead this transformation and improve the excitation processes, the demand management protocols, and the bureaucratic effort of our health professionals. This is a priority target for this government, thinking of the best for the Greeks. The introduction of organizational innovations will allow for better optimization of processes. And taking this step is as important as building, improving or expanding health centers. Or equip them with technologies, which is also important, Sergas is also doing it. We know we won't count on your vote. We think the situation is complex, we go through a very complex situation in primary, we need brave and creative solutions that break inertias and formulate different ways of doing things, and make them better. You'll know if the opposition wants to be part of the problem or much of the solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u209	We are going to put the text to the vote, to the BNG I invite you to make a proposal, because what brings us to its amendment we cannot accept, and the amendment brought by the Socialist Party we could accept: "Offer the population, through the periodic publication of the data, information on the availability of professionals from all categories involved in primary care broken down by area or health districts." Until then we could accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u211	How we vote tomorrow we can [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-04-DSPG076.u212	If you finally accept the transaction, I beg you to pass it. [[Applause]] And we'll suspend the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
