ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. I would also like to inform all the honourable Members that today is their first day of work for two new officers who come to be part of the services of this parliament, which are Noemí and Verónica, who will accompany us in the normal activity already within this parliament, but, as today is their first day, I would like to inform you all. Justification of inattentives we have several today. On the one hand, Maria González Albert and Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, who delegate the vote to her spokesperson, Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo; don Marta Novua Iglesias, who delegate to the spokesperson of the parliamentary group, Fr Pedro Puy; and Don Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, who delegate to the spokesman, Mr Luis Álvarez Martínez. And, no more, we're already on the agenda, now yes, with the first point, attendance. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the covid-19 pandemic and its impact on primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u2	To substance this appearance, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u3	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to appear at this plenary session, at the first that is held in this new session, to realize, as we have seen throughout the pandemic, what is the current situation in Galicia and, in particular, how this pandemic wave has affected health care, both hospital care and, in particular, primary care. First of all, I would like to point out that this omic variant, defined on November 24 in South Africa and that it had its first case demonstrated in Galicia on December 8, in this case sequenced at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, is significantly affecting the evolution of the pandemic throughout Spain and, of course, also in Galicia, mainly in the difficulties living in primary care, not in this case in extraordinary care, what we call the primary hospital emergency, the CAP, where the impact is being lower, but yes, as we all know, in ordinary primary care, where, in fact, above all the administrative burden is causing problems. In the last few weeks of the month of December, an explosive increase began in our community, just when we were down from a significant increase in the number of cases, motivated by the delta variant, because around 20 December these first cases that we saw in early December began to make this characteristic transmission of this variant, and we began to see that explosive increase in the cases of cowardice, which fortunately has slowed down in these last days, and that we expect that beginning of the descent of the contagion curve and which also marks the beginning of this cycle that reproduces itself — yes, as you know — in all waves with a further decrease in hospital income, then in the units of critics and, finally, in the deaths, we cannot afford to regret and accompany the families of all those who have lost a loved one over these two years. The explosive increase was a characteristic of the wave and it did not occur in this way until now, fruit of the characteristics of this new variant, which has shown basically greater transmissibility. This has conditioned the resources needed to address it, because in part, thanks to Galicia's being and still leading in vaccination, hospitalisation data are also smaller and therefore the follow-up of these positive cases falls primarily into primary care, as I will explain later. This wave if it had something in common with the previous one, which we saw in the summer, and which are those periods of the year in which professionals enjoy their deserved rest permits and, on the other hand, and except exceptions, always justified, try to retain those permits. And also, of course, coincided with an undesirable number of infections among health professionals as well. At the beginning of this intervention I would like to thank healthcare professionals in general and, in particular, primary care professionals for the effort they are making in recent weeks. These questions have certainly marked the last month and I'd like to analyze the data. At present in Galicia we have an accumulated incidence of 3,102, in the case of the cumulative incidence of fourteen days, which came to be at a peak of almost 3,400 —397 — and the cumulative incidence today is 1,338. As you know, one parameter for the evolution of the pandemic is when the incidence of seven is below half the 14th. This is the case we've been watching and trusting for a few days now. Right now we have 67,350 active cases and, in order to be able to have a reference of how fast they increased, they're three times more than there was exactly a month ago, on Christmas Day, when the positives went up to 24.252. Despite the high number of positives in our Community, we continue to have hospital pressure, we say that it contains. Today, there are 638 hospitalized patients, 588 on the floor and 50 on the ICU, numbers that may be used to them make us think they're normal, but they're certainly still a problem. Having such a number of incoming patients means having indoor circuits in hospitals, it means having indoor plants, it means supporting services in both microbiology and laboratory, for example, or radiodiagnosis working with this volume of incoming patients, which is certainly nothing to not evaluate. While in hospitals we have these 588 patients — 564 in yesterday's Ministry-level report — our percentage of hospital occupation is 6.68% and the Spanish average in this case is 15.76%. And in the case of ICU, those 45 patients that we entered yesterday are about 6% of ICU occupation. In this case, both hospitalization, along with Asturias and ICU, we are the only ones with the lowest level of hospital occupation. In the third wave, hospital income represented 9.5% on the plant and 1.5% on the ICU. In the summer wave, hospital income was 3.8% on the plant and 0.5% on the ICU. Today, hospital revenues represent 0.9% of the patients in the active cases and 0.1% in the case of critics. This drop in percentage of cases that result in hospitalizations or critical units shows that vaccination works and protects from suffering the disease more seriously. Also from here, a thank you to all the staff who are working on the vaccination campaign and, of course, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, who give their full support to getting both the first and the second at the moment and now the strength dose. [[Applause]] Precisely about Galicia vaccination is the head of the state, just as it has been throughout this year since the process was started. Galicia administered 100% of total doses, when the national average is 95.49%. In the population over 12 years of age at least one dose, Galicia has 95.2%, while the national average is 92.6%. In the 12-year-old with a full Galician pattern is 94.4%, when the national average is 90.7%. And I also stop here for a moment to highlight this high value of people over 12 years old with a full pattern, almost 95%, but also to point out that we still have more than 5% of Galicians and Greeks who are not vaccinated. We've been warning and valuing these days the high percentage of patients who are admitted to ICU corresponding to unvaccinated people. We've had hospitals where 100% of the patients in critics corresponded to non-vaccinated citizens, and continue to encourage those who haven't put the first or second dose to do so, and putting all our resources at their disposal with both quote and no quote; at any time, even at these reinforcement doses to, as I say, administer those doses, which are proving, so reflect the data, that important value not only in the infection, but also, especially in the degree of criticism, even in the deaths. In the case of children in the population between 5 and 11 with the first dose Galicia is also currently leading, with 80.9%, when the national average is 53%. It should be noted here that this data has been completed in the first three days since the doses were received, because of the model we adopted in Galicia to vaccinate in this case on the massive points for children and not to do it in health centers or schools. The goal set by the Conference of Presidents of 22 December was to exceed 70% of the population of this group, 5-11, with the first dose before 7 February 2022. In Galicia, as I said, this target was reached on January 15th. We are leaders in the third doses in over 70 years. Galicia shows 94.4% in this collective, when the national average is 91.1%. We are the second community in the third dose in group 60-69, with 94.6%, when the national average is 88.16%. The objective set after the Conference of Presidents for this paragraph, group 60-69, was that 80% of this population had that third dose before December 22. In Galicia that goal was met on December 13. In the third dose of the 50-59 group Galicia shows 92.29% and the national average is 66%, i.e. almost 30% more than the average in this case of the state. The goal set in this case was to exceed 80% for this group on January 24. Galicia met him a month earlier, on December 23. In the third dose of the 40-49 group Galicia now has 87.54%, when the national average is 41.16%, in this case the national percentage is doubled. It's the first autonomous community with a better percentage and we meet the 80% target set for March 7. This goal was met on January 17th, almost two months earlier. Figures support the management of vaccination in Galicia and our commitment to vaccination, as it said, in large enclosures, also for children and children, where it has been shown that organization and counting with a good structure has allowed Galicia to deal with the vaccination of this age group very widely, contrary to what is happening in other autonomous communities, where it was betted by vaccination spaces, among others, as it was said, primary care centers or schools. Since the General Directorate of Public Health, they have been conducting a study of the impact of administration of the third dose since the beginning of the process in our community on October 25th. In this report, we can see how both incidence and income rates, in addition to the times when their trends undergo a change, coincide with the impact of the third dose on a generalized increase in cases. So this shows that the bet that Galicia made at all times for administering all doses has reflected a result in the incidence of the pandemic; besides, as I said, doing it as quickly as possible. This data that I just collected is not yesterday or yesterday, but it's a trend — as I say — over the last few weeks. It is clear that having faced this wave without pre-displacement vaccination would have been very different, especially in the most vulnerable groups to the virus, of course, which are the older ones. We should therefore thank all the professionals involved and all the Greeks and the Greeks for their commitment, which allows Galicia to deal with vaccination, not only at Spanish level but also at European level, with the positive consequences on the incidence of the disease we have already described. The two components of this wave, the greatest transmissibility — hence exponential increase in cases — combined with the vaccination figures in Galicia, allowed many of the infections to suffer from mild symptoms and therefore made the care pressure more acute in primary care. Although in hospitals we reached the figure of 608 patients — 633 said today, 50 in ICU — I say that, although this data is far from the third wave figures, in which one year we ended up in 1,210 hospitalized patients and 254 patients in ICU, that is, five times less in ICU or almost half in the plant, and those numbers of infections are much higher, the peak of the third wave was 22,600 cases, compared to the more than 78,000 in this current wave. Of course, we have to thank the work done in hospitals, which have been serving patients for two years, and this wave has continued to mean a very important challenge for emergencies, ICUs, plants, and -- as I said before -- support services, which, of course, have been affected by both the patients who have entered and, of course, also by outpatients with this volume that we commented on by 78,000 at the most large moment of active cases in Galicia. With this, the follow-up of mild or asymptomatic patients fell into primary care at a time with similar circumstances in the summer — which he said before — by the corresponding preceptive breaks. This, as in the rest of the professions, which there were also contagions among professionals, has led to a situation of greater pressure at this level of care, since, as you all know, we do not have the possibility of making substitutions, especially with regard to doctors who specialize in family and community medicine. In this framework, I would like to point out that as the pandemic advanced in Galicia we were working to ensure that part of the overdemand that could be generated in health centres had come out of these, contrary to what — as I said before — was done in other autonomous communities, where health centres were used for many of these issues. So in Galicia we don't use health centers to do PCR or antigen tests in a majority. We were the first to set up the points in this mobile case, the caretakers, to perform the tests to patients who did not have to go to the health centers. Massive cranes of different components have also been made, but always also most of the time resorting to mobile points intended for municipalities or sports pavilions or fairs of samples located in them. Now we have 32 points enabled with Sergas personnel for testing antigens, including train stations and airports, issues that I like to note, because I think we are the only autonomous community that has similar devices, which enable the accessibility of tests both to the Greeks and to the Greeks who live here and to those who visit us both at Christmas and, for example, yesterday. Nor did vaccination take place in health centres or with their staff, beyond people who, after the end of their day, had made extraordinary days at the points of mass vaccination, as I said, except for the singularity of older groups, in particular, the greater than 80, that we started doing in health centers. I say that it has essentially resorted to massive points and not therefore to health centers, — I insist — also with great satisfaction for professionals as well as for the more than 2.3 million Greeks and Greeks that passed through them. From the very first moment we chose not to affect the resources of the health centres, and even though we recruited at the first moment 200 nurses specialized in vaccination, I would also like to remind you at this parliamentary headquarters that these 200 people were immediately replaced in their primary care posts. Once the vault certificate was launched, so Galicia betted from the beginning, it was also requested to issue these certificates in the pharmacy offices, through the É-Saúde platform and also through Sergas Mobile. In addition, access to E-Health has been activated for all citizens and also for associated cards, such as children's cards; so we avoid charging with the issuance of these certificates to the administrators who perform their duties in primary care services. We activate administrative points in large vaccination centers to perform tasks related to vaccination incidences and also to obtain vaccination certificates. I would also like to point out that we were the first to count on an application for the reading of certificates, which we made available to all the establishments across the Passcovid platform. Even so, we count from the beginning with the contact tracking center for the initial case survey on positives and also for the follow-up and termination of close contacts in collaboration with military trackers; again a step towards downloading as far as possible from that follow-up work to health centers. Through the conventions with the pharmacy offices they made available to the people of Galicia — especially the pediatrician — 150,000 tests recently with the start of Christmas vacations on December 18th, and also another 150,000 more than January 7th, with the return to schools. It has also been possible to perform saliva PCR for more than a year and to carry out antigen tests in front of pharmacists, in this case for their subsequent inclusion in the registry. Measures, as I say, all of them are aimed at downloading as far as possible from these administrative, bureaucratic tasks, but many of them also health care derived from the pandemic, especially in asymptomatic patients or with mild symptomatology. United to these, up to a total of sixteen, it was necessary to incorporate new measures in order to address overdemand in health centres. We launched the self-declaration of positive cases on Sergas's website. Even so, we reinforced the phone 881 540 045 to communicate the positive and all the issues related to the coward. In addition, mild or asymptomatic cases have been reduced to medical or nursing staff calls, only going to take place on the first and seventh day, thus reducing to some extent the pressure on professional schedules. Even so, since last Thursday, professionals can process, if they so wish, automatically the highs and lows originated by the vault. In addition, they have a list of patients incorporated into Janus in this case for the management of open temporary disability processes. With this, the phone of the coronavirus — 881 540 045 — processed in January more than 20,100 PCR tests for citizens with mild symptomatology without the need to request an appointment from their doctor. The mobile and fixed cast units detected 9,524 positives in the more than 138,000 tests performed at the cast points, and 131,000 PCRs were performed in the curvature. The Greek pharmacies detected 3,171 positive cases in the 122,445 tests performed in their offices. And the pharmacy offices have been printing, since they started using the certificate, more than a million certificates in their offices. I insist: all this activity carried out outside the health centres. In Galicia, organisational measures have been taken over the past few years. It's true that many are already giving their results. We have already talked about the instruction of TAO, which allows nurses to take on the follow-up of patients treated with anticoagulants, or issues such as the possibility of prescription for chronic patients by primary care pharmacists; measures designed to reorganize the activity of the centers taking into account the competences of each professional. We have implemented the quality schedules of the medical staff and in the coming weeks, the implementation of these quality schedules will begin for the nursing staff. This tool allows the professional to have suitable slots according to the time of the appointment; it is not the same as the time for querying a recipe as the time for home care. And also, gaps for coordination, training were incorporated, in addition to allowing the care program to chronic patients. We launched the process of developing local health plans, which seek, through the participation of all the agents involved, to provide the centers with greater autonomy within the framework of primary care reform, with the fundamental objective of reducing the saturation of the agendas, as well as allowing to transform unscheduled care into programmed, through improved demand management, and building on tools such as patient classification. Right now fourteen plans are about to be implemented. For this purpose, the Technical Council for Primary Care and the Follow-up Commission will be duly informed by primary and vertebrate care of the health system. And, in parallel, the plan object service will assign its respective health area the objectives of the plan to initiate the execution of the actions included in them. We have already approved medical, nursing, PSX and social work portfolios at the Technical Council for Primary Care. And this week, you'll be at the disposal of head of service and head of unit and nurse coordinators, a new primary care command box with broad indicators, allowing you to adjust the measures that are taken on a day-to-day basis according to the objectives of each service. With regard to the launch of the CRM 100 telephone platform, which allows the management of the calls that are received in health centres, we started the pilot in fifteen centers and is now already unfolded in forty, being very well received by both professionals and patients, not only because they can return the calls that cannot be answered at the moment — that they can all agree in a specific time frame. As I say, this tool allows you to have them all and go back as you can. He said that not only in order to be able to return them, but also in many cases it allows administrative staff to resolve this request without the need to return the call, thus arousing attention and avoiding in many cases that patients have to go to the centers. We also end the XIDE pilotage, a demand management system that is set as an objective in the two documents that mark the development of primary care actions and whose objective is that all professionals at this level, interdisciplinaryly, and within their competences, respond at a given time to a health or non-health consultation without having to go through the doctor's consultation, using the potential of all categories working in primary care. [[Applause]] Now it's time to show you the results of the XIDE program, of that pilotage, to the Technical Council for Primary Care, to the trade unions and also to the professional schools. But I can provide you with some data. During the initial phase, all the reasons for overdemand — we speak of overdemand — were identified in the two primary services that were used as pilot, in this case the Culleredo and the Canary Islands, in Lugo. 451 reasons for consultation have been identified, professionals have identified these reasons. In the first analysis we concluded that more than half of this overdemand could be incorporated into the scheduled agenda, that is, people who arrive in the day at the health center, analyzing the reasons for demand; professionals found that half of them could be programmed in another day without needing to be seen on that same day, and also that half of these reasons can be met by a professional other than a doctor. As a point of view of the first results, it is further confirmed that the greatest demand is generated precisely in those issues which, even though they are health acts, have a more bureaucratic character, which, on the other hand, we have been observing over the past few years. The results of this pilotage of targets mark us the way to continue with the reorganization and especially with measures to allow the approach of overdemand — I repeat, these consultations that come to an even greater level and have to be seen in the day — and, in the case of doctors, to continue moving towards limiting the most bureaucratic tasks, turning this whole process in addition to the eighth health area, a project that we want to be a support through the digital media for the entire health system. The next step in this field is the Pediatric XIDE piloting, which is already ready for its launch, pending assigning the centres where it will start. Finally, we want to move from a model where most of us respond to demand — or overdemand in this case — to a more proactive model, with more prevention, attention to chronic and dependent patients, and of course participating all the professionals who are part of primary care teams. On the other hand, we hear as if it were proposed, as a simple solution, more personal, more personal, but as we've been trying to move for months, this situation is all the less simple. The staff is what we have, there are no trained medical specialists — in this case, specialists, as I said, in family and community medicine — and there is also a shortage of nursing staff. I understand that, in the face of evidence, the deficit in primary professionals was finally recognized and that this deficit was not a problem exclusively in Greek. When the first step taken by the Government of Spain in the face of the problems of primary care throughout the state in this wave is to enable the recruitment of retired staff, it must be because it is not so simple to hire more staff in primary care; these retired professionals under 70 years of age who in Galicia have had a magnificent response and that we must all thank, 86 professionals who have shown a high commitment to public health and have demonstrated their support to all their colleagues. As you know, we've assigned support work to them primarily in the follow-up of the foster patients, as well as the processing of temporary disabilities; in fact, only in the last week have more than 6,000 been processed. They also made 3,000 recipes, 14,000 annotations in Ianus —38 average annotations per optional — and 10,000 accesses to different clinical stories — i.e., I repeat, last week —. We are therefore very grateful, because it highlights this volunteerness of the Greek staff with regard to other territories. In short, the Ministry of Health makes a decision on primary, the first in 2022, while in Galicia we have been addressing the need to reform primary care for years, and we are also looking for solutions to be able to have more staff resources. We launched in 2019 the continuity contract, a stable contract that you qualify as a precarious one. In these budgets, as we commit ourselves, it contains 86 new squares to consolidate the staff that exceeds the three years of bonding in Sergas. More personal. We prioritized the categories working in primary care in all OPE calls, calling between 2012 and 2018, 8,112 squares, exhausting the restorative rate that the state allows us to. More personal. In fact, at the end of February, we will publish the call for evidence to cover in a stable way more than a thousand nursing facilities by the ordinary procedure. I would like to point out that we have also requested the extension of 385 training courses in nursing schools last week, just to anticipate the shortage of this staff. In the primary care plan since 2019, 331 primary care squares have been created. I repeat: since 2019, 331 places have been created in primary care, including 80 other family doctors, 20 pediatricians and 20 midwives. More personal. And in this year 2022, once the staff planning is completed included in the plan, we incorporate in the budgets 81 nursing squares and 28 primary care pharmacists, to place in all areas the reinforcement of prescription, which are already available to be hired. More personal again. In fact, we're going to spend 100 million more euros on this budget for staff than in 2009. I repeat again: EUR 100 million more in human resources than in 2009. And in this 2022, 5.5 million euros more than in 2021 in human resources in primary care. As we have already said, but you don't want to listen, the primary program just goes down in the chapter of the works and in the corresponding to the Covid Fund; in relation to works, in this case for the creation of infection circuits. That's the only drop in this year's primary care budget. And I'm going down the fund because, as you know, there's only one in the autonomous communities, because the central government understands that it's not necessary. We have also begun negotiations at the sectoral table of the Primary Care Human Resources Reorder Plan, meeting the demand of this parliament, in which we will continue to address measures to act in the management of categories and jobs, in the conditions of extensions and other aspects of that area in primary care. Even so, we have incorporated into the Law of Measures two issues that we believe are fundamental in order to address the staff deficit. On the one hand, the creation of the new category of optional primary care specialist, which with the order introduced by the People's Group will be possible to barge through a merit contest. This will make this extraordinary summons more agile, allowing it also to contain a fixed square once the process has been completed. More personal again. It is a step forward that is being taken in Galicia, which, in the face of the shortage of professionals, promotes a pioneering and extraordinary measure throughout the country and which aims to be an immediate way of incorporating more resources into both the ordinary and the CAP. Because, as you know, these new squares have implied the realization of two guards, which enables more progress to be achieved in the integration of ordinary, in this case continued attention. In this way, the lack of professionals throughout the Community can be addressed, but especially in areas where staff deficits are most prevalent, as they are difficult to cover, in the face of the shortage, as we insist, of these specialists. On the other hand, the Law of Measures regulates the application of the functions of health technicians, which already existed and exists in health centres; in this case they are medical graduates in medicine. Last Monday 10 was published in the DOG the resolution opening the recruitment lists and yesterday the planned period was even completed, with a result of more than 150 applications from professionals registered on these lists. Its incorporation is expected to begin at the beginning of February, once they do the necessary training. They will perform support work, helping in addition to the management of overdemand and generated especially by the coward, so that family doctors can continue to focus on the attention of ordinary demand and on the follow-up of chronic patients. They will be assigned tasks such as the processing of casualties or the preparation of reports, the renewal of revenues for chronic patients or the follow-up of covid patients, among others. These functions coincide, as you've just seen, practically with those who are doing retirements, once the Government of the State has authorized us, after the meeting of December 22nd; therefore, the tasks for health technicians go on the same line. This goal, along with moving towards primary care that ceases to be conceived as a gateway to the system and becomes the central axis of the health system, is what our goals have set for us. And we will continue to take steps to improve the conditions of the professionals who provide services in primary care of the Galician Health Service. Galicia has done its part, we have even advanced or initiated measures included in the Primary and Community Care Plan, promoted by the Ministry of Health, which begins — by the way — four years later than has been published, and, in this case, in Greek, includes measures such as the empowerment of nursing specialists in family and community, which already counts with staff fixed for a year ago, and in which Galicia has been a pioneer; or the impulse of digital clinical history, which I am not going to tell you how Galicia is in that age; the introduction of incentives for difficult coverage already incorporated into Galicia since 2019 in the OP and in the recruitment lists, and since 2021 also envisaged for the calculation of professional career. And despite the fact that we already have part of the journey done, they are not the responsibility of this autonomous community such issues as that accreditation of the 64 squares requested last October, of which we still have no answer, only in the case of a 10 square health area, and that we refer to the ministry to extend the offer of the squares that will be convened next January 29th in the MIR exam and that we would have liked — and we have moved it to the ministry — that these 64 new MIR squares, 45% more than the 142 that we have now accredited, could — as we said — be part of the range of squares that could choose to elect the Welsh or non-Gleges that approved this exam on the next day 29. That couldn't have been. We will continue to hope that we will be confirmed by the accreditation of these requested squares and there is no longer any remedy left for that call next year. Or we also ask the ministry, not being our own competence, to comply with a request from the entire society, also from this parliament, of the creation of the emergency specialty, which would allow it not to happen last year — that we are trying to put measures to avoid this year — that more than half of the family residents trained in this community, as in virtually all autonomous communities, instead of going to primary care, choose to go to hospital emergency stations. This wave has highlighted the absence of specialists to hire, as it happened in the summer, and that's why we'll continue to work on the already advanced measures and some of them, as I said, are showing results. And I want to finish this first intervention by thanking again for the work done by the entire staff of the board, whether it's in hospital care, with these nothing despicable 638 patients who today are entering, with all that it means for the hospital structure, and of course also the work that all the primary care professionals are doing, the doctors of course, but also all the rest of the primary care teams, without forgetting again the work of the vaccination teams. And, of course, thank the Greeks and the Greeks, first, their understanding at this moment, in a wave that is virtually overflowing to the world, and that they have understood these difficulties to access on any occasion the part of the descent or confirmation. As I have just mentioned, we have taken steps to alleviate this burden, namely self-registration, that option of self-declaration without needing to go to the health centre to make an administrative act, such as to be declared, through this case telephone 881 or web form. And, of course, thanks to all those retired doctors who, welcoming that measure established by the Government of Spain to allow that return to jobs, are putting an important hand on that health burden but bureaucratic which is implicated in this current wave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u4	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, as the primary school is, you did an intervention that left us a bit cold. I don't know if it's the thing about a parliamentary debate or about getting the complaints out, the truth is that you're... Let's try to get a little bit of a head on the subject, see if with some wisdom we can build something. About the pandemic. Well, we, as you know, always consider that the situation is difficult and it's impossible to make an assessment by leaving out the idea that managing the pandemic is a complex thing. We understand that evolution is good. In this Parliament, which has been so slow, you come to talk about the wave of the pandemic when it's already coming down, and it's started to debate that it should come here when it's started going up. This is none of your business, it's Parliament's business; well, if it hadn't been because they'd seen it before. But, in any case, beyond that, evolution is now better than a couple of weeks ago, it's different, because it's being different, the affectation is different, fruit especially from vaccination; it's always worrying, but you have to know even to change the look. We believe that we must accompany the measures that are taken. You know, you know the government and you know everyone we want to be loyal about measures, understanding the difficulty. If we think there's a manual of instructions now that you're using, which is 2020, and the situation is in 2022, and this has changed something. It didn't vary that restrictions are made before the committee, that this is very good — it's no respect for you — but, in any case, if we believe that changing is possible, we have to understand that the situation is difficult. What helps all of this is vaccination, of course. It will allow me to do something surprising in this parliament, which is to maintain consistently the same position as always; I tell you because it costs you the same thing a little bit. Vaccination is a collective success, I have always said. By the way, I now assume that Galicia is doing very well in vaccination, that it works very well, and let me remind you, with the consistency I said at first: do you remember when they did the shameful show of saying that the ministry, the government of the state, did not give enough vaccines? So, now what? Which Galicia is the most privileged? No, no, no, no. It wasn't before, nor is it now. It's not about privilege, as it's never meant to attack, never, never. [[Applause]] That's never been the case. Galicia receives the ones she has to receive, always does, always will. Because this is a ministry that does things the way it has to do, doesn't get into other dynamics and, of course, much worse would it have been if this had happened like in the House of Ourense, who had given the vaccines for whom he went in at 12 and a minute to ask for subsidies, that that would have been something else. Then we would do the thing according to other criteria. On primary care, I'll do it without much smell; well, I'll almost have a little stink. You say, with a certain altitude, allow me, that the ministry has begun to make decisions now. I am not going to come in to talk about the ministry, because I think the situation is here, because I remember that health competes in the Autonomous Community. Look, the last strategic framework of the ministry you know is 2019. You say they've started taking action now. If you don't have the strategic framework, I'll leave you a copy in Parliament. It's weird, because Galicia was in that deal. The previous one, 2019, was taken in 2007; 2007-2012 was the duration. You may ask what happened in the Ministry of Health between 2012 and the following years, you may ask. But to ask don't look at that side, look here. Because the space where there was not a single strategic framework of primary care in Spain was ruling you. So orient well when he makes any criticism. There is a strategic framework in 2019, with a series of coordinated measures, of course, accepted by all autonomous communities. It's rather disloyal to accept them there and come here to criticize him, and much more disloyal to come here to say that nothing is done. If you don't have the copies, I'll leave them, but I think it's pretty easy; on Google I think I'm the first and third exit that comes out of Google. The 2007-2012 year and the 2009 year. From there on, primary care. There's a resource and model problem, yes, of resources. Not only because primary care has less budget than last year, but also about where resources are. Because it's not a problem that professionals are on vacation. That feeds a situation, but we were here before, eh! The pandemic what it did was to make the problem more appealing, but the reality was already there, there were already fifteen days to wait for primary care before the pandemic. We already had over 50 patients per professional before the pandemic. The professionals were already saying before the pandemic that we were in a limited situation. We were talking about changing the model before the pandemic. If all this ever existed, the pandemic accelerated it. And by the way, obviously, the pandemic is not the fault of the People's Party. It only posed a very serious problem about primary care as well. But let us not forget that we are now talking structurally about the problems that existed before, and if it is a resource problem in a large part. Because look, resources in terms of personnel basically. Of those who were and are not, which is called cuts. Today there's all the other data; that's Walt Disney. Budget against budget, because we are left to argue that budgets are not the fundamental strategic and political document of a government and therefore the fundamental debate of a parliament. Budget 2009 against budget 2022: 976 professionals less in primary care — don't say no, Counsellor, with their heads. But let's see: are you the budget you have is a lie? I'll consider it true what they bring, I can discuss it, but it's true. They have 976 less professionals today. Point. The other thing is to consider that thirty contracts to one person are thirty people; I suppose they're not doing that trick. Those who were supposed to be. You're talking about the emergency specialty now. See if you can tell me what the People's Party did because of the emergency situation. If possible, tell me later, but I guess you don't have much to tell about it. Eighty percent of the MIRs who end up in family medicine in Galicia are not working in primary care in Galicia, 80 percent are not working in primary care in Galicia. I understand I wonder where I get that data from. Most of all, you say more than 50% is in emergency. First, more than 50% — we already have 50% — in emergencies, not in health centres, Counsellor. I guess we're not trying to make that mistake. They're in primary care from some private centers, they're in other autonomous communities, they're even doing the MIR in other specialties because they can rotate. But that's the data, they're not. Why? Because the conditions are very bad. Those are the ones that should be, the ones who were already cut them, the ones who should be somewhere else, because the conditions are very bad. What about the ones who're coming? You're talking about an extraordinary MIR. We're going to assume — I understand — that we're jumping that the People's Party changed the law to say that an extraordinary MIR was illegal every year; Ana Pastor changed it. But we're going to save that detail from illegality; finally, an Aznar government tells you about illegalities, well, finally... but we're going to skip that detail. How much is an extraordinary MIR? Double what we have a year? We're going to save you as well as you're not counting on how you're going to titrate them, in which space, if you're going to double professionals, if you're going to get tired of the consultations, see if there's gonna be so many MIRs in the consultations that there won't be patients. But we're going to save that problem and say, double. Today there are 142. By the way, never, ever with a PP government in the state, has been more, not even 100 MIR squares of family and community medicine in Galicia, never. Now we're in 142 and they complain. It's okay to complain, see if they get any more. But let's say it's duplicate. Do you know where 151 family doctors are who could be training in Galicia? These are the squares you've renounced since Mr. Feijóo's rule. Why did they give up? Because they were qualified, they could call and they didn't. 151, 137 family and community nursing. Why did they give up, why? Wouldn't they need it? Now they complain and ask for an extraordinary MIR. There they have the extraordinary MIR, which you have renounced. Why should they ask for it? Then don't call him? Because it could be. So, those who were are no longer, because you've cut them off; those who could be, by working conditions, run away to other services, elsewhere; and those who might be in the future, you're resigning from summoning them. Man, it's a little incoherent to ask for an extraordinary MIR with that. How else was the only solution. Because that's a personal problem, but there's a model problem, which is also the solution, one above all, because there's the staff. I like it very much and I congratulate you for the work you're doing to accompany you in the administrative work. The more administrative work another staff does, the more space a doctor or other professionals has for the clinic, the fantastic. I remember when I talked about it here and the People's Party was laughing, making fun of it, of me. I already, as you will understand, I have a little backbone, not much so, but I'm glad that you make that decision because we think it's good. They were actually released. But not only with respect to the coward. Before the vault it was very common, very natural, anyone who knows, that attending the family doctor was supposed to see him a third of the time, as a little bit, writing on the computer, not because he wanted it but because he had to, because he had an administrative burden. But when it comes to the model, it's not all doctors, health care isn't just doctors, they're important, but we have to make it really multidisciplinary, which today is not. Today it's all concentrated in the doctor, and we must make choices, also in primary care, we must diversify, we must have lots of specialties, we must expand the volume of professionals. And multidisciplinary isn't a psychologist for 400,000 inhabitants, as they recently incorporated. It's to dump mental health services as well as primary, it's to incorporate social workers, because the psychosocial problem somatizes a lot and has a lot to do with health plans. Of course you say we'd like to make prevention. With whom? Well, also to prevent mobility, it's a very common problem for older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u7	We should have physiotherapists. We could incorporate podologists into primary care. We could tie up a lot of services. We could assign hospital specialists to do long-distance clinics there with prompt consultations once every x time. We could devirtualize health a little bit and make it a little more human. But that's not possible. Why? Because you've bet on the cuts -- there's the data -- and conformism. In order to find a culprit, they're in line with the situation, and we think it's much better -- and we always tell them -- to find solutions than to look for guilty. Because to find guilty we can compete, but we're not going to solve the problem, which today is shocking, but which was already before the pandemic, Counsellor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u8	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I must start by telling him you're late for this parliament. The stress of the health system is in a number of odds never previously imagined or suffered, despite this intervention that you've had, where it seems like we're inside normal. And you look like you when we've been in the middle of the sixth wave of the coward-19, when we've been weeks with a fixed picture, the fixed picture of a collapsed primary care, the decimated staff, the exhausted staff, the ski-working equipment to deal with the health needs of the population, the thousands of people who go to shelter in their homes, because, even though they don't have to be hospitalized, it doesn't mean they're all mild symptoms, but there's a lot of people who are in their homes going through quite badly, and that's what they need consulting, follow-up, treatment and management. Those 75,000 -- because at the speed that they give up, we could be talking about a lot more -- that they need follow-up and control and that looks like nothing, that they're just at home watching television. Weeks after taking the decision to restrict the care activity and leave it reduced to emergency and case shelters, in four health centers in Vigo's health area caused all the alarms to be skipped and certified the collapse of primary care in this area, and it meant that they had to assume the disaster of a limited situation. You compare yourself weeks after you have led thousands of Galicians and of Galicians to despair, because they have derived responsibility from the population, forcing them to self-management and pay for management, that self-management (self-management, self-tests, self-diagnosis, self-care, self-payments...), a self-management in which the most vulnerable people, who do not have the economic resources or capacity and so on, because they are excluded and thrown away. But you can afford to spend weeks without coming to this parliament to explain and at least say what measures they are taking, apart from coming today systematically repeating the same ones. Nothing new under the sun said you here today in this intervention. You come here today with a fixed picture of the consequence of applying these neoliberal policies also to health, economic policies for years applied by the People's Party and not policies to ensure essential public service as is health. Because it has to be said loud and clear that health care is not being carried out by waste, by incapacity, by incompetence — that there is also, there is, and enough — but it is a scheduled flight, a scheduled flight that is carrying out systematically, in the last twelve years more intensively, responding to this project calculated of less public health in order to fatten private health. Because that's the road map. And you're going to get here and say, "Yellow!," they insist on it. Yes, we insist on it, because if you don't, I'll use it here to study how much private health insurance has increased since you govern, how much more people who systematically attend private health care because they have no public health response. [[Applause]] It's so clear, Counselor. How much money did they increase percent of the money that goes to private health directly from the administration or from the pockets of the citizens themselves and how much did the budget increase in public health? I use it to have the courage to do a study on that to see if we put, once and for all, white on black. Because just so, since it's clear that this is a scheduled flight, it's understood that two years after starting the pandemic, we're facing the sixth wave with a flagrant lack of means, organization and planning. Because that's what's happening in the sixth wave. Two years later — I have to stress this — exhausted, exhausted, exhausted professionals, discoordinated between the case tracking centre and health centres, telephones for permanent collapse positive people, Counsellor. A sixth wave of decisions that only increase the confusion and chaos between the population and the professionals, who no longer know what is the protocol that is in force, what measures have to be taken, what is to be done at this time; patterns and protocols changing every half hour. I'd like you to explain to me, Counsellor, why they were taking that measure collectively, which led to a situation of collective contagion, by reducing quarantine of positives without symptoms, removing quarantines from close contacts, not tracking positives and contacts, having in the hands of a company that has its staff in precarious working conditions, poorly paid, less than seven euros per hour; measures all of them, of course, tending to that collective contact. Because, in the absence of another explanation, I want to ask you whether the measures are to prevent people from becoming infected or to prevent them from stopping working. That's a question I'd like you to answer, whether I'm to prevent people from getting infected or not to stop working, and what is the guarantee that with these short quarantines people stop contagious when they lift the quarantine and when they tell them that they can make normal life. [[Applause]] Counsellor, primary care at the edge of the precipice, at the ICU, and this situation is not solved with patches, placing tyrants, but with real and powerful measures. Because look, the control of any public health problem has two legs, and very interdependent: one, the policies that apply, and then individual responsibility, but you are the ones that have been derived from the individual responsibility of the population for many months. And Junta has responsibilities. He has responsibilities and actions that he can and must perform, even though he's been disconcerting for a long time. And the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to act with all possible means to protect the population, and you are not doing so. Vaccination is important, but you know it's not enough, you know it's not enough, it's not enough, there's a lot more action to put in place. Finally, you say you recognize the lack of professionals. Who recognizes him? You don't seem to. How many years have we been telling you what's going to happen? How many years have we been telling you what your own human resources plan was, where was the number of retirements going to occur? And what did they do? Listen to nothing at all and take no action. Look, between the years 2012 and 2017, they retired in Galicia, primary care doctors, family and community, 331; they only refused 221, that is, 110 minus in five years, 2012-2017. 175 retired from pediatrics; only 96; 79 less. Why only two data, 2012-2017? Because from there you stopped giving this data. Why? So you wouldn't know what was happening. And in those years 2012-2017 they kept the replacement rate, it kept the People's Party, because in those years it ruled the People's Party in Madrid, and all these professionals didn't go back again. Who do you mean when you say that you finally recognize that there are no professionals in primary care? You, the People's Party? Who exactly? Because years and years of telling them what was going to happen and you didn't take note, because you didn't want to take note or want to act, because -- I insist -- your roadmap goes on the other side. And the prediction, Counselor, not denied by the counsellor, is that in the next four years they will retire around four hundred doctors in the family. What is the forecast to solve this problem? Because there are currently 55 cups missing in Galicia. And of course, your solution goes by saying -- I heard the president of the board astonished yesterday -- that they were asking for extraordinary MIR to deal with the pandemic situation. But how long has it taken to form an extraordinary MIR, Counselor? Four years. The forecast? That in four years we're still in the pandemic? You have to be a little serious about informing the population, not creating false stories, but explaining what measures and what powers the Board has to act on. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] Because I've been here since then and I'm also amazed that you say that the government of the state is finally taking action with regard to primary care. But it's that health skills are from the board of Galicia, Counsellor, health skills are from the board of Galicia, and there's a lot of action you can take and you're not taking. And the first is the issue of budgeting. I have to go back to insisting: Galicia is in line for investment in primary care. But it's in line with the last known data, which is that we have 12%, when the average state is 14.2%. We're the rooms in the queue. It would mean that being on average would have to invest 262 million euros a year more in primary care to be in the middle of the state. And far from it, what does the People's Party do? For the budget for primary care for this year 2022 is even lower than in the year 2021. So who's to blame for not budgeting primary care? Do you seriously take the problems of this level of assistance when you spend less resources than the previous year and a lot less or less to be in the middle of the state? That's not serious, Counselor. 47 million euros less, 277 million if we apply the IPC. [[Applause]] You persist in a labour policy of ill-treatment of staff, in the middle of the pandemic. Look, I'm going to give you a series of data that I have here. In the middle of the pandemic, for example, nursing has reported that they continue with really precarious contracts and maltreatment of staff. [[Mr. Prado Colors displays a document.]] Look, I've got a few working lives here, but we could have, it's a sample, we could have a lot more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u11	34 contracts in two months, 28 of a day. 53 contracts in three months, 46 of a day. 15 contracts per month and a half, in eight different centres. And we can go this way. 30 contracts in 50 days, 22 of a day. I can follow you like this, Counselor. So you find it strange that professionals don't want to work on this collapsed primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u13	...and in these working conditions, Counselor? It's impossible for them to do so. I could follow, and I'll follow the next shift, telling you the situation in which there are many health centers, with staff reduced to the slightest expression. And so, Counselor, it's not possible. That's why I'm asking you if you're going to at some point to leave the improvisation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u15	...to throw balloons out or to blame the mortar and start taking action...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u17	...to ensure that primary care has sufficient resources to care for the population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u18	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u20	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u21	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. First of all, from the People's Group we want to thank the transparency of the German Government. As you have already pointed out a few days ago in the Permanent Deputy, the Board has maintained its periodic reporting to this parliament throughout the pandemic, even when this chamber was dissolved and we had no doubt that you, Counsellor, would no longer begin this period of sessions to inform us of the latest news. Thank you very much, Counselor, for giving accounts and appearing periodically in this chamber. [[Applause]] The opposition was interested in the management of the pandemic in Galicia and we believe that a number of clear data were given. On the cumulative impact, under the average of Spain, even though Galicia, on the contrary, other autonomous communities, is doing an exercise of transparency by communicating to the ministry all the positive ones that are reported by self-tests, which is not done from some communities. If we talk about percentage of hospital occupation by the coward, we have the minor of Spain, both on the plant and in critical beds. And let's talk about vaccination. Galicia, head of Spain, both in population with full pattern and in doses of child reinforcement or vaccination, moving forward for several weeks to the targets marked by the Government of Spain. In some age ranges the percentage of vaccines with strength doses in Galicia is 30 or 40 points above the national average. We have heard you, Counselor, that Galicia is at the head of state level, just as it has been throughout this year since the process began. Galicia administered 100% of total doses, when the national average is 95.49%. I want to remind you here, Mr. Torrado, when you said that there were not enough staff and the Nationalist Bloc lords too, that every dose that has been used has not expired. And for statements, Mr Torrado, as from President Sánchez: he vaccinates without looking at who the people vote. That statement is to be taken into account, eh! Well, as I said, all of this, coupled with the data known to all of us that Galicia is the autonomous peninsula community with a lower rate of death from the start of the pandemic, would be enough to put an end to this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of the pandemic in Galicia was good. It resists any comparison that you would like to make, even that which Mrs. Pontón did when she wanted to compare with New Zealand's islands, which were the management model of the BNG pandemic, whose policy of continuous confinements, as was requested from the BNG in Galicia, had to give up last fall when it ceased to be a model and had to abandon the strategy of total elimination of the vault, recognizing the impossibility of one to one of the cases of coronoviruses in the face of the expansion of the delta variant. No system is 100% perfect, Wiles recognized, New Zealand's most media scientist. And I also want to thank all the health professionals involved here and all the people of Greece for their commitment and responsibility, the little sentiño, which allowed Galicia to deal with vaccination not only at Spanish level but also at European level. [[Applause]] But of course, as comparative data on pandemic management are so eloquent, you have to talk to us about another topic, which is the situation of primary care. And they also talk about it as if it were incomparable, as if it were a situation that occurred exclusively in Galicia by the policies of the People's Party and by the politics of Beijóo. They could then explain to us both Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado why Asturias' primary care unions are gathering signatures to reprobate the Socialist Health Adviser, or some demonstrations by professionals of asturian care in the media. We read: We feel mistreated by the health system, we are fed up, we can't anymore. This is the result of years of bad management. The only solution to recover lost personnel in these years and those who have not been cared for at all is to offer decent working conditions, something that is not happening or I think it will happen in Asturias. Or the situation of primary care in Catalonia, where health is managed by BNG partners over the past four years: We don't feel that there is a bet to really make primary care have the strength it must have. The doctors were, but they've gone, and in nurses, more than the same. Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado, you tell us that we must listen to professionals. You could tell us the reason why you don't listen to the PSOE where they rule and also where they govern the BNG partners. We're also told that the staff are fleeing Galicia because of working conditions. Where are you going? Of course, not the communities that are governed by the PSOE or the BNG partners. So everything seems to indicate that this problem of primary care saturation is not a Greek problem, but rather, ladies and gentlemen, as well as you are aware of it, and another thing is that you try to confuse and try to torpedo information, is a state problem. This shortage of professionals — as the Government of Spain itself has acknowledged it, and so the Ministry of Health has published a decree allowing the recruitment of retirees — is a state problem, which occurs in every and every autonomous community, governs who governs, and is not linked, as you say from the opposition or want to see, to the policies of the Government of Feijóo. Everything's the other way around. In fact, the policies of the Government of Feijóo, such as the National Primary Care Plan, have contributed to alleviating the problems that the lack of specialists is causing in primary care throughout Spain. Last December, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System approved a state plan for primary and community care. It was a continuation of another state primary plan that approved the Socialist Government in 2019, and which set as a long-term goal to reduce the average of patients per primary care physician to 1,500. Well, Galicia is in 1,250. Let us see what measures this new state plan proposes for the autonomous communities. Increased access to Primary Care upon request for diagnostic tests; in Galicia this is enhanced from the Plan galego 2019-2021. potentiating specialist, family and community nursing; a category also created in Galicia in 2016 and where there are already professionals with ownership squares, after the corresponding selective programs. Another measure. The impulse of digital tools for patient monitoring; blessed Telea in Galicia, which has saved us a lot, has been implanted for years. Or for demand management too; for the similarity of the XIDE system, of what the counsellor said, and that Sergas is implementing in the administrative services of health centres. They also talk about the impulse of digital clinical history, with teleconsultation systems, videoconsultation, access to big data or introduction of information by the patient, all of these features that are already incorporated into the latest version of the Welsh electronic clinical history system. Or the development of the competence maps of professional categories, carried out by the groups created within the Primary Care Technical Council in 2019 and approved during 2021. Or the improvement of models of governance, autonomy and management in health centres, as well as the similarity of local health plans that are being piloted this year in several Greek centers and that the Union wants to extend by strengthening the time and autonomy of the centers, with the reform of the primary care regulatory decree, which it started this year. They also talked about the introduction of incentives for difficult-covered squares, which were already envisaged in Galicia in 2019. Or the establishment of incentives for the tutorial function, for which Galicia is already working on a new specialized health training decree that contemplates these improvements for the professionals who collaborate in the teaching of residents. Or promoting the recruitment of residents with at least two-year contracts. Let's remember that Galicia has been doing this since 2019, with the continuity contract of up to three years and with the option of conversion into fixed after these three years, as the 2022 budgets already cover 86 of these squares. Consequently, what the Ministry of Health tells the autonomous communities to strengthen primary care is that they follow the steps that have been marked by Galicia. This is the solution of the Socialist Government. But, look, even the Ministry of Health wants to extend to the rest of the autonomous communities the community contract that Mr Torrado has so criticized in this parliament. There are curious things, and here again the Ministry of Health of Madrid and the Greek Socialist Party separate their ways. The Socialist Party here votes to remove the limits of the replacement rates, but the ministry refuses to do so. The Socialist Party here signed a joint initiative, which was approved unanimously, for the creation of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u23	... already finished—preferably and independently of the truncheon decree the emergency medicine specialty, but the ministry has already responded to the Board that it does not intend to do so. And it's going to end this trunchum-training decree of specialties and then the emergency specialty will have to line up. Counsellor, you came here in November 2020 and in 2021 in February, April, May and August to account for the pandemic. You have often appeared on this camera. It's funny to hear what we hear here. The opposition, of course, continues in the same, in the line of lies, the despicableness of health and tersiveness. We thank you for coming here and telling us how the Galician lines are going. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u24	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u25	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is it's a pity that, after this mouse speaking, we will not reach virtually any point in common, because I tried to explain the specific features of this wave that we live on, basically the fault of the variant, Mr. Torrado. I didn't blame anyone who asks for dates or the ministry of the current situation. I think I made it clear that it was a matter derived from the characteristics of the variant. But for you the variant this doesn't affect anything, the problem comes from 2019. I insist: at no time will you want to say that I blame the patients for making a bad appointment. Another thing — and I'm glad that you agree with it — is that there are appointments that are being asked in health centers — not now but for a long time now — that can be solved in a different way than going through the doctor's consultation. You said we have the instruction manual for the year 2020. Well, no, look, luckily or unfortunately, the manuals are changing, and we've been doing in these last few weeks — especially in the last two weeks — a substantial change in the characteristics of pandemic management, especially with regard to the active cases and their contacts. Not so, fortunately, with the situation of those people who require urgent attention or income from both plants and critics. And I point out again that we have 633 patients admitted to today, which is nothing trivial. But, as I said, in the field of mild pathology, of mild cases, we were actually modifying our management conditions logically, because with the previous conditions, apart from being unattainable with that structure above all the levity characteristics of how this variant affects citizens, fortunately they require a different model. If you think that the solution to this variant is to keep the contact close, please, I'd like you to tell me about the second interventions. Was it wrong for the Galician Union and it had to have closed contact, even if they had a double vaccination pattern or a third dose? That's what you think we had to do. Well, if that's the case, I'd particularly like the Block to tell me, because it seems that the decisions we made in favour of entrepreneurs, once again. Well, Mr. Torrado, the Clinical Committee, for your information, meets every week; rather, it meets every day. We talked to them last Thursday, we worked on the protocol of the Entrance, which I think is something public that we've been commenting on for some time now, and we're also working on the review of the measures that were taken at a critical time as it was just before the end of the year. And they made sense of those measures, looked at the results, looked at the impact of those measures. And, therefore, in the Clinical Committee every day, and especially once a week with the subcommittee, there are discussions and we know where we're going. It's not unfair to transfer it when the media ask or you yourself if you have. At today's afternoon meeting, the committee will make the decision corresponding to the variants that can be tinted there. Well, I didn't want to talk about the vaccines and I kept the positive data, and I think it's also worth everyone, even the opposition parties to support this vaccination program, and of course the Government that buys them in the European Union and makes them available to us. And there ends the function of the Government, Mr. Torrado. The government puts them here or we're going to look for them sometimes, and from there all vaccination is a matter for the autonomous communities. I didn't want to go back to that discussion of whether we were in Galicia... because of course we received vaccines at first rather than other autonomous communities, but less than other autonomous communities as well. And when the bomb and plate were announced that four million doses were coming across the state and told us that Galicia was nowhere near, we -- as our job is to defend the Greeks -- had to say that it was unfair and that we wanted the same vaccines as the autonomous community that most received, which is Asturias. [[Applause]] And you know that. We don't ask for one more in proportion than the ones Asturias receives. And the answer was zero vaccines. No, it's true, Mr. Torrado. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, fortunately that deviation has been corrected and we finally got to have them and we can — I remember — vaccinate all the boys between 12 and 19 before they started the course; we got to vaccinate them all; that was our goal. Nor do you comment on the need that we had in Galicia to ask that we be allowed to vaccinate under 39, in view of the risk of having to stop vaccination for weeks, which was about to happen. Finally, it's true that when Asturias also asked for vaccines to arrive for those under 39, the ministry has entered, and for two weeks now we can vaccinate minors under 39. I -- I insist -- didn't want to talk about vaccines, but if you talk to me about vaccines, I'm talking to you too, I won't stay saying that the ministry here is perfectly divided. Well, you were talking about the 2019 Strategic Plan. True, there was a strategic plan in 2019, which Galicia did not approve; no, it did not approve... You didn't approve, you didn't approve of that plan. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And you didn't approve it, first, because it wasn't consensual, it wasn't discussed and also curiously pressed the Greek plan, the Primary Care Plan 2019-2021, which is what we have developed in this period. As I said earlier, with 331 places in primary care, 80 of them doctors. So don't say that nothing has been done and that the Government has done. That plan's there. In fact, a lot of the things that this plan has been going on in Galicia for a long time now. And with regard to the new plan, I have to tell you -- because we also told you in public and I think I also told you -- that it was Galicia that you asked for at the meeting of the Interterritorial Council that took place in the presence of the summer in Madrid to make an extraordinary interterritorial council on the situation of primary care. That council was held in October and there was where the ministry resumed the plan of action; action plan, this yes, which was discussed with the autonomous and consensual communities and which was approved before the end of this year, and which contemplates, as Mrs. Amigo said, many of the actions that are now not being developed but are being implemented. And you — I am now lucky to have it right behind me — cried out when Mrs. Friend said that the average in Galicia is 2,241 TIS per optional. It's the average; maybe he doesn't like to do the averages or in his calculator, the averages are elsewhere, but that's the average. Of course we have professionals with more than 2,241, more would be missing, and we have one with 300. But the average of the TIS in Galicia is 1,250, when that document, both in 2019 and recently approved, speaks of the 1,500 limit. So in that sense in Galicia — probably also because the population decreases and also because we have put those 80 more doctors — the average number of TIS per optional is 1,250. You were talking about what we've done for the emergency department? Again, Mr Torrado — and thanking, as I did in my speech, that this parliament had supported this specialty; well, it was supported by the parliamentary groups and supported by the Government—the ministry that decided to put it in the coffin of the decree of truncy and until that decree crystallizes—we do not know when, because the deadlines I asked the minister on several occasions, and it is in the acts of the Interterritorial Council—there is no answer. We do not know when the Ministry of Health will end that decree of trunquality, and from then on, with the mechanisms that this decree establishes, we could finally consider the specialty of emergencies, which we clearly defend and ask for. Why? Well, as you said a little while ago, and I never denied it -- we say the fact that 90% of the Greek IRM trained in Galicia in recent years is working in Galicia, I say that exactly, I don't say in primary care -- I wish I could say that they're working in primary care. We're dealing with the data that we hear here again today or these days, that run away from the MIRs formed in Galicia, it's not true. And you, in addition, to answer me where I get 80%, tell me about the data left in the emergency room. Well, that's, they're in the emergency room. That's why we want emergency room so that the people who want to specialize in emergency room don't have to do family medicine. That's where we agree. Well, don't leave, stay here, Mr. Torrado, stay in Galicia, stay in Galicia, stay in Galicia. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Because I was listening these days to some of his companions saying they were leaving Galicia. No, it's not, they're staying in Galicia, 90% stay in Galicia. There's a percentage -- which you said in addition -- that repeats specialty, they do another specialty. Great, our MIR system allows a doctor to do up to three specialties, and even do the same; it allows our system. But we would like it to be this specialty, and that's why we ask the Minister of Health every time we have the emergency specialty. More importantly, we've asked him almost every interterritorial council, and not only Galicia, they're asking him for a lot of autonomous communities. The answer is the same when it comes to the decree of trunquality. So of course that specialty is there. I insist on thanking the opposition groups and the People's Party for asking for this specialty, but it's not enough. And besides, I feel like it's gonna take a long time to get there, because I feel like there's no courage on the part of the ministry in dealing with that particular issue. Well, by insisting on this data that we said before they actually stay here, 90% stay here with us. And of this 90% that remains with us, 60% has a place in property; that is, 2,000 they have been formed in Galicia in the last ten years and of those that 90% have stayed in Galicia, 60% of them have a place in property. Again, one part in emergencies and another part in primary care, and another part in Hado and another part in CAPs, but they have place in property after ten years; another part important part is in interintences and one part also important is in long-lasting substitutions. So it's not a problem that we treat them badly. We would like to be able to give them a much greater attribution, but the data is true, and there you return -- I don't know how to say it -- to manipulate or put the budget data in a manner that is oriented to your interest. Look, you take the budget and tell me how much of chapter I is in primary care. I'm going to say: 100 million more euros than in 2009, 100 million more. What do we got? 900 doctors less and we spend 100 million more? Oysters, so they don't leave. This is inconsistent. If we spend 100 million euros more on primary care in chapter I, like we have 900 doctors less? Don't you realize that you're playing — if you realize it perfectly — on the theme of APDs, amortization...? This reminds me of the debate you had with the late Valeriano Martínez. It's a problem of how the squares are counted, in this case the ODAs, which, fortunately, we're going to retrain. But the reality is bad: we have 100 doctors more in primary care than in 2009. [[Applause]] And with regard to this year's budget, it's 5.5 million euros more than last year in chapter I. They can't keep manipulating. Don't you realize this isn't? Mrs Prado speaks of privatization; i.e., we make health centers, 93 new health centers, the last ones we just announced to privatize. But don't they realize that people don't believe these lies? We don't privatize primary care. Where did you see that? If we put — I repeat — 100 doctors more than in 2009 or 80 in the last primary care plan! Leave that message. The problem with primary care is that we don't have specialists trained to replace, that's the problem. We hire more nurses, more social workers, more psychologists, more PSX. We now have almost 300 PSX more than at the beginning of the pandemic. It's not a problem of human resources in primary care or budget care, it's a problem that when a doctor falls or retires it's very hard to replace because we don't have them. And we don't have them because, on the one hand, half of them go away in an emergency, and we've been working with you to get that specialty, and, on the other hand, they don't get it. Of course we've been trying to believe more squares for a while. I don't know if you know how this works. Autonomous communities propose accreditation units, accredited squares. It's true that it's a model of obsolete accreditation, over thirty years ago. By the way, this autonomous community has proposed major reforms to the ministry of silence, obtaining zero response at the moment. Well, about that old system of believing squares, the autonomous community asks for squares, the ministry evaluates them and grants them, and once they are evaluated and granted to the autonomous community can cover them. In order to offer these squares you have to have proper tutors and, as I said, centers that meet the characteristics. For example, if a center has less than four doctors, it can't have residents in this case, even if it has tutors; and sometimes you have more than four centers but there are no tutors. We just applied a little while ago, also with a completely twisted reading by some, that if a tutor moves to a health center, taking advantage of which he's going to be a tutor, that gives him points. That's right, when he gets to that health center, he has to be a tutor, it's not worth saying when he gets there: I'm not a tutor now. I mean, we're working on increasing, as far as possible, the number of qualified squares. And in that context in October to this ministry, not the other one, he was asked to believe 65 more squares. We didn't want an extraordinary MIR, or yes. What we want is that new accredited MIR squares can either be incorporated into this year's summons or, if the ministry doesn't give time to an extraordinary MIR; what the ministry, which is what makes the call, considers more timely. But if this year had taken note of us since October with those 65 more squares, in May, in three months, we would have 65 more doctors forming, added to 142; we would have 206 doctors forming. I understand that a MIR doctor at a health center of three doctors, for example, is a help, or isn't it? Well, we could have 65 more tips this year. And as the Government decided not to review those credentials, because it doesn't give him time, we won't have them. Let's see if we have them next year. It's as simple as that. So, of course, we complain that the ministry is not helping us. It's the only thing you have to do, you have to take our request, see if you adapt to the conditions of that document years ago, not to the news -- we don't talk about it -- and tell us to adapt and authorize it. We pay those squares, we pay them, they enter into our budget. We try to convince the tutors to take these students, we do everything. The ministry only has to say whether it adapts or not. Result: not answered. So, of course, we have to complain that in the formation part, so critical, as you well know, in that the net result is seen at the age of four, we have a ministry that says no; it is that I have already believed many squares. No, we need more squares. And so we're going to keep insisting on it. Of course we have to expand the number of professionals. I think it is very clear that primary care teams in Galicia are multidisciplinary. There are the categories I'm not going to repeat here because everyone knows. You're talking about mental health. This year we have incorporated 5 mental health units into primary care, 5 into the mental health plan, which included 99 more professionals working in this critical area, many of them in primary care, of course yes. You were talking about the possibility of bringing specialists to the health centers. Mr. Torrado, we've been doing this for thirty years, with more or less success, depending on the professionals, which is sometimes difficult to move to these centers, but we do. In the new centers, in the CIS, in the comprehensive health centers, which we're doing in this primary care planning... in the CIS, we're doing a few more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The one we're doing... is not finished; the first thing that's going to end is Lugo's. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in those comprehensive health centers we incorporate specialists from hospitals that either in person or through video conferencing will be able to work, as they are already doing right now, Mr. Torrado. There are a lot of specialists in our hospitals who travel to health centers with reference facilities by video conferencing; there are lots of examples. Of course we have to go on that line, of course we do. But, ultimately, with regard to your appreciation, I want to insist on these things. That, yes, we are developing a primary care plan in Galicia, not only the plan of the ministry, which was — I insist — without unanimity, without conviction. In Galicia we have our own plan since the year 2019 and, as a result of this plan, 331 professionals incorporated before the Galician pandemic, and 80 of them, 80 doctors, and 100 of them working in primary care since 2009. Well, Mrs. Prado was talking about high speed. Look, I don't know if you know that in Galicia until two weeks ago the heights were given to the fourteen days of the active case, when the discharge period was set in ten days. We never play that game, Mrs. Prado. It's more, right now, it's in seven, we give it to you at ten days. So you can see that it's no one's intention, nor this council, to manipulate the data. If I was going that way, I don't know where I was going. Another test further — and I appreciate the comment made by Dr. Friend—: Galicia had it very clear that all the self-tests that were already registered will see it last summer in the pharmacy offices, that this is not new, and now with the self-declaration of the citizens, all that information had to be declared as positive cases, and so we did it from the first moment and so we will continue to do it. So don't talk about manipulating data, because it's ugly. I believe that, in addition, in this community, which has been characterized by transparency in positive cases from the first day, with information to the optional ones, with maps of incidence per province, for the council, to let go of any doubt about whether we delay or advance the high ones, look, no, really, that right now, as I say, we are doing it at ten days, we do not rule it out by seven days, but we leave it until ten days so that the optional can see those positive cases if, for some reason, he couldn't see it before. And why do we do it? Precisely, Mrs Prado, because with the new protocol, instead of calling patients every day, it's called the first day and the last. Why's his last name? Because if in the last call the patient has symptoms yet, he doesn't get up, but he renews. If you analyze the information we are giving -- or I explain it without any problem -- in the system of high and low, in Galicia the high followed by the bass is not automatic, it is voluntary, and the optional, when you choose in the option, can either give it automatically or just give it the corresponding bass. I have to say here that this was done this way because the Ministry of Social Security said it was very easy to put ups and downs together; that's right, to send it to me at seven days. So we had to modify the information system in order to do so. And — I repeat — it is optional on the part of the optional to give both. We are following the data and there are many of these optional ones that do not actually discharge in the same act, and at seven days they call the patient and, if the patient has symptoms, they renew him or her and wait for the corresponding time. So there's no intention, which you would suggest, that people had come back to work before. I wish! It would be a good sign that the citizens had returned as soon as they worked. That would be mainly because they're no longer active. But well, I repeat, that's the fundamental philosophy. You were talking about self-management, and you were even talking about self-payment. I don't know what it meant about self-payment, but well, as you're the economic part likes to always put it and keep saying that we privatized primary care, I suppose it was part of that. Look, there's no self-paid here in the pandemic. Galicia has done free tests for everyone, all that they need. We've delivered self-tests, in this case to the pharmacy offices -- I've just said -- 150,000 to the children when they went on vacation and 150,000 when they came back. We have 32 points of antigen distributed throughout the autonomous community; at airports, which have no one, at train stations. How can you say we want to charge for testing or even suggest it? It's not true. Go another way. In Galicia nothing related to the pandemic is privatized, absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] In contrast, you are apostatized by public health, and you speak of the derivation to the concerted centers. Look, we've already said it several times: in Galicia it is now sent less to the concerted center than ever before, it has never been sent less to the concerted center. I don't know why you're following the mackerel we sent to the concert center. It's fake, we don't send more patients than before to the concerted centers. And you're talking about private insurance. Well, I dare you to do this study throughout the state; to see that percentage of private insurance is in Galicia with respect to those in the rest of the state. Is it increasing? Yes, it's probably increasing here, as it increases in the rest of the state, but less than in the rest of the state. So, whenever you want to, we do this study, we talk to insurance companies and they tell us what percentage of private insurance they have in Galicia or what they have in Catalonia, for example, or in the Basque Country, whenever you want. In Galicia, fortunately, people trust our health system because they go to health centers and look at the work of professionals. If I'd listened to you talking about privatization, self-payment or politics to dismantle public health, they'd probably do that. But fortunately, they shouldn't listen to it very much, that most of the Greeks still trust the public health system and especially primary care. And we, who trust that, continue to invest; I say again: 100 million euros more than in 2009 or 104 doctors working right now in primary care. You're talking about a collapsed phone. Well, you're right, Mrs. Prado. There were days of January when the self-reporting phone was collapsed, because we had 8,000 cases every day; of course, you're right, I can't deny it. What did you do to Junta at that time? Then pick up that phone and put the people needed so that the response time was under fifteen minutes. And that gets you two days later, so you can call right now and see how long it takes you to pick up that phone. Of course, there may be some time on the day that coincides, but in general, with 130 specific teleoperators dedicated to picking up that phone right now even for more than two weeks there is no such delay. Why is that? Because we decided to change the way to follow up and provide the Greeks and the Greeks with a quick and agile tool so they could self-declar their positive outcome and not go to the health center. Today we're talking about the collapse of the health centers. We're talking about measures that try to reduce that collapse, minimize it, make it the minimum necessary for these exactly symptomatic patients that they have to go, and you tell me that the phone that... of course, of course, because we had 8,000 positive cases at some point. Again, it's the blame of the PP government, it's the policy of dismantling public health, but the variant and transmissibility doesn't play, it must also be our fault. Well, the protocols in force. Of course we changed them. We adapt them to this situation of this new variant. Look: the protocol of cases and close contacts did not change—then Mr. Torrado was right—almost in two years. Because the model of tracking active cases and contacts was very similar. The variants we've been having throughout this period were increasing in severity in their cases in the hospital, but really for communication and management effects were very similar. Until this variant arrived, which, as we all know, produces much lighter symptoms, much lighter cases and, fortunately, thanks to vaccination, also less hospital income. Then we had to change. And when did we change? Well, look, not when the Government of Galicia decided, but when the WHO, the European Medicines Agency, the ECDC and the Interterritorial Commission, supported by the Alerts Committee, decided that it was time to change the way the cases were handled. And Galicia did exactly that, once again loyal and transparent to Galicia's public system, and in this case also to Spain. We adapt our protocol just to that situation. That the measures that have been put in place, not in Galicia, but — I repeat — in all the autonomous communities, have been oriented or have they not achieved or sought to make the contagions bigger? Well, that's a personal posture that I respect, but I understand that you're not saying that you stop being quarantined to close contacts and that's how more citizens are going to be infected. Well, as you know, in the protocol, it's said that, if the citizen is in full vaccination pattern and he's not immune-depressed or has a number of conditions, he doesn't have to do that quarantine, which, by the way, is telling everyone everywhere. In that sense, we're not going to go radicals, and we're not going to tell people -- I repeat -- that with this slight variant, the close contact for fifteen days is at home, which is perhaps the date you think it was most timely. So we adapt to scientific evidence, to the recommendations of international organizations, and we have adapted, as I said, to those seven days without symptoms, when people return to their working lives and without symptoms and -- I insist -- with a call from their head doctor to confirm that he has no symptoms, and if he has them in that process. And, of course, we put all the means, vaccination of course, but also other measures. I insist: in all the PCRs that we're still doing in the house, they're still working on the same ones we had at first, those antigen points, those tests we delivered at the pharmacy offices, those saliva tests we're still doing at the pharmacy offices. I take this opportunity to thank the schools for that work, by the way, altruistic and free, which they're doing by collecting and delivering the saliva boots, and, through the different pharmaceuticals, doing the processing. He says we don't take action. Look, you were talking about 2015. In 2015, precisely a measure has been taken that has impacted quite a lot, which has been eliminating forced retirement at the age of 65; many of those who were retired before 2015 have ceased retirement. Also these 331 medical pitches that we incorporate into the Primary Primary Care Plan 2019-2021. We have brought into the Law measures — by the way, without any support from their side — two measures to improve the capacity of professionals in primary care: health technicians, who, as I say, will soon be incorporated with a series of measures; and the creation of this category of optional primary care specialist, who makes two guards. Look, in primary care sometimes -- I said at first -- we didn't distinguish between ordinary primary care, that of health centers, the centers that work from 8 to 3 in the morning and sometime in the afternoon, and primary care on a non-ordinary day, what we call the CAP. The CAP in Galicia is our first priority. Of course, when we have an optional specialist — as few as we have — our first goal is to cover a CAP shift. I think I can say that in Galicia there was not a single CAP in this period that had not been covered. In most areas there was no CAP either, nor the presences, in some areas instead of three doctors there were two, in some cases instead of two there was one, because the doctor who had a shift that day because for example went out positive and couldn't go to work. The priority has always been to cover the ordinary primary care points, which is also primary care, because sometimes it seems that the CAP is something else; no, the CAP is primary care. And precisely to continue to strengthen that primary care and to have more resources, this category that we brought to this parliament weeks ago — I repeat: without any support from opposition groups — will allow those new doctors we hire to make two CAP guards. This is a fact I think it matters. Depending on the squares we finally call, we're going to have an important mass of optional people who are going to keep guards in the CAP and, therefore, they're going to generate substitute resources or other types of optional available to cover the casualties, an important issue. And, in addition, we're sinking into something that I think we're going to agree on, which is working on integrating ordinary primary care and extraordinary care. It is good for the CAP doctors to keep watch, to work in an ordinary way, and for ordinary doctors to work in the CAP, as it has been demonstrated in the Reactivation Commission that was set up in this parliament, where primary specialists have called for this integration. So this category, which we just introduced now, from which in the next few days we will announce the call, has an impact on that line. Therefore, two measures in the area of Greek, specific to the area of Greek: health technicians and primary care EAFs, in order to try to help this situation. And these measures weren't taken on December 20 by the omiclon variant, they took quite a while ago, and, as I say, they're in the law of measurements. So these are measures that will help to make longer-term contracts. In addition, as you know, in the case of the EAFs, and following the introduction of the amendment of the People's Party, we are going to propose that you access these squares through a merit contest; there is no way to make them more attractive so that the final MIRs or other doctors quickly access a place on property. It's a place that, as I say, is implicit in making two CAP guards and breaking that isolation between ordinary and conventional primary care care and that extraordinary attention. I insist: measures to reduce these absences and facilitate the recruitment of these specialists, which, as I insist, are our main problem. And you were talking about precarious contracts. Well, look, we have a staff of 44,000 professionals, and many of them, most of them, they all have days of permission. When a nurse takes a day's leave on a plant, she has to be replaced, there's no more remedy left; you tell me that we can replace her, instead of for a day, for six months. Well, also, we did that, we pulled out the continuity contract so that the nurses could hire them for a long period of time and cover the absences chained by professionals. There are nurses who take those contracts that are there and offer themselves, and there are nurses who don't want those contracts. If a nurse doesn't want that contract and there's a nurse who takes a day off, the contract has to be on that nurse's day off; there's no other remedy. In the public health system contracts for one day have to exist because workers have the right to take one day. I don't know which part you don't understand. I repeat: to avoid that, we work and put in the continuity contract, so they can fit in and group free days. But not everyone gets that contract, it's not mandatory, it's not the only form of recruitment we have in the Galician Health Service. But, being aware of that reality, we put in place that contract, and we'll continue to use it as often as necessary, but don't tell yourself that the problem is that we don't have the ability to contract continuously. Yes, we do it through these contracts. But if a person asks for an isolated day, we have to hire an isolated day, in primary, on a plant or another plant. Yeah, that's the solution, we don't have another one at the moment. Finally — I insist — I come here to degrade the measures that are being done especially in the area of primary care, the ones that we have put more conjuncturally because of the characteristics of this omicron variant and the measures we have been working on from behind, essentially the primary care plan of Galicia 2019-2021 and the two important measures that we have just put on the table now with the law of measures. In any case, we will continue to comment on the following intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u26	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Even though we don't have much time, I'm going to try to clarify some things. I think it's important to talk about vaccination, because it's impossible to say that the government of the state is very bad because it doesn't give us vaccines but we're the best in the world to vaccinate because we're vaccinating all over the world. It's incongruent. Because, then, what did they vaccinate with? [[Applause]] With blessed water or... they vaccinated because there were vaccines. By the way, the professionals are vaccinated. I'm not going to go into that absurd debate that the Government of the State only buys vaccines — as if it were a little thing — and just puts them here and does nothing more. Well, I didn't see you wear any. Of course, I mean, if we put ourselves in that debate, absurd from my point of view, the professionals are vaccinated, which are the ones who have to vaccinate. Yeah, well, tell me, what a barbarity! But if you use the argument of: Pedro Sánchez didn't put any vaccine. Man!, less bad, less bad, because he's not a doctor, nor a nurse, I mean he's not a health care man, less bad. [[Laughter]] But, well, I don't know if the government was to put vaccines on some Saturday morning. I don't think so. That's why we say, in addition, that vaccination is decisive, because the data are good -- that I've already told you -- and that's why we say the measures are old-fashioned, because four unvaccinated people are much more problematic together than nine, ten or eleven if vaccinated, and that's why they take measures based on the number of people and not specifically the vaccination isn't appropriate. As if you're asking for the vaccination certificate. Another thing is that you don't control yourself, because one thing is to dictate a measure and then you don't keep an eye on it, and that's a problem, because what's the point of saying a measure if it's not done? About staff, because yes, it's about primary care, because attendance, Mrs. Friend, is also about primary care. Staff and model are the key to how we're working. And we have a problem on both issues. Let's see if I can try to explain it in a way that's easier. I don't give much more, either, but in the budget of the Galician Union — tell me Mr. Balsairo that I don't give much more, and I thank him for the confirmation — 8,634 people hired in primary care this year — page 88 of the memory you publish in the budgets, page 88. In 2009 -- there was no memory, no breakdown, it's on page 447, but they're numbered, they don't worry, they can look for it -- 9,610. Or this is true or budgets are lies. [[Applause]] I let them choose me one of the two, but it's not possible for both of them to be lies, because if they don't, at least, until I get there, I can't. I'm glad you tell me, Counselor, that the Ministry's primary care plan exists. In the first intervention he said that the first measure was in 2022, then tell me: oh!, it existed in 2019 but Galicia didn't like it. There is one question: you are not the universal measure of the possibility of acting in this world; it is absolutely legitimate that you do not like, of course, not only legitimate, but important, that you bring all the ideas to the state that you consider to be good, necessary, but there is the plan. He might not like it. It's more: I like to say: we didn't like it, but it's just that it already proposes the same thing that we did; then, they didn't like what you were doing; of course, this is fantastic. By the way, I keep asking you where the plan is between 2012 and the end of the Rajoy government, the strategic plan. Because there was 2007-2012 and there was 2019 ahead. In the middle? Anyway, see if you can answer me. But the fruit of this resource problem is: there are no autonomous communities that have better... If it's not better or worse, I mean, Castle-Leon, 1.12 professionals, primary care doctors, 1,000 inhabitants, 1.12. The People's Party governs, they'll have some measure; for example, there may be some Greek professionals there. Aragon, 0.88; Extremadura, 0.92; Galicia, beneath them, above others, of course. If we're not fatalists because yes, but what we say is the data, because otherwise not. You can argue with me that the argument is not right, that it's disastrous positions, that proposals are bad, but to fake the data, no. That's ahead. These are the data, and there are some better and others worse. You don't have to defend that one is always the prettiest, the smartest, the tallest. I know because I'm not one of the three things; then, I'm used to doing it. But, in any case, we have a staff problem in the sense that we have less than what we had, we formed less and, moreover, we were not — and here is another question — forming what is needed. There were 151 MIR professionals who didn't ask for it. Why? No one answered. And that's the extraordinary MIR. By the way, I ask you, Counselor: you said here now: we do not ask for an extraordinary MIR, or yes. I know what Mr. Feijóo says. I also know that this extraordinary MIR is illegal, because he was part of a government that illegalized him, actually. In fact, illegalization is a strong word, but it was placed in a law that says it wasn't possible. And that's what the extraordinary MIR asks, after letting go form all those. Do you want that extraordinary MIR? Because you talked about the enabled squares, which, by the way, we've been attending — and you know — for three and a half years, to which the Government of the State is taking forward all the qualified squares that have not been enabled because there was no one in the Ministry of Health 2011-2018, no one in the water, neither one, nor one, and you know it like me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u29	Not a skill, not a skill. Now we have 142, which before didn't reach 100. And they'll go on and they'll get there and so on, which would be the best. But do you want an extraordinary MIR? And, if you want, tell me where, how and by what means. Because we let it happen, we've formed less than we could form. You won't want to answer why you quit, I suppose because you think the same as me, but I can tell you and you don't, and that's logical in this debate. But do you want an extraordinary MIR? Yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u30	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u31	Thank you. You'll allow me, Counselor, to begin by asking Mrs. Friend a question. And I'd like you to tell me how many professionals from Catalonia are working in Sergas and how many people from Galicia are working in Catalonia, and then with their answer the same because I can tell you something. [[Applause]] Look, I would also like to thank you, Counselor, that no one has denied that the omicron variant is much more contagious, not that no one is the country, but that we have warned you that this was so, that in Galicia it was found that it had been circulating from the beginning of November — I say in the residual waters of CovidBens — and that it was necessary to take action. And far from that, in October and November, we were here talking about whether they were making contracts for people who were finishing extraordinary contracts for or not, they were going to make half of them, then others were made. That's the reality, that you didn't plan and, once again, you let it happen if things flow alone. You say it's a lighter variant, yes, in what way? But, despite being lighter, there are lots of experts who insist that you don't banalize yourself, because, besides, I have to remind you, Mr. Counsellor, that during the month, this month, 128 Greeks and Welsh died, to whom, just like the 2,893 in general, we have sent them all the encouragement from here; I think it's not to banalize 128 dead people in twenty-four days — it seems to us — the hospitalized people, the ICU, the thousands of people who are in their homes and all who have no shelter and suffer a manifest neglect, Mr. Counsellor. Thousands of people without health care or very precarious, thousands of people without an optional assignment, because those 1,250 TIS are the theory, of course, why do they count? When do you have to cover the one on the side and the other three, all the coupons you haven't assigned? What are we talking about saying that in Galicia there's 1,250 TIS per doctor if this is dynamite and that reality is that there is no more than on paper? I'd like you to be able to assume that this is the case, that you're going back to late diagnoses, that there are lots of people with chronic pathologies totally decompensated for lack of follow-up, or that hospital waiting lists are making people constantly return to primary care and that neglect is manifest. That's the reality you don't talk about once in a while in this parliament, nor does it put any action to address them. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, there are the press headlines, there are the appearances in Parliament, the statistics, and then there's reality. The reality, Counselor, is this is what I just told you. The reality is that we have health centers, as I told you before, in a really chaotic situation. I'm going back to the bottom of mine one more time. Or Rosal, yesterday: one out of three. Hey, one in two. The Guard: three of eight doctors. Listen and O Rosal without pediatrics; the CAP with only one doctor and one ATS; when they have to go to the hospital, two hours without attention, all this population. Liver: absences for months of half of the optional. Repeat it: yesterday, two doctors. The CAP assumes all this demand of the people who don't care for them, of the afternoon consultations they have suspended, self-management, covering each other, going to other health centers for self-management, because there seems to be no one on the wheel in the direction of your councillor, Counsellor. Pediatrics. The situation of pediatrics is equally dramatic. The Coast of Death, the Center of Health of Muxía or Dumbria, without pediatric care for months, with which a boygrower serving four cups. In the county only one pediatrician, he had to cover the service of seven municipalities when there were usually five pediatricians. In the district of Salnés, four pediatricians for months. In ambulances to neglect is manifest. Four people who died in the Morration within a week, who then my partner will ask you about this situation. In mental health, increasing the prevalence of mental health problems exponentially, and you didn't even incorporate a mental health professional, clinical psychologist, into areas. In Santiago and Coruña there's still no professional, not even that liaison professional. That's the situation, Mr. Counsellor, from which the people and professionals want answers, because they have fulfilled their part, to take care of themselves, to vaccinate themselves; the professionals, to give it all: and you don't put any alternative here on the table, absolutely no alternative, Mr. Counsellor. [[Applause]] That's why we urge you again to stop throwing balloons and put out the measurements, which depend on you, which are many. The first is to increase the budget, sir. The second one, they stop playing with numbers and put in place a square identification system, which we know what the staff situation is; they don't continue to play with statistics, because statistics don't solve the problems; what we want to know is what the professionals are, what the situation is, how many are needed, who are given the job, who introduces once and for all those professionals needed in primary care. [[Applause]] They don't have a family doctor. They really include clinical psychologists, 30% of primary consultations have to do with mental health, hire clinical psychologists and stop throwing balloons out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u33	Run those service wallets once, don't say they're already, they've been there for months. Use them so that they can attend to professionals autonomously. There are measures, Mr. Counsellor, there are measures. What you don't want is to put them in place, and keep hidden continuously behind the pandemic situation, behind the crisis, behind what nothing they can do, because — I insist — the roadmap is not to have better public health. That's not the roadmap, because, if you were, you'd be putting these measures that we've been putting on for years, insisting on what you can do, for years, for months, for years, for years, for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u35	...on the top of the table, and you don't want to put any in motion, because that's not your road map. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u36	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u37	Mr. President. Good morning again. Mrs. Prado, the reality is that you say they warned about the omicron, but at the end of November they know that they presented a PNL to extend the hours of the hostel that they later had to withdraw. Those were the warnings. We're going to talk, make things clear, and the actions are shown by the facts. The Government of Spain does not accept the proposal for extraordinary MIR squares to be able to compensate for the retirements of doctors planned for the coming years. And in the meantime, the Socialist Party of Galicia is committed to assuming that Sánchez has created more MIR squares, which completely finance the Union; we have to say everything. We're talking about budgets. The 2022 budgets have a record investment of 62 million euros to take on the formation of all those MIRs that so gracefully grants the Government. And what she's asking is that they let her invest even more money, that they allow us more training to invest more autonomic budget so we can ensure that we're going to have primary specialists in the coming years. The Government of Spain may come to a fee paid, but nevertheless it takes its time, and the 65 new squares requested by the Board will have to wait next year, because this year it was very complex to incorporate them into the MIR. For the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, this is not urgent. It's urgent to say that the board is little, but don't give it any more to form. When you say that Junta is out of shape, I suppose they've known that they've been covering 100% of the family medicine training squares that authorizes the ministry. And I don't know if they know that when they ruled you, in that wonderful Bipartite who did wonders to reform public health, they didn't even cover 65 percent of the training squares offered. Since 2009 the coverage percentage has always been higher than you had when you ruled. Just like emergency medicine, you have to wait and queue like any other, except child psychiatry, with which the ministry could directly process its creation in August, which now cannot be done with emergency medicine. Therefore, since the ministry does not take any measure of shock, the Council of Galicia does take them. The creation of a new more attractive category to capture all MIRs trained in primary specialty and avoid emergency going away, while the ministry remains unable to create these two differentiated training itineraries so that we don't consume primary training squares in forming urgenciologists. And also the empowerment of the health technician figure, of what we've been talking about here, a doctor without a speciality who can help the family doctor in the most bureaucratic medical acts such as casualties or reports. And what did you do to the opposition to these proposals? Amendment to the whole, specific amendment to delete the article in the case of BNG, and vote against the law. In short, we actually have a problem in primary care, but it's not a problem derived from Feijóo's policies, unless you believe that Feijóo's policies affect, as I told you earlier, Asturias or Catalonia. The Government of Spain must take global measures for what is a state problem. It does not take them within the scope of its competence, it makes plans encouraging all communities curiously to take organizational measures that go along the path towards the Union of Galicia. And the organisational measures that the Union is taking to try to tackle this state problem in Galicia that the Government of the State has no solution to, when it brings them to this parliament, the opposition wants to suppress them and vote against them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear what the situation of the management of the pandemic in Galicia is, it is clear what has been done to help solve the situation that lives in primary care and it is clear who is not helping us, and it is clear who directly boycotts as much as he can help. This is the situation we have in Galicia. Counsellor, thank you very much for once again explaining so thoroughly all the measures that are increasing with the development of the Primary Care Improvement Plan, which has continued ahead despite the pandemic, obviously with a superhuman effort by all the professionals working in the Greek Health System, in a unique situation in which we all learned and in which Galicia has managed in an extraordinary way — and there are the data and there are all the measures that you have explained so thoroughly — the reorganization of activity in the centers, taking into account the competences of each professional. We must all be proud of the public health we count on today in Galicia. And as much as in this chamber you hear twisted messages, reality is quite different, and so you have it as a manifesto to the Greek people, who is intelligent and knows how to choose the Government that suits you. From the People's Group we encourage you to continue working and piloting Greek health. We know from his heaviness, his effort, and we are sure that, with work, effort and good management, Galicia will continue to be a point and marking the right path. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u38	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the courthouse, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u39	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, when I did my intervention, I didn't talk about any of the vaccines, I talked about the collective results, I talked about the vaccination campaign, and I remember that it was you who said I was complaining that they weren't coming. What put your finger in the chaga, as it were in some way, was you. Look, we did what we had to do at that time, which was to say that Galicia didn't receive the same vaccines as another autonomous community, and we said it in public and in private, and we said it where we had to say it. It was precisely someone who wasn't in that interterritorial council that, reading some of the supposed acts, said that we supported the thing and then did another. Then it's not true, Mr. Torrado. We ask Galicia to receive the same doses as the most received community. Because that's our obligation and why we are paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, to defend the interests of the Greeks, and that's why we argue that Galicia had received the same vaccines — no less — than the community it receives most. [[Applause]] And three weeks ago we asked the ministry to let us continue to vaccinate, because it was proven that vaccinating for old fringes was good, as they are now doing the rest of autonomous communities. That's the two incidences on the vaccines that I didn't talk about in my intervention and that you pulled out the collation. Of course we're delighted to be able to vaccinate and vaccinate our professionals. I have no interest in putting any vaccine. I find myself putting on the media, the structure and the organization for the Greeks to be quoted, go to the massive points with a high degree of satisfaction and the workers do their work in the brightest way they do it. That's our job, and not mine, that of the vaccination coordinators, the health area managers, and also, by the way, all volunteer people, members of the fairs, who are working, in many cases selflessly, to achieve that collective success. At no time in my intervention -- I insist -- I wanted to put that -- well, you might look a little bit like it, but, of course, it wasn't my intention. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think vaccination was an important process. If I talked about vaccination for a matter. Immunization in Galicia was done without primary care. It was a strategic decision, highly criticized by the truth. I remember a mayor who said that why we didn't vaccinate in all the municipalities, that it was that we had to move 50 kilometers to a point of massive vaccination; of course, the problem was that there was a problem of heavy traffic in that enclosure and I wouldn't assume it. But I repeat and we insist on the massive points precisely because we were clear that primary attention should be preserved in that process. We only went to primary care in the 80s and with some difficulty at the end, so we quickly decided to leave that model and rely on the massive points. As we're talking about the primary care burden here today, I talked about vaccination for two reasons: because vaccination is downloading primary care and hospital care from these serious effects, which fortunately make many of them go through with this disease but with a very mild situation. I insist that Galicia has the methods of vaccination, and that's probably why the hospital impact of this wave is the least in the state. All over the Spanish state, the autonomous community that since the start of this wave, even since it ended the previous one that linked with this -- the delta -- and started the current one, Galicia has always been in the last place of hospital occupation, both conventional and ICU. That's probably due to that high level of vaccination of the first and second dose, and also surely due to the high degree of strength doses that we're achieving among all of us. But — I insist — he insisted on this matter because it was also a strategic issue. When other autonomous communities at the beginning of the children's vaccination decided to start in the health centers -- and they also announced: we're going to the health centers -- we said no. We opened the massive centers again, not without effort, and we vaccinated in three days all the doses that came back to us on December 10th. Let's put all the doses back in the second and third, too, all of them -- I insist -- not to overburden primary care. Like many of the measures we have discussed here today, including Mrs Prado, the last amendment to the protocol. It's a protocol adjusted, first, to the characteristics of omicron, of course, but also adjusted to reduce that incidence in primary care. You know that close contacts earlier had to be called daily, in this case by the military, who were the ones who did it; that job took them off, and the military could also be calling positive cases. Close contacts required a PCR test even if they were vaccinated and that PCR test was removed; it was no longer required because that test required it in the primary care center primarily. I mean, a lot of action has been taken in the protocol, first because of the mildness of the pathology, and, secondly, to download it. Well, actually, the omicron variant is discovered on November 24 in South Africa. How can anyone say he was already in Galicia in early November? I know that someone says it, but it's not true; the omicron variant is discovered on November 24 and in Galicia sequenced — which is the way of identifying variants — on December 8th, not in Galicia, in Spain. The first sequencing of omicron in Spain is done at the Vigo Microbiology Service with an accredited machine, approved and mapping with an international omicron variant database. So if anyone says they've already seen her in waste water — or where she was — at the beginning of November, because maybe we have to check her to work with us even more in that detection. [[Applause]] The omicron variant — we said — arrived in Galicia on December 8, we made a detailed follow-up of all those cases of that first case, we monitored the severity of the pathology of this group of people who were growing up. And, as we said, it was from December 20 when we started to notice those effects so high in the number of contagions. So far I want to insist that they were lowering the cases in Galicia and even lowering the hospital occupation. Well, they passed us in Galicia as in the rest of the state, some communities started before; and from there, we took the measures that seemed reasonable at that time, and I think they were well taken, even the measures that were taken to diminish as far as possible those contacts, especially in the field of the End of the Year. So we continue to work at that time to shorten these effects. We still have 3,134 more professionals in the public health system than in 2019. We've increased the number of people working with us in 3,000 professionals. It's not true, there are 3,134 people working with us more than in 2019, that's a reality even though you don't like it. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] We also continue to strengthen primary care with more optional and more resources. You tell me the budget will tell the squares. I make you another challenge, Mr. Torrado: tell me the budget this year for primary care in chapter I and tell me the budget of the year 2009, the budget, not the squares. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The budget, the budget in chapter I is less? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. It's 100 million more. And this year about last year in chapter I, 5.5 million more. It's just that reality is terrible, it's terrible. You go to the budget and tell me if there's no 5.5 million euros anymore this year. You like to say, no, this year the low primary budget. Yes, it goes down -- I said it before and I say it again -- in the hideous fund and in the construction of health centres, that's where it goes down. But in chapter I it goes up 5.5 and goes down in the infrastructure chapter, because there's no fund I'm covering this year, so it goes down. You know that well, but they like to say that primary care is low in their budget, and they say there are fewer squares. It's a lie, there's more squares, more budgeted, and only goes down in the hidden fund for works. Yes, I know you might be upset too. There's 1,250 TIS per optional in Galicia, it's the average, it's the average, but it's the same average as if you click on Castela-León, where it goes far higher. Or it's the number in that State Government primary care action plan of 2019, and what you just presented right now, which speaks of 1,500. It's the same measuring system, there are no two measuring rods to know how many professionals, how many TIS per optional we have to have. Obviously, we're missing doctors. We've said that and we've been saying it for some time: there's no possibility of hiring substitute family doctors, because there's not, there's very few, and the few -- I insist -- we devote them to the work that we consider most important, which is the coverage of the CAP. And that's where our greatest effort goes, to cover the CAP so that all citizens have a guaranteed primary emergency care. And I have to say that even in this variant -- which has come to have over 1,400 professionals infected with the Galician Health Service -- not one single CAP of the nearly 100 we have on our wide network has never been covered. That's a fact that's there, irrefutable. Would we like no doctor to miss any shifts? Well, of course I do, but the reality is that not one of the CAPs has lost. And then in the health centers, most of the health centers would have no implications. It was spoken here, and above all out here, of the famous 14 Vigo health centers. Look, you know -- and if you don't know, you should know -- that these centers, one, didn't close -- why do you talk about closure? -- didn't the health centers shut down. Two, they treated patients practically the same as they always did. You know -- or you should know -- that what was done was to block overdemand. In these 14 centres the ordinary consultations of these optional ones were conducted without any incidence, an average of 35 consultations per optional of those 14 centres in that period — which, by the way, were three days: on day 4, on day 5 and on day 7 December, and on day 10 was no longer that measure. I repeat: a measure that allowed all ordinary patients scheduled to be seen in these health centers, all of them, and that made some professionals overdemand able to apply a criterion of only responding to emergencies or derived from covid. A measure, in addition, that they asked for their own professionals and that was agreed with them. What do you want to do with this? Once again, say: dismantling, closing. I've heard many members of the political parties talk about closing health centers, and even some mayor. No health centers have been closed. Stop cheating, stop manipulating. No health centers have been closed. Not even at the moment of the incidence of the most transmissible variant we have seen in the last two years, with the largest number of health professionals infected and with the greatest workload, not a single center has been closed. And this is not the merit of this counselor or this councillor, it is the merit of the workers who have done this work. [[Applause]] Stop implicated in a sin that did not exist. I repeat: most of them — as can also be seen in a statement in the media — were those who asked for this measure. It is a measure which, on the other hand, is taken on certain occasions, especially during vacation periods. And — as Mrs. Friend well said — took, for example, the Government of Cantabria not three days, the whole month of January. Today, Cantabria's primary care centers continue with this measure. Therefore, it must not be so extraordinary to take it. But — I repeat — in Galicia only those 14 centers and under those conditions, paying attention to ordinary care. You tell me we have to strengthen mental health. I don't know why we came here and said we had 99 professionals in the Mental Health Plan. They don't count, do they? And those professionals who are also in primary care don't count either. They're not in primary care, they're elsewhere. We have 7 psychologists linking primary care to hospital care, Mrs Prado, 7.1 per health area. And we've got optional liaison in hospital care, too. We have mental health units, we have suicide units, 99 professionals. Could it be more? Yes, of course there could be a lot more, but for now there are 99 out of 120. Well, I — I insist — have come here today to tell the situation, first of all, that we are now living in the public health of Galicia, the measures that have been set in motion — not now but throughout the pandemic — to protect primary care as far as possible. I insist: basically, vaccination, protocol adjustment, is always done with maximum transparency. I will once again claim here the model of data from the Germans, which has always put the data on the table, absolutely all, the active cases that were incorporated and that ceased to be active at fourteen days and now at ten, or the cases of self-tests declared positive. I've also talked about our own measures, which depend on us, such as those 331 most primary care professionals of the 2019-2021 primary care plan, with 80 other family doctors. That bet by the nurses of family and community medicine, who, as Mrs. Friend rightly said, now the Government of Spain is beginning to say that they have to be implanted; I insist: here are not only the ones but they already have a place in property. Also claim this mental health plan, so fundamental in the field of primary care. Continuity contracts, which were so criticised in this parliament and which had the possibility both in the medical and nursing fields of making stable contracts, so that people might not be renewing those contracts that are so disgusted and that I do not like them either, of course; I would like everyone to be long contracts. Tools such as the demand management system, which also includes the Ministry's action plan, tools to manage demand and adapt it to professionals in each category; of course we believe in the other categories: in the nurse — of course — in the social worker, in the psychologists of mental health units, and of course also in the PSX, which we believe can and are playing a fundamental role. In this sense, insist on the tools we put in communication for citizens, that tool of CRM 100, which is already implemented in forty health centers. And, well, we'll keep working to train more doctors. If the fundamental problem we have is that there are no specialists, one of our main tasks must be to try to train more. And we will insist on the ministry so that as soon as we can believe all the squares we ask. And as far as your question is concerned, I will not escape it, Mr. Torrado. We want an extraordinary call from MIR squares. We told the ministry — I insist — in June that, if you did the things quickly and well among all, in this exam on January 29th — next week — these 60 places could be incorporated. No, no, it's an extraordinary call from MIR squares. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you ask me what I want, I say: an extraordinary call from MIR squares. Option one: put it in this call; the Government decided not to. Option two: to whom you want the ministry, to whom you want it. What we want is that, as soon as possible, these specialists can start to form, because the sooner they start to form, the sooner they start to form they're here. If the ministry decides that, instead of waiting for the next call within a year, it can do some before, Galicia will not pose any problems. Galicia gave him the opportunity to call them on the next week's exam and the ministry said he didn't have the ability to review the squares that autonomous communities asked him to do. So that ball of belief is in the ministry and at the moment it hasn't come down from that roof; when it goes down, we'll finish, which is to place the corresponding budget and form. We've already taken the first step, which is to convince many professionals -- and from here I recognize that effort -- where they were not being trained to take one step forward to form 65 more, almost twice as much as we had. That effort of our professionals for wanting to be tutors and having teaching units was not accompanied by the ministry, which decided to wait a little longer to believe them and wait next year. Too bad, they could have done it before and they didn't. Your reasons will be. [[Applause]] In any case, we will continue to insist on that point. We will also continue to insist that the accreditation criteria of the units need to be relaxed, we have to be able to train doctors resident in units of two or three optionals. They have to spend more time in primary care and not so much time in hospital. Well, all the measures — as I say — we have already moved him to the ministry, and of course we will be willing to discuss with them what they think is appropriate to improve in that sense. Meanwhile, the measures that depend on us, two fundamentals, apart from the squares we have already incorporated and those that we are incorporating: that category of optional primary care specialist, which we will soon draw, oriented that when the MIRs this year end the primary is something attractive to them and most of them stay in primary care; and those health technicians, who, as I said, ended yesterday the period of joining the recruitment lists, just as they are doing now the retirees. By the way, we are the autonomous community that most retirees have hired for a long time. First of all, we're the few who have retired, because there are many who haven't hired them, and those who have hired them, from far away to the most hired. And thank these professionals again that step they took forward for putting a hand. Put a hand on tasks in which Galicia has already moved forward by creating or re-entering that figure of the health technician, to precisely collaborate in these health work itself, but that they do not need a specialist in family and community medicine, which, as it is clear, is our main problem right now. I insist: we'll keep working. I am sure that we will also count on the support of the parliamentary groups, each as far as possible, to try to get primary care, not now in this wave, which will come down, but it is also true that there may be other subsequent ones, and we must continue to work to free primary care doctors and professionals from these administrative bureaucratic health tasks with the tools we are commenting on, supporting us — yes — in non-presentative care. Let's not say again that one hundred percent of the attention has to be present. The population does not want that; the population wants to activate a recipe with a phone call or a message, if it is a chronic drug renewal. What do we want, everyone going to the health center to hang there in the door with the carp before they renew? Well, if we can simply renew your medication, why don't we, for God's sake? We will continue to work on that line, as it has been doing Galicia for a long time, telemonitoring the patients in their homes without making them go to the health center, using all the tools, using the caregivers' figure, of course, fundamental, using the residences; working so that primary care is primarily devoted to what brings value and that, indeed, as you collect the Primary Care vertebrate plan is not the entry door, as I said before, but the fundamental vertebrate axis of health care. In that sense, from the Council and the Council, we will continue to work on that line and, of course, I will come to realize the situation every time I think it is appropriate and every time it is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u40	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to item 2 of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Union of Galicia regarding early attention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u41	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u42	Thank you, President. In the past full, the Socialist Group called on the Social Policy Adviser on a fundamental resource for children aged between 0 and 6 years, such as early attention. Fundamental to prevent a deficit in development and also to deal with it, because the health of the affected children's population depends to a large extent on this service. This service is largely unknown to most citizens, but it is vital to that 11 percent of the child population from 0 to 6 years old that is expected to have evolutionary problems, in physical or cognitive health or in development itself. We are not talking about spending — I want to make it clear — but about investing and saving future resources and preventing the health of these minors. It's a service that works directly not only with minors, but also with their families, in coordination with their own pediatricians, children's schools, schools, social services, etc., in a multidisciplinary and transversal vision. As citizens' representatives, we also have the duty not only to work on this issue, but also to make it known to Greek citizenship the vital importance that certain issues have, because we will also be able to raise awareness about the set of citizenship that can best be unknown to this type of resource, but that once we know it is perfectly conscious and has enough empathy to know that we cannot miss out on such an important resource as this one. That is why in the priority scale it is clear that, regardless of the political group we represent, we all have the health of minors as a matter of priority in that priority scale for our policies and society itself. At a time when Galicia received more resources from the State than ever before and which possesses the greatest capacity for spending than ever, it is time to invest in what really matters: in early attention, among other matters. But investing not in any way, but with knowledge of the matter, with knowledge of this case, and with knowledge also responsibly so that you can optimize and maximize the benefits of these resources. Studies indicate that the Danish population is around eleven percent of children between 0 and 6. So, depending on this and starting from this, we're going to have to distribute and optimize resources to achieve the common goal, which is to reach all the children who need early attention. In Galicia — as you know — there are wait times of even a year. And access to the service shows a clear territorial inequality, which shows that there is no equal accessibility to the service for all children in Galicia. That's why we have to work on it, because this can't be allowed to continue to happen. And if we talk about early attention, it will always be based on the premise of the child's superior interest, a sine qua condition will not be made to be of immediate and accessible use once it is prescribed by the optional, in this case Pediatrics, or requested through the families. Because the fact that waiting lists delay access to the service to minors may cause a loss in their own health, in their faculties, or a loss in their own development of the child who needs it. And we can't afford that. And of course, go ahead, that we value that early attention in Galicia has experienced a steady growth in recent years, but not enough when compared to the rest of the autonomous communities. In other words, like Catalonia or Cantabria, for example, without going further, they are already paying attention to that 11 percent of the population from 0 to 6 years demanding this service, and not necessarily because of their own investment capacity, which is also, rather, by the way of investing, by the orderly and efficient way of using their own resources to optimize the results. Let us not forget that Galicia is the autonomous community that least invests per capita potentially dependent. We're starting at a disadvantage in this matter. That's why we need to have a positive discrimination when we talk about these kinds of issues, and especially when we talk about the opportunities and equal opportunities that we bring to the children. And if in the past full we were talking about, for example, the Conso-Frieiras Commonwealth, the minors who are out of service seven months a year, on this occasion we can talk about Sarria, where the early-care service recruitment process has been suspended cautiously, which leaves families and children themselves without service. What should make us reflect on a question: the need to reconceptualize the planning and dimensioning of the service, as well as the conditions of the service itself in the long term and over the time of service itself in Galicia. The Greek Government must immediately articulate the mechanism that enables and guarantees service with stability over time, and not in an annual and periodic manner as it has so far, since the consequences of the interruption of the service derived from these issues invalidate the benefits of early attention itself, and we cannot allow any fault in this matter. So we urgently need to study these kinds of issues and develop a planning strategy based on the population of the target population. We have to really know what the Danish population we want to attend to and, depending on that, redistribute our own resources to maximize the benefits. After our proposal, the Council indicated that it would cover 100 percent of the cost, which up until now was 90%, and this is, of course, an important step, and we thank of course for accepting some of our proposals. But we would like to go one step further, because we have to move towards providing long-term fiscal and functional stability, to shield the personnel's own service and maintenance and the use of their expertise. The same way that, by setting an example, we wouldn't understand moving to a surgeon year after year or, for example, changing their own contractual conditions periodically, with timely attention, the same thing happens. We can't vary their own conditions year after year. We can't ignore that talent that is formed, that human capital that is acquired over time when we have long-term services, and on such an important issue, because we're talking about direct work with minors and families of minors who are vulnerable, who have problems in their development. So we have to shield this issue, and especially the professionals, to provide them with that extra training that can be done with stable contracts in time, not in a regular and renewable way on an annual basis. We have to go to a multi-year service that doesn't depend and that can shield these professional conditions, of course, for the benefit of children. For this reason, one, it is essential to guarantee the universality of the right to early care, equity and equal opportunities through the implementation in coordination with the Fegamp of a plan to extend the community services of early attention, to cover that 11 percent of the target population from 0 to 6 years old who needs this resource and that is our goal. Two, reviewing the current financing model supporting the Network of Community care services will be speeding up through annual grants and changing to a new multi-annual model and facilitating the training of professionals with a powerful training plan and the consolidation of their own necessary equipment and the continued assistance of support for children and families. Third, to optimize the profitability of investment and coverage, always geared and adapted always to the target target population, thereby eliminating the direct costs and also indirect costs that families now have, and ensuring the proximity of resources to the living places of their families. We have to optimize investment to escape asymmetries of resources. And fourth, and no less important, studying the needs of care will postulate that families are demanding so much. But starting from a premise: precisely early attention has that name, "time," because it focuses on the first years of life, given that especially the period from 0 to 3 years is critical to taking advantage of that brain plasticity that you have in those years, and that then exists for attention, after 6 years, resources, that we have, but we have to adapt them — because for minors we don't even have the same circumstances as twenty or thirty years ago — to the new times, and, of course, to shield and put at the focus of the question child's mental health. It's very important because the mental health of children and adolescents in our country is being resented and we have worrying data, and we have to act immediately because it's a key issue. Betting on prevention in early childhood, as I said at first, -- it's not a expense, it's the best investment a society can make. One of the key indicators of optimal results is preventive work, so in the long term it will be a saving. But it's not worth investing without planning adapted to the affected population. The Greek Government must order its own resources so that they can make the most of it or be optimized. Every effort that can determine well-being and health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u44	...of the children and the children of Greece is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We, from BNG, are going to vote in favour of this motion. And go ahead and we've brought in more recently, without spending a lot of time, initiatives in this same sense. In fact, we are in favour of an agreement last November in Commission 5 with the aim of strengthening and expanding the European Network of Early Care, in order to ensure the maintenance, reinforcement and maintenance of a fundamental service, which, as has already been said, addresses children between 0 and 6 years of age who have development disorders. It is an interdepartmental network — we say so — or it is crossed by three areas of government: Education, Health and Social Policy, which is where the Socialist Party focused on this case with this early community care service. There are thirty-nine units in total throughout Galicia that serve about one thousand seven hundred children. Mrs Ortega was faking that the prevalence — we say — of these developmental disorders in the population as a whole under six years old is located in Galicia — she said — between eleven percent and ten percent of the population. Those numbers tell us we're on a level of attention very below what should be the objectives of any government. In a clearer way: we have a network that is still insufficient today, although, of course, Mrs Ortega said so, it has been expanding in recent years. It was created in fact from 2009, between 2009 and 2013 mainly. But the goal must be to expand and strengthen it to guarantee that fundamental right of any child or child in our country with developmental disorder to see how they receive the therapies or treatments they need in order to guarantee them a decent quality and living conditions, because we're talking about children and children. And there are many degrees that we can find in these developmental disorders, but in many cases we will receive this early attention, these treatments agilely in the early years of their lives, can guarantee them better or worse living conditions, not only in the immediate but in the future. We're talking about being able to guarantee living conditions and autonomy for children themselves and for children themselves, which gives us a little bit the magnitude of what we're talking about. And the three principles that must be rejected — so as to be taken into account in the decrees governing the Early Care Network — always in the deployment of these early care services are — Mrs Ortega said — universality, decentralization and proximity, that is, you don't have to travel 70, 80, 100 or 150 kilometers in order to receive a speech therapy or therapy care you need. And a fundamental issue for us, for BNG, is prevention. I mean, the sooner they get these treatments and they can enter those early care services, the better the diagnosis — I insist — and better living conditions will have in the immediate future and especially in the future. And that prevention and universality are not being fulfilled, because there are waiting lists that go beyond the year. This also depends very much on the geographic area of what we're talking about, which also gives us a good account of the disadvantages or lack of equity in access to services, depending on whether you live in rural or urban areas, the Atlantic axis or the interior of the country. I brought two cases and we spoke to them at your own time in the commission. I bring two very similar cases where it is clearly seen that there is insufficient: one is the district of Arousa and the other is the region of the Navy. Today they have very limited resources to meet the population they have to cover. In the case of the Navy, for example, at the end of 2021, we had more than thirty girls and children under 6 years of age who were treated with sentences by two specialists. They know units have to have three professionals, but they can't cover the casualties because the grant they're funded doesn't provide for those casualties. The third one, therefore, was on his way down and he couldn't work. And they attend -- I insist -- 13 children of eleven municipalities who have more than two thousand eight hundred children and children between 0-6 years of age. This is absolute precariousness, both in the working conditions of the professionals and also in the children and children of families who are users of these early care services. And in the case of the Arousa unit, which is also a very interesting early attention unit -- and I say very interesting because it was created by the Galaga Association of Temperá Care -- that unit made up of four professionals serves seventy families in the region. And there are many of them waiting for months at those waiting lists to be able to access a service that is clearly -- I insist -- insufficient for the percentage of population under six years that is potential user of the service itself. This, in addition, has been greatly aggravated by the pandemic of the coward-19. The teams were not strengthened, despite the protocols that had to be applied by the prevention of coward-19 what they did was to add even more to the waiting lists, and not only because of the difficulty of accessing their own early-care service, but because every time a user passed there was after cleaning up everything, and that slowed down a lot the number of people who could be cared for in one day or a single week. I insist that these equipments were in no way reinforced during the pandemic. And this situation leaves us with almost one way out, which is to go to private to receive that attention and those treatments that children need. He said in response to the inquiry the counselor that she was putting herself on the skin of a mother or a father who sees how, to the moment of birth, her daughter or her son does not evolve as she should evolve in a normal way. Actually, any one of us here can put ourselves in that mother's skin or that father's skin, those families. And now let's imagine that you live in a situation of economic precariousness, which is quite normal for a lot of families in our country, and have to take a surcharge of 300 or 400 euros for going to receive these treatments to the private because there's a waiting list or a precaution in the service of your county or county that makes it impossible for them to access it through the public. This also results in discrimination by territory, location, economic discrimination, which is from any unacceptable point of view. And it also goes against the best interests of the child and the right of universal access to a service, which — I insist — is fundamental for children under the age of 6 in our country. This is about precariousness and waiting lists and service failure. But there is another element that for us is the most important of the motion presented today by the Socialist Party, which goes a little further than we have formulated just over a month ago in Commission 5a, and which has to do with the need to reformulate the financing model of these early-care community services and which has to do with overcoming those subsidies which from any point of view are not useful to ensure stability and continuity in the provision of service and stability in the case of staff. It was a specific case, of this Conso-Frieiras Commonwealth, which brings together the municipalities of Gudina, Viana, Conso Vilarindo, Riós, Mezquita and Manzaneda, which is only running five months a year, and in addition to that which it does between June 4 and October 31, that is, in the summer months, which is when families often don't even even live in their own municipality. I suppose there's no bad intention on the part of any council. And the explanation given in the Government that last year in 2021 this service was to support this service was because the cost of maintenance in the months until the renewal of that grant was inescapable for so small municipalities. In fact, to support a unique and exclusive service with the own resources that have small municipalities in the interior of the country, we talk about comarcas in the province of Ourense, but we could talk about anyone else in Lugo or in Coruña, or in Pontevedra, it's impossible. So we must not only walk towards this multi-annuality of what Mrs Ortega was talking about, but change the financing system and replace those subsidies with another which gives greater stability to staff and, above all, continuity to service, and help, of course. Because it is a responsibility of the Greek Government, it is the competence of the Greek Government, and not a municipal jurisdiction, the maintenance of these services. We are going to vote in favour, and with a fundamental objective, that is to guarantee the rights of children and children who have a disorder in their development in our country, the children who have it today, and those who can have it in the future. Because we're not talking about a minor issue, but about the living conditions that they're going to have right away, but, above all, the living conditions that they're going to have when they're adults. They can have greater autonomy and greater well-being throughout their lives if they receive that attention they deserve in the first few years. And that's a fundamental right and a human right. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u48	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, this fresh morning in this parliament. I want to start my intervention by highlighting some coincidences, because I think some have to be. And I think we can all agree on at least two points. The first, in the convenience of perfecting the attention of children and children with special needs through the permanent improvement of the Early Warning Network of the Galician Network. And one second, which I believe we will all agree that this common objective will be closer if there is a sincere and constructive dialogue among all the actors involved in this task, particularly in the parliamentary groups represented here. I would therefore like to thank you for avoiding the trials of intent on which the purposes of each of us are on this subject. I assume that everyone we're here wants the best for those kids and kids. I assume we're all able to put ourselves in those mothers' skin and those parents, who were mentioned earlier, who detect that their son needs special support. And I would appreciate the reciprocity in that treatment, because I believe that we all want the same. And from that base of common trust, if I may, we all put forward the proposals that each one of us believes best to improve this situation. Mrs Ortega herself acknowledged that we have incorporated some of the suggestions that have been made, because, in fact, if reasonable proposals are made, the logic is to incorporate them and try to work on those lines of improvement. But whenever we assume that the difference that we may have, the discrepancies that may exist with respect to the management model and which is the most appropriate management model to manage this or any other theme, we have just talked about the topic of health, because it doesn't mean that no one has any hidden interests or agendas or anything like that. I therefore believe that since that mutual agreement, the last thing I would like to thank is that we have reached an agreement, as we did last December on this particular issue, because we loyally assume and monitor its compliance in view of reasonable deadlines. Because I sincerely believe that since last December 17 we have reached that agreement of what Mrs. Rodil was talking about — and I read the agreement: "The Parliament urges the Galician Council to strengthen and expand the Greek network of attention early by providing it with the necessary resources so that all children and children up to 6 years of age with a disorder in their development can receive the therapies they need. And for this purpose this strengthening of the early-care network must be properly budgeted and scheduled"—for it has not given us time to accomplish it, nor has it given us time to fail. Let's give the Union a reasonable deadline so that it can budget and heat these measures. Because I think the engagement of Joine must be out of the question. The truth is that this commitment to early attention is more evident than evident, more evident from the arrival of Alberto Núñez Feijóo to the Government of Greece, as the fact that over all these years, early care resources will have multiplied exponentially. And far from lowering that level of commitment, Parliament has very recently approved the Greek budget for this year 2022, which contains the greatest investment in early attention to Galicia's history, more than six million euros. I'd like these two assertions that I just made a little context. Look: in 2009, when this president, this government reached the Government of Galicia, in Galicia, there were already two units of early attention; today there are thirty-three. The municipalities that served those two units were fourteen; today there are one hundred and forty-five. And the children then attended in 2009 were 160 against the more than 2,000 currently being cared for. So we've increased by more than five hundred percent the units of early care, increased by more than nine hundred percent the coverage of the municipalities, and increased by more than one thousand fifty percent the children who receive this type of attention. And this doesn't mean that needs are filled, it's not a triumphalism exercise; it doesn't mean that we don't have to keep improving; it doesn't mean that we're satisfied. But if I believe that it clearly shows commitment and denies some exacerbated criticisms, and serves as an incentive to keep moving forward, because that is what we want, because the Union is aware of the need to keep moving forward. So, also this year, it has radically increased the budget, showing that attention to these children from 0 to 6 years old with specific needs continues to be a priority for this government. This is shown, firstly, because of the 3.6 million dedicated to the 2021 budget for early attention, this year 2022 we went to 6.2 million; we nearly doubled the budget. Mrs. Ortega said that Galicia isn't the communities that spend the most, on the contrary, it's in such a ratio, and it has to spend more and be more efficient. I think we can argue if we have to spend more. Obviously, it's obvious, that's why we're doing it, that's why we're increasing in such an important way that budget. But it's better, it's more difficult. Because you have often quoted here the report, right?, of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, which is what ratifys that claim that Galicia is at the bottom of the commitment of resources to social services. But that same report — and you do not mention it — points out that Galicia is the most efficient community in the use of resources in social services. I don't say, tell him the directors and managers of social services in Spain. Therefore, I believe that the Greeks will like to know that Galicia is the best-invested community in every euro dedicated to social services. And for us that efficiency is a reason for pride, because, in fact, what the Greeks have to know is that every euro they give to the Galician Union, every euro they put in the management responsibility of the Greek Government is an efficient managed euro; better than any other Spanish autonomous community. And I'm proud of that. [[Applause]] In another matter, I remember that the Government of Spain itself recognises that we have the most inclusive educational system in all of Spain. So I think the level of commitment of the German Government is more than obvious. What surprises me is that the Socialist Group is now calling for an increase in budget for early attention when that increase has not been part of its priorities during the recent budgetary approval procedure. I told Mrs Ortega that this is a matter of priorities and that this issue had to be placed at the top of the priority scale. I have here the social expenditure amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, and there is no amendment relating to early attention, none. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows the House a three-size leaflet.]] I don't criticise him. BNG did not present the amendment either. But I understand — and it seems reasonable to understand this — that is because they considered the increase to be very important and therefore this issue was covered for this year. What I don't understand is that at the same time we need to increase the budget, but we don't formally request that increase in the budget. Or it's not a priority, or simply, honestly, I think it's a case of flagrant incoherence, because your priority in these amendments was investment in equipment, which you usually call "the brick," and here there are day centers, residential homes, rehabilitation of centers, equipment for children's schools. All this is, but early attention wasn't part of the priorities, it's not a problem. I sincerely believe that we can all agree that the economic allocation for early attention this year 2022 is substantially higher than previous years and is therefore more than covered. The other question that surprises me is that in a service that is planned, contained in the Dependency Act, that we should fund 50% of the communities, the State is focusing on the Galician Union, which provides 70% of the cost of this service, while still silent on the responsibility of the State, which provides 30%. And I would ask — and I sincerely tell you — that you do not understand this as a partisan criticism, because I have no drawback in recognizing the improvement that Mr. Pedro Sánchez's Government has made in relation to dependency financing: I do not recognize much merit from the Government, and this I have no drawback — believe me — to recognize it. But I think this situation, this mathematical reality that I just related, should lead us to an important reflection. Look: the most important budget in terms of spending on Spain's history, only gives the State to contribute 30% of the cost of financing the Dependent Law in Galicia. This has to lead us to worry, because what's going to happen in the next budgets? Because we all assumed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u50	...at the national and international level — already mentioned, President — that budgets will come with the greatest contraction in expenditure; we all know that. And that has to lead us to wonder what the future is that will suffer the financing of the Dependency Act. It opens up many unknowns, it certainly opens uncertainties. And what I can say is that this group in the face of these uncertainties what you're going to do is put your trust in the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u52	...that has so far shown commitment, prudence, and ability and planning to solve a problem that needs everyone's commitment, but that cannot be solved with magic solutions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor for the motion's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u54	Thank you, President. I don't know if the spokesperson for the People's Party is well informed, but from the Socialist Group, logically, in line with our proposals, we are focusing on the amendment of additional budgets to the budget. Here you are for the Early Warning Network, with 4 million extras, that whenever you want, I'll show you, in case you're not aware of it. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows the House a leaflet with text.]] [[Applause]] He's also talking about exacerbated criticism. I don't know if I've expressed myself well, I may have made a mistake, but far from it we're from the Socialist Group. We want to do the opposite, we want to make proposals. And they have to change their chip. It cannot be that every time a parliamentary group brings a proposal — which we are here for, for that, it puts us in citizenship — and more on such sensitive matters, that it is taken as an attack on the Government, as a criticism. Because that's why we're, if not, what do we paint in the opposing groups on the benches? That's what we're for. This is the map where we clearly observe a territorial imbalance in early-care resources. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero exposes a map of Galicia in colors.]] And here we can see the early-care community services, the consolidated in 2021. Here, logically, on the Greek map the territorial imbalance we have in this matter. That's why the resources have been increased, but how? This is the subject we have to deal with. How are these resources increased? How are we investing resources in such sensitive areas? For we may have to reorganize and be able to optimize these resources so that we can reach all the children who need it, which in the end is the issue. Because then, as a result of that territorial imbalance, we are also involved in the media: "Waiting for up to nine months for early-hospital child therapy." As well, as in times of waiting, but then also in terms of territorial imbalance: "Suspend the recruitment process of the Early Care Service of Sarria." [[Mrs. Ortega Otero reads to the House a text from a leaflet.]] Also mayors of Arbo and Crescent have to process again the service that must be shared between the three municipalities, and they textually point out to the families of the three municipalities: "They manifested their concern yesterday because of the surprising interruption of the Early Warning Service, argued that it affects them very much, because we are talking about minors with difficulties, mostly with autistic spectrum, who need to work with them uninterruptedly, since they are particularly vulnerable children." [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows the House a photocopy.]] So, here's more examples and we could... well, I don't have time to quote them. But it's true that it's a question that shows -- the media are so showing -- that it has to be reviewed, that it has to be reconceptualized, and that it has to make resources available, but in an orderly manner. That is why, of course, what we have to optimize, we have to review the financing model. And, of course, there has been an agreement, but it is not enough that agreement, because we need to review this financing model so that we achieve the multi-annuality that is required in order to ensure contractual stability and stability of our own services and equipment, which guarantee and maximize the capacities of these children. That, in the end, we are conditioning the future of these minors, and we can't spare a single resource, nor do we have time, nor do we have work to optimize this service. Because not known for most of the population doesn't mean it's less important. We also have to eliminate the direct and indirect costs that I was commenting on as well. And as direct costs, we can set the example of displacements, but as indirect ones, we can also set these women as examples, because most of them are mothers, who have to leave work out for incompatibility. But also what we were talking about in previous interventions, which, in the end, also for children, is done what is needed, of course, how to leave work and even without resources to seek the way in which it is to go to a service in private because we don't have it at our disposal. That's why we have to optimize the resources, which are actually being put on the table, but optimized to squeeze them to the fullest and reach all the minors who need it. And to continue to work with the minors in the care will be postwar, which is a topic that we have to talk about, because there are existing resources that are optimized and coordinated between them, you can guarantee this that is what families are asking for. And, indeed, — I repeat — let us focus on the question of the mental health of minors. After the pandemic, as you know, he resented it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u56	...—Finished, president—and mental health units infantewuvenil must be priority. The Greek Government must now put the resources and the time and the head on this issue, create the device depending on the population of the target, as I said at first. And the fundamental indicators of optimal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u58	...preventive work always in early childhood will give positive results and will be a saving in the future. Let's not escape because it's the fairest and most consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the mobilization of the empty housing stock
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u60	A amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u61	Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u62	Good morning to all and to all. In Galicia we have a great paradox that should at least make us reflect on all of them. On the one hand, we have very bad emancipation data, because in this country four out of every ten young people aged between 30 and 34 cannot be emancipated; we have the second worst emancipation rate in the whole state, only behind the Canary Islands. And at the same time, in this country almost one in five of the homes we have are empty. How is it possible that we have those figures, almost of the worst emancipation, and at the same time lead the empty housing ranking? How is it possible today in cities like Vigo to pay for up to €3,000 more a year than five years ago, at the same time that there are nearly 20,000 empty homes in that city alone? And we should also ask ourselves: where does this model take us in the medium term? what future projections can we do with this data in hand? It's easy to know where we're going because we're seeing it every day, when young people have so much difficulty in getting to cost a living and they're forced to put on stand by other important vital projects, which go from the academic point of view, where, for example, a lot of people compromise their studies because they can't afford rent, they compromise professional projects and also other vital projects like being able to form a family. These affect in the first person all those young people who suffer from it, but they also have other social consequences that come between us and all of us. This, therefore, is not a minor problem. The difficulties in access to housing today are robbing the future of the younger generation, but they are also impoverishing and making society more unequal tomorrow. And in the meantime in Galicia there are 300,000 houses closed and empty. But in addition, we should also ask ourselves what territorial model we are building when one in five housings is unused. From the immediate past we inherited a rural exodus that left behind a lot of empty dwellings that fade and a heritage that we should not lose. But we are currently engaged in a process of dislocation of the centres of attraction of the population of the city of Galicia. Because the increase in housing prices in the center of cities is forcing many people to move to municipalities and peri-urban parishes within the metropolitan areas. This whole counter-urbanization process is stagnating cities and systematically occupying new soils in an extension diffused across the territory. And instead of promoting from the public administration the maintenance and rehabilitation of the already built, in practice the free market imposes continuous dynamics of diffuse soil occupation. This has a negative impact on many aspects such as mobility, the costs of maintaining all such urbanisation or the provision of services. Therefore, the lack of policies that encourage rehabilitation and accessibility to housing in urban areas also derives from a territorially unsustainable model from an environmental, economic and social point of view. On the other hand, the fact that policies over the last few decades promote the prevalence of the market value of housing above the value of use, that is, of its real function, also had consequences in an over-depending economic model of real estate value. We saw him in the 2007 crisis and we're seeing him right now, too, with the bubble at the rent price. Therefore, the debate of empty housing is not a dilemma about the owner's rights to rent or not his home, but it's a social debate of silence that touches many aspects across the board. This debate is going to increase the degree of accessibility to housing to achieve a more just and future social model; it's going to achieve a coherent territorial model, in which soil consumption is reduced and rehabilitation is encouraged, and it's also going to provide us with a less dependent economic model of real estate speculative dynamics. [[Applause]] Another model other than free market where public administrations regulate empty housing to achieve these objectives is possible. The only explanation that Galician people don't want is because the Popular Group doesn't want to. One example is that it is possible, for example, for policies that lead to the practice of states such as France, the United Kingdom or Denmark, which have adopted tax measures that regard the unemployment of housing as a serious fact. We also have other examples within the state, such as Catalonia, the Basque Country and the Valencian Community, which, as a result of the 2007 crisis, are also developing legislation in this regard. Why not in Galicia? That's the question we should ask ourselves. You should explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks your real goals in housing and quit advertising, pure marketing to fill headlines that never work. Tell the Greeks and the Greeks, gentlemen of the People's Party, why absolutely all the measures on empty housing have failed. For the answer is very simple: because they have made them specifically designed to fail, because there is no will to address this problem. In my previous intervention, in the interpellation, I analyzed in a way that compared the different laws put in place in the state. But today I want to focus on the proposed part that we bring from the Galego Nationalist Block, thought by and to Galicia, because the reality of the real estate park in Galicia is unique, among other things, for a specific historical evolution of the property structure and territorial model. So with this motion, we demand that Galician Union develop its own regulatory framework, that is, a Greek framework to address the problem of empty housing. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, must be reminded again and again that the living skills are of the German Government, and you must exercise them. And I recognize that this is almost heavy enough to bring it back to this camera again and again. [[Applause]] But you remember now when the Central Government makes the State Housing Law that the housing powers are of the Union. Well, for the rest of the year, I practice them, which is a Galician competition. And that's what we're proposing to you here, to get you to legislate in the matter of empty housing. [[Applause]] We propose that this new legislation be developed from the following axes: First of all, establish general criteria for action based on the singular structure of Galicia. First, regulate the procedure and empty housing declaration and create a register of the empty dwelling in Galicia. Make a definition of the owner types with the aim of distinguishing between large owners and small owners. Because we understand that you're not in the same situation, for example, a pensioner who has a property to complement your income, and who can circumstantially have it empty, or who doesn't have enough money to reform it, of which is the situation where a great owner might be accumulating dozens of empty dwellings, who has them simply without placing them on the market for a pure logic of profitability. We understand that policies must have a redistributive character and, therefore, the demands to one and another type of owners must be different and gradual according to the number of empty dwellings and the total number of square meters. We also understand that the delimitation of the areas in which intervention measures on empty dwellings will be applied should be set in these criteria. Because it can't be applied homogenously throughout the territory of Greece anyway, since there are many areas in our country where a landlord may have real difficulties in renting or selling housing for lack of demand. Therefore, measures having a taxable nature should only apply where there is a credible demand for housing. Once these general criteria are defined, two combined mechanisms of action are proposed: on the one hand, of a taxable nature and, on the other hand, of encouragement and of aid to ensure that these unoccupied dwellings are unfairly incorporated into the real estate market. It is necessary to regulate tax measures to save empty dwellings in order to encourage owners to incorporate them into the real estate market. As I mentioned earlier, this tax would be applied only in those areas where there is a claim and a credible need for housing. The general principle that must refuse is that if there is a demand for housing and the owner refuses to place it on the market, that is a grave fact by failing to fulfill the social function of the property of the dwelling. From the BNG we understand that the quotas of this tax should also be adjusted with a redistributive criterion, defining progressive types in relation to the type of owner and the total accumulated square meters; that is, how many more housing and more square meters kept out of the market, the higher the percentage of the recharge. Even so, we also look at the possibility of applying reductions to that tax with a redistributive criterion; that is, for each empty housing mobilized towards the rent at affordable prices if you receive it in the quotas for that charge, so that it benefits and contributes to improving access to housing to the lowest incomes. On the other hand, there would be the promotion measures to be put in place by the public administration, and in this case would apply to the whole territory, regardless of the demand; that is, by maintaining a redistributive criterion according to the economic capacities and the type of owner. And here we include two proposals: lines of help aimed at improving accessibility, accessibility or energy efficiency, and a mediation program by the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo. Ladies and gentlemen, there are alternatives to this speculative model, which accelerates social inequalities, which is unsustainable environmentally and will again hit our economy when it returns...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u64	...to blow the new bubble. —I am done.—The countries around us are taking action; other communities are protecting themselves by taking such measures. And it's time for Galicia to take over its powers, make a housing policy that puts us in the vanguard rather than in the state's queue position. I especially ask the spokespersons of the other groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u66	...—I'm done now—and especially that of the People's Group that we're discussing about the measures, the effectiveness and efficiency that they could have. But if you refrain from just saying that it's all right, because it's not right, it's not good when you have the worst unemployment rates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u68	...when we lead the empty housing ranking. And it doesn't work when all the measures of this government in the matter of empty housing failed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u69	Thank you very much. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u70	So they amend, correct, and legislen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u71	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u72	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you. We, from the Socialist Group, wanted to begin the debate on this motion by recalling a little of the position which held in the last plenary the holder of Vivenda in that debate of the interpellation, and both in the justification of those who were responsible for the great problem of that very high number of empty dwellings in Galicia and also around the competences. The counselor said: it seems that only some people have skills and the others just teach lessons, and there's something more to be done than teaching. Well, Counselor, you were launching this message and finally limiting and justifying this shocking failure in these years in the mobilization of that very high number of empty housing in the municipalities. All the guilt — the counselor said — is from the Town Councils. An intervention, of course, in which besides throwing balloons out of competitions, saying that the fault of this failure of the Housing Mobilization Plan was from the Town Councils, because it also had it in part, like, the state next to the chachachacha, as it is already usual. A plan — I said — was missed, the State Housing Plan, which we remember very well that one week ago was approved, and also whose retroactive benefits have been in force since January 1st. We also remember here that criticisms of the draft law guaranteeing the right of housing were there by the People's Party and the Government of Galicia. Even before they knew a single line of that preliminary draft, they announced it with boycott and go to the courts. [[Applause]] In this new model of opposition in times of crisis, responsible, following up on Vox, any advance, social measure, for we threaten the boycott and turn to the courts. Everything — as we said — is very responsible. And speaking of these inconsistencies and competences, the People's Party applauds at this hour very happily and angrily those reports of two vogue conservatives of the Judiciary, which they say is that the draft law that aims to drive the Government — they are necessary — has the problem that it invades autonomous competences. We applaud these reports, but on the other hand, we don't say when it comes to... to make policies that we have no responsibility. Because in that debate of the questioning around empty dwellings, the councillor said here that it was the Government of the State paradoxically what had to be defined as an empty dwelling, which are the tense areas, which are the great tenors, and now we applaud that these conservatives of the Judiciary Council say that the competences are in the communities. Let's agree. [[Applause]] And we asked, and let us make use of our own living skills: what have they done around this program these years?, what are they doing?, what are they going to do? Because the other day it wasn't clear. And there's a big problem, important as a starting point listening to the counselor, and we're not even able to agree at the starting point. Because he also used the biggest negationism with the figures. Mrs Fernández moved that figure that is more than 300 thousand — the highest figures in the state — empty housing in Galicia. And the counselor said he wasn't. Figures that are hung on the page of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo, which are reports of the Institute itself and the Galego Observatory of Vivenda. But the advisor says that these are not the empty housing figures in Galicia. If you want to contrast, you could also go to the figures you were transferring in the middle of last year to the Tributary Agency, the Catastro figures, which are in 337,000, corresponding to the empty dwellings in Galicia, the highest figures in the state. But, in addition, it gives us other information, which also denies what the counselor says: that they are not mostly many housings in ruins; they are many housings that concentrate on the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra built between 2002 and 2011, in the middle of the building boom. They are houses built in these years and in these cities, more tense, as we can check in the plaintiff register, and where young people and young women, in fact, are living in this last year the most worrying data of emancipation since there are records at the National Institute of Statistics. It's also housing that concentrates in the cities where rent prices have risen the most in the last five years. Together with them, persons with disabilities, socially and economically vulnerable, or victims of violence, who find no answer in the policies of the Galician Union. And the best example is: going to the budget project that year after year on housing brings this parliament and approves most of the People's Party. This 2022, Housing Access Program, 40% less of the money the Bipartite allocated in the last budget of 2009. In full crisis, 40% below. But there's no longer this lack of will, it's no longer the figures, it's the level of execution, which in the matter of housing is certainly worrisome and bloody year after year. Budget 2020, Access to housing programme, EUR 27 million. They only run 27 million euros, which is no longer a figure to throw rockets, 9 million euros. But not only if we talk about our own funds. The 2018-2020 housing plan, a plan with 82 million euros, and they only used half of it. Such is the reality, the disaffectation and disillusionment that a few days ago the Government Delegation in Galicia has been forced to transfer a letter to Vivenda's advisor asking what happens with the figure of the rehabilitation managers, which is a figure that has agreed with the autonomous communities to give exit and to be able to use and manage the millionaire funds that are envisaged for housing and rehabilitation for the autonomous communities. For Galicia in various calls it's over two hundred thirty million euros. And it is necessary to put in place as agreed upon by these rehabilitation managers, to make themselves available to those municipalities which criticize the Council of Galicia and which need this support precisely to give way, to process and speed up, and that it is not without using all this amount of funds that are within — as we say — of that Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. Because what you find is criticism, throwing balloons out, and you don't even answer if you comply with your commitment. So instead of confronting in this matter, it's about budgeting, managing, executing, increasing cooperation and working in a coordinated manner with state policies to make housing, and the fifth pillar of the State housing. The Central Government has just adopted precisely the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, which has an eminently social character to pay attention to the most vulnerable. Also the creation of that nice new rent, which, like not?, also criticized this German Government, to enable that access to the girls and the boys we said. We'd have to be the first because we have the worst emancipation data at the state level since there's records in the state. And because the efforts, in addition, must be dedicated, as the plaintiffs' Register and all studies point out, to increase the offer of housing in rent schemes, and more specifically to increase the offer of housing in social rent through the impulse of the resourceful public housing park. That is why we tabled an amendment too, because we believe that we must indeed move forward and put solutions on the table within the framework of the competences on housing. But we also think — and hence the sense of our amendment — that we must do so in coordination rather than in confrontation with the policies that are being promoted by the Government of the State. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Freire Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u74	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I have to apologize to the House for this suffocating result of the cold of the last few days. I'll try to speak slowly. Mrs. Otero, you're lying more than you're talking. What made cuts in the housing budget was the Bipartite. The Greek Government of the Galician Union does what it does is to increase the budget year by year in each budget year in the field of housing. And the same is true of the execution data, because they always repeat the same data when you know that you are a mantra that repeats continuously. Execution data is not true and has already been explained repeatedly on several occasions. He's also talking about balloons outside. Look: balloons out there did and do it the Government of Pedro Sánchez when he wanted to stay with 204 million of the 2017 EVV liquidation that corresponded to Galicia, and that the Greek Government had to sue him judicially. And now Pedro Sánchez also plans to have 450 million European funds in Galicia. [[Applause]] Therefore, to defend from Galicia the Government of Pedro Sánchez, I think we must be more careful. Mrs. Fernández, the German Government is working with a cross-cutting policy, working to ensure that all Greeks have a decent home and affordable prices, building public housing and also betting on rehabilitating the building, placing it in value and making it easier for families to access a housing. Various programs of renting, buying, rehabilitation, accessibility, rural, historical helmets, with more opportunities for young Greeks to access their first home and, of course, for those who need it most. Going to some statements that were made here. Mrs Fernández — I also repeat to Mrs Otero — makes false statements, such as saying that there are currently 300 thousand empty dwellings in Galicia. And he knows perfectly well that this data isn't 2021, which is a data from 2011, a decade ago. And he also knows that the data includes dwellings that did not meet minimum living conditions, even old dwellings in a ruinous state. However, the Greek Government is not unaware of the existence of empty dwellings that are not available on the market, and that under different circumstances. Mrs Fernández speaks of empty housing belonging to financial institutions and large tenors. But we all know that the structure of the property of the dwelling in Galicia is very different from that of Madrid or Barcelona. Large owners, both physical and legal, are scarce in Galicia. Most of Galicia's housing park is owned by small private owners who have invested their savings in a housing, in some cases at their disposal as second residence, in other cases that can be rented, reports the only income they have, and in other cases the owners cannot rent the property because they cannot cope with the costs of reform; in my judgment, this is a large percentage. Once again the Galician Union has exposed in this parliament the need to encourage the provision of housing for citizens who are not in use. And on that line, we worked on the empty housing program, which had been created from an agreement between the IGVS and the Fegamp, where the IGVS fully financed the cost of insurance and aid to owners, and where the collaboration of the municipalities was needed. The lack of involvement of the major municipalities, where the highest demand is concentrated, prevented the expected results from being achieved because they refused to launch this tool that offered Junta to Fegamp, giving up in addition to the competences. Councils governed by the PSOE and the Tides gave up joining the Empty Housing Program. This has already been explained there and also explained in Commission 3a. The Merger had to reformulate the application, which is now managed directly by the IGVS. The programme has been reformulated within the framework of the Galician Housing Observatory, where all the groups related to the housing world are present, and where the Social Pact for Housing has been unanimously approved, as you know. This pact indicates the mobilization of empty dwellings that this program will be managed directly by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, and it will count on the collaboration of the real estate agencies and managers, with the aim of mobilizing as many private property as possible, so that they will enter the rental market at an affordable price for leasers. Advantages for the owners: legal security for the rent through default coverage, multi-risk home and legal assistance; greatly lost aid from up to 8,000 euros to the property to carry out housing arrangements under the Re-alalaluga Program; priority in access to loans for interest-free rehabilitation. Renting people: unlimited income, helping tenants with more difficulties. It focuses mainly on areas and municipalities where housing demand is concentrated in rent and there is greater tension in housing prices. Even so, the IGVS will drive the real estate registered in the empty housing census of the autonomous community to be used in this program, which will favor its occupation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union already has a housing mobilization program, which will manage the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil in collaboration with real estate agents and farm managers through its professional schools. The program is ready for its launch, but it was necessary to wait for approval of the 2022-2025 Housing Plan, in which the Government plans to include an empty housing program. It proved logical and prudent to wait to find out the provisions of the Housing Plan before launching the autonomic program, to avoid duplication in the same matter. Now that the Housing Plan has been approved, the Board will make the necessary adjustments to put in place a program that will directly manage the IGVS and will allow further work to mobilize for social housing that is not currently in use. I hope that the implication that has not been shown before is shown now, because bad politics does not benefit anyone and good politics, comes from whom it comes, benefits the Greeks and the Greeks, which is the last end to which we all have to attend. As has been pointed out, the Galician Union opts for positive measures against the punitive measures of other administrations. And from the People's Parliamentary Group we applaud that approach which opts for positive measures against the announced penalizing measures of the Central Government and those proposed by the Nationalist Block of Wales, and which offers legal security to owners who rent their homes at reasonable prices, encourage them with guarantees of renting and maintenance of their property conditions and with help to rehabilitate or adapt housing. Faced with measures to provide legal security and incentives to owners to bring this housing to the rental market, BNG is once again planting penalizing measures. The BNG first proposes punitive measures by means of tax charges, which have not produced positive results anywhere and which the German Government does not share. The BNG also foresees in its motion intervention measures that have difficult to fit into the free market as is housing, and that the German Government does not share either. I'm going to give you examples of cases where BNG raises charges, taxes and intervention measures: A bigger marriage with the savings of their lives was able to buy a real estate. They don't have money to reform it and rent it, they live in a small pension. BNG proposes tax refunds and intervention measures. Marriage that with the savings of her life managed to reform the house of the village where they were born and inherited from their parents. Health and mobility conditions prevent them from enjoying it. BNG proposes tax refunds and intervention measures. Galego who works in an out-of-country country who with his savings bought a pool so he could return to Galicia when he retired. BNG proposes tax refunds and intervention measures. They're real cases, we're not talking about big ceilings, nor are we talking about owners on a TV set who got a case. But we're going to know what those tax charges are and intervention measures that BNG refers to. Barcelona, in case the apartments are not rented within a month, sanctioning measures such as fines or notice of expropriation. Valencia, monthly coercive fines. Basque Country, 10 euro/square meter canon, forced rental and even expropriation. Look: Galicia won't do Bipartite housing policy, PSOE-BNG on board, or BNG, which we already know. That housing policy was indeed a real defeat, a real failure. Failure of vanguard, Mrs. Fernández, and not only by the famous norms of the habitat but also by the absolute inability to manage. Galicia doesn't have to import anything from Barcelona or Valencia, because it's capable of making its own housing policies. Policies that come out of experience, continuous improvement, dialogue, work, mass sharing, with people, with agents involved, sectors and consumers, with those who know the most about housing and their situation in Galicia. The Government of Greece will continue to bet on positive and encouraging measures against the restrictive and penalizing measures that you put forward in your motion and those that are contemplated in the preamble to the state housing law, with 150 per cent of the IBI recharged to unoccupied housing for two years. State housing law, which, by the way, has just backed up the General Council of the Judiciary for invading the powers of the autonomous communities; which has already been warned from the Council of Galicia. It's shameful for the Government of Spain to give up in the pandemic to exercise its own powers and with the Housing Law it intends to invade those which are not its own. The case is that it would be the same, because when there is a problem Pedro Sánchez raises his hands and says, "You are ready." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Freire. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u76	Mrs. Freire, you mind shamelessly when you mention that budgets have increased during the Feijó period in relation to housing. There are up to 1,700 million accumulated housing cuts in respect of whether the level of budgetary investment in the Bipartite had been applied. You lie without any smell. [[Applause]] But it's just that, in addition, today has brought once again a lot of the revolutionary world of all the initiatives that the Union has put in place in the field of housing, because since they don't have specific things in the field of empty housing, they always bring us everything. We can talk about empty housing, protected housing, you bring the Combo all the time, as they have no effect. But I didn't want to talk to you about the measures you're taking on a matter of even stinking, because I already pulled out the advisor the other day the real failure of all the policies on empty housing. But today that you're taking them out again, because I'm going to have to review them again. In four years they managed to mobilize thirty empty dwellings. But this empty housing program is paralysed. A year ago the advisor sat here and said he was going to reform that program, and still today there was nothing going on. But, in addition, the only program there is, the only thing there is right now is aid to rehabilitation for empty housing mobilization, which had an budget of EUR 150,000, and of which EUR 6,907 were executed in the past fiscal year; of aid that was EUR 8,000, they executed EUR 6,907. Is it because you're not ashamed to come back here again and again to report measures that are fictitious, that are lies, that don't work, that are failed? [[Applause]] Stop bringing those lies all the time. But it's just that, in addition, you do a set cartoon of our proposal, as it's almost going to come here someone assaulting old people and I don't know what else, scaring people. Because you, apart from the lie, practice the politics of fear to people so that these kinds of policies are not made, distorting the proposals. Because the proposal is in common sense, and I think it is understood in a very easy way: if there is an empty housing that is unsolicited in an unjustifiable way, the social function of the dwelling is being breached, and hence the owner has an obligation for that dwelling to fulfil a social function. This is exactly what is said, for example, in Basque law. Do you think the Basque Government is trying to impose a number of expropriation mechanisms and I don't know what social Communists are going to rob pensioners? No, no, no, no. It's a rational measure, of social justice, of a coherent territorial model, of a less dependent economic model of real estate bubbles. It's a measure that protects not only people who have problems with access to housing, but all of us as a society. [[Applause]] So they stop distorting and characterizing honestly lying. The fact is that many countries are implementing these measures; many different political colors are implementing these measures. So much so that I'm going to read you an appointment, to see who you are guessing who you are: "With the incentives that exist today for the aquiler, who has an empty house and not the rent is because you don't want it, and the fair thing is that you pay more for it." Do you know who it is? Mr. Gallardón, with a star proposal for Madrid. Of course, Gallardón seems to happen to him like Feijóo, who are sometimes disguised as progressives, especially with media aid, but at the time of truth they are more right-wing ultras than anyone else. [[Applause]] And the way you're holding these kinds of measures, almost as far right, what actually portrays is you, who prefer to be part of that last bastion of ballistics policy before having a country with a minimum housing planning. And I end up standing on the amendment of the Socialist Party. I sincerely believe that his amendment is a disappointment, and I greatly regret it. I also understand that you did not defend your amendment in your intervention precisely for this. I think it's just as disappointing — I have to say — as the draft state law. I believe that in this case the Socialist Party happens as many other times, that at the time of truth when decisions are to be made, it seems that they pray to those who command the most. And the state law is far from the postulates it had initially, to end up softening itself to certain interests. His amendment, unfortunately, goes in the same direction, which is to lower the demands that we bring from the Nationalist Block of Galicia until we leave them at nothing. First of all, you eliminate tax measures, and you are confined exclusively to that tax incentive policy that determines state law, that is to say, to pay with public money the fired margins of current profits. But, in addition, the most paradigmatic of the Socialist Party's amendment is that it seeks this unified model of the state, which is downstairs. Because what that state law does is to tell the autonomous communities that they have a more advanced policy that has to lower their aspirations, but at the same time they don't set minimum demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u78	...for the application in the other autonomous communities. So it's a recentralization that's going down. And you do the same in this amendment, because what you're suggesting is that empty housing policy is rejected by the criteria set out in the State Housing Law to declare a tense market area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alexandra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u80	I'm done. And I just wanted to show them an image. If we apply that criterion, in orange we have the only municipality in Galicia where it would apply, the council of Trives. [[Mr. Fernández Gómez shows the House a map of Galicia.]] We believe that empty housing policy should be applied in many more places than the Trives Town Hall, and not only through these tax bonus policies, but also through taxation policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to conflicts between drummers and understanders
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u82	No amendments were tabled to this motion. You have the floor to formulate the motion to Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u83	Good day to all and all. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary session before Christmas, we were questioning the sea councillor because of a situation that is not new, which has been taking place for years, but which has really never reached the extremes at this moment. Our main intention with that question was to know whether for once the Council would exercise its responsibilities, exclusive competences, because here there are no other administrations, in the extraction of mexillon seed into natural banks, and would try to avoid the conflicts that had already occurred in the 2019-2020 campaign and that, as there was nothing or no one to prevent them, they were repeated in the 2020-2021 campaign. As always, the advisor didn't answer our questions and -- which is even worse -- gave no answer or solution to any of the two parties involved in the conflict: the drummers and the concierge. Now, what he did was to take advantage of that appeal for propaganda — that it is very good for him — by insisting even to satiety in that debate in a call to drummers for dialogue; a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, which in all these years the Council has neither encouraged nor promoted. On the contrary, precisely that lack of dialogue, consensus and, above all, the imposition that the Council has just carried out with the resolution of the end of November, just the day before the current campaign, campaign 2021-2022, of the extraction of the cheek, was the one that has now come into the situation in which we are. This situation has a history of those we have already talked about a lot in this Parliament, in the 8th Commission itself and also in this plenary. There is a regulation, the Order of 26 October 2000 which — and I read textually — regulates the extraction of mexillon seed into natural banks. An order — I insist — of the year 2000 that says who can pick up the cheekbone. The farmer may be collected by his own concessionaires or by an agreement signed with the confrries or grouping of marscadoras. That same order establishes the extraction zones, which have been the coast of the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra and certain areas on the Atlantic islands. It also sets the extraction period, from 1 December to 30 April. It also has maximum amounts that can be extracted: 3,500 kilograms of seed per beat in each period. And that order also says who makes the decision on applications: the territorial delegate or delegate of shift. In the case of the extraction of seed, agreed with the confrries, this order clearly collects — and I read again textually — that "these" — i.e. the confrries — "will provide you with the mexillon seed extracted from the rocks of the coast, included in approved areas of authorisation or farm plans". And he has, like almost all the rules, a perverse additional disposition, which was, precisely, to which you have come welcoming for years to keep looking to the other side. The additional provision says: "According to the conjunctural characteristics of each campaign and when the monitoring and evaluation of the resources advises it, the territorial delegation may modify the zones, quantities and periods of extraction by reasoned resolution". It is an additional provision which in itself derogates all set in detail by the order itself which contains that provision. Because just after detailing the conditions under which the mussel can be extracted, who, when and where it can be extracted, that provision leaves at the heart of the decisions of the territorial delegations all the procedure, without establishing what are called "conjunctual characteristics", who establishes them and on what basis. However, that 2000 legislation was worth the Council, the People's Party in Galicia, for nearly 20 years to keep the two parts in a more or less stable partnership as well. And I say "more or less" because at all that time there were also clashes and conflicts, but the Council took hold of the norm and made the vast majority of cases like the ostrich, hid its head and let the two sectors resolve as they could themselves. They passed — as I say — almost twenty years until the Board made the decision that there was finally a need for order in the extraction of the cheek. But he didn't take it on his own; not much less; that decision was forced by conflicts of some gravity that were already taking place in the campaign — as I mentioned earlier — of 2019-2020. The decision taken by the Council was placed in a decree in Decree 153/2019 — Textual law again — so the regime for the conservation and exploitation of marine resources and algae is regulated. In other words, the Council takes advantage, twenty years later, of a decree in which the extraction of the mussel is not regulated, but that it regulates the conservation and exploitation of marine resources — among them, it perceives it — to introduce an article — the very famous article 13.2 — where it is collected that the management plans of understanding may reserve areas for the extraction of the missel seed. For the first time since the year 2000, the rule has been changed by the back door and it regulates the extraction of the cheek, in addition to the Order of 2000, now by a decree in the year 2019, entering a contradiction between the two regulations of which only the Council is responsible; neither the drummers nor the conceivators, the Council of the Sea, who was the one who caused the confusion between the two regulations and the malaise also of the two parties because each one is approaching the regulation of the two existing ones — to order and to decree — that most would happen to him at every moment. So the conflict and confusion were growing — as I said before — and this was not only allowed but only caused by an absent counsellor's office for twenty years and now, in 2019, it regulated not precisely to solve problems but to increase them, as we have seen and as we continue to see today. In view of the situation, the Council announces in June 2020 — let us remember, the decree was 2019 — the creation of a work table in which different aspects would be analysed with the two sectors so that conflicts would not take place again. That, in June 2020, but six months later, in December 2020, the Director-General for Aquaculture, in response to the questions of this parliamentary group in the 8th Commission, was not the one, I insist, six months later, to move the conclusions of that working table. He simply found that there was such a work table and said that all the rules and proposals were being analysed and that there was also above the table, because, according to him, not only was it intended to regulate that campaign, but it was also intended to give future continuity to that regulation. Six months later, in June 2021, the Bureau had not yet completed anything, despite the continuing tensions. The confrries demanded mediation, they did several times, on several occasions during that campaign, and the Administration finally gave the floor in response. At all, he kept saying that the Bureau was continuing, and the confrereries themselves accused the Council of drawing up a draft order that had not been consulted with them. Well, so it's been all this, with going and coming from statements this past year and peaking, and it starts the current campaign we're in, 2021-2022. That is, year and a half after the establishment of the Bureau and there is no — as the Director-General had said — yet a new regulation or consensus between the two sectors. And, well, just the day before the campaign and speeded up by the tensions between the two sides, on November 29th — the campaign begins on December 1st — the Council called on the Mexillon Bureau — not the work table between the two sectors and the Administration, but the Mexillon Bureau — and put an absolutely unilateral resolution on the table setting up a zoning which, of course, caused great discomfort. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is the summary — I have finished, Mr President — of an absolute and continuous inaction, of dodging to exercise its exclusive competences — I insist —. And now, after Christmas, which is resumed the campaign of extraction of the cheek, we hope that this lack of action does not bring even greater consequences. Well, today we bring in the motion, as a result...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u85	...—ending, Mr President—of that plea, a proposal which ultimately means to sit down again. The Council cannot continue to have two very important sectors in our economy, in the sea sector, facing. And, therefore, the offers of dialogue and to sit down can't just be a mouthful...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u87	...they have to be implemented. So we also make that proposal in this motion. Moreover, Mr President, I have already said, of course, that it is not understood how, after so many years, these sectors are at the expense of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u88	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u89	...that there are real investments for the mexillion seed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u91	...if you grow up out of the natural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u92	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. The evolution of the conflict was explained by the rapporteur of the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, with its historical journey, which is not smaller by the succession of situations and orders, and which makes a lot of sense to explain why we are here, but the reality is that we are, of course, in a conflict that causes a lot of risks and tensions, because we are talking about what a good part of the sea sector lives and works with. And, therefore, there's an obvious tension between the sectors, which suffer like there's a counselor feeding a conflict. And this causes situations -- some of them we've known over the past year -- that we would like them not to repeat again, but in fact it causes quite worrying situations. That's why we believe that the Council must leave this dangerous game of feeding inter-sector conflicts for a strange political interest to understand, though surprising, when understood. It's not a conflict between them against each other; this is not a conflict — as the Council intends to make it look like drummers against fellows. It's neither one nor another nor one against the other, and it's not a good conflict against the bad. This is a sector that has been living for about seventy years — let us put it this way — and they have never had this problem. Why? Well, probably because the problem isn't theirs, and it's not from the cheekbone that's born. By explaining the problem -- that we often talk about debates, but I want to try to explain it more easily -- the cheek, as you know, is the chick that allows later to have the mussel that was raised in the bats. And it is given in the same rocks where one perceives it, but not one above another -- let's be clear -- it's given in the same rocks; many of them hard to access. The ones that are most difficult to access -- they're going through as they don't understand -- they have better cheekbones, and they realize they also have better product in the most difficult rocks, as they know. Even though one of them gets more at the front, in front of the sea, and the other in the cracks, for example -- this is a small difference -- it dances, in any case, in the same rocks. There's a problem now, according to the Council, which is why one of the two products has to be collected, in this case seal the cheek, because it can affect the perception. So, from this problem—theoretically, a problem of productivity of the perceived due to the cheek, according to the Counsellor's argument— one might think: is there any technical report that suggests that extracting the cheek, with all care, with all caution and with all the good doing of our battery sector, causing problems and losses of product of perception? Is there a report that swallows it? Because what we've been asking for time is reports that assess the decision from a technical point of view and that the Council says it has. I'll give you a hint. The Council said in the last commission that it had already sent them. We warn you not, he corrected and said: it may be true, sorry, we'll send them. But more than a month ago, and they're not yet. So, first of all, we're going to find out if those reports say that the Council claims to say, we're going to know. Because probably the ups and downs of the productive capacity of the perception have to do with a lot of things and probably also with a Council deficit, which didn't do well, and that might be trying to cover it up. But there are no such reports yet in public. Let's wait, let's give the benefit of the doubt. Second. Some might think that poorly the drummers who go to the rocks on the cheek also catch sight, and they can't. If that were so, we would all be defending that, of course, such conduct must be punished. Are there any complaints, any requests for such a case? Don't you? Sectors know, and those of us who live around the sea, we know that usually watching is, in more intense times and in others, less, but they are. And the Civil Guard in many cases does these reviews, but there's no such problem. So if there's no such problem and it's still not believed that there's a biological problem in itself, why veto the mexillary harvest? Or, what's the same, why stop the drummers from having access to their cheeks so they can or can have less difficulty creating the mussel? For probably because the Council's policy, in this case, before a sector that demands, a sector that claims and a sector that is mobilized, is, having that nailed thorn that has been stopped by the Aquaculture Law, to divide to win. And this is the political explanation of the matter. The Council intends to divide the sector to go against each other and to use another part of the sector to go against each other; confront them. Divide and you'll win, as Julius Caesar said. That's the point. We're in that situation... by the way, now dividing to use and go against each other, as they've used to fight each other. This is what the Council does, causing conflicts in the sector, dividing it, to finally come in and try to stay like the solution it proposes is the only one that exists. And in the end, the only thing the Council is doing is feeding conflicts to dominate a sector; a sector that protestes, a sector that claims and has a lot of strength, as we all know. And above all, I take advantage to say that those of us who live in more sea territory know that this is a sector that demands a lot, and that's what concerns the Council. This is the debate, this is the question. From here on, they build the story they want, but that's the question. In seventy years of living, there has never been this problem. Why now? There's nothing to justify it; and, if there is, you don't know. So it seems problematic. What will provoke this situation? It will probably lead to an increase in costs that will have an impact on the sector, which often causes prices to rise, if any; it will cause the entire chain of the marine industry to be damaged because higher prices will enter. And you'll say, why the prices? Because, in the end, the cheek will be picked up; the drummers won't pick it up, but there will be whoever will pick it up, and they will collect it. Or they're going to enter companies from outside to collect elsewhere, and they're going to charge it. And that's where the problem goes, which we naturally gave before and we built the whole process, now we're going to cut the process at a point so that between a system that a part of the sector will have to pay for a product that was previously taken naturally and that never gave any problem. This is the explanation of the matter, which is why the sector is tense and why the situations are caused. And that's why, when the Council, instead of solving the problem, mocks at saying things like 83 percent of the coast is released to catch a cheek, it has to be told that the problem is at the remaining 17%, because on the beaches it can't be done, it's given on the rocks, especially on the outside. That's why you can't make fun of the sector or laugh at them, or you're offering your hand to get to the meetings of your hand and then say, well, we're not going to change anything, but we hope you'll accept the dialogue. The dialogue is to accept what we propose, which is not dialogue. The concept of dialogue needs to be changed a little bit. Here's the problem. Give him what he wants. That is why we are going to support this initiative. Feeding a conflict is never a good way to make politics, never, and in this case it's not a conflict that existed, but it's a conflict created by who legally intervened and who was created to confront each other, who have no fault or fault, enough have to do their job and identify us. It is a deeply rooted work in our society, which clearly scientificizes us, which defines us culturally. Why come in and feed this problem? Since the sea is that identity of us, what need was there to enter this problem? And from here, they build what they want. We argue that the conflict is not the solution, that the conflict will never bring anything good, except for those who want to divide, which, in this case, of course, is the Council. They allow the sector to work normally. There are paths for it to work, they have seventy years of experience. And what works does not touch it to have more power, because the question of the sea sector is not that the Council has more power, but that it is a more productive sector, and not what they are achieving, but rather the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez was 20 years old with a stable cohabitation. What you have to say here, when you talk about conflict, is that the Union works to keep that stable coexistence. And this decision to put "order" -- between quotes -- which Mrs Pérez also said, as you say, you didn't make it when they ruled. You've also preferred to "throw forward" -- between quotes -- as you also said, so that it would continue to be stable. So you can't accuse anyone here of looking elsewhere because there's really nothing going on through the back door, precisely the request of opposition groups, of which I will also speak in my intervention. He's talking about confusion. Then let's clear up the confusion. If you think this is just a mess, let's clear up the confusion. Because I have to say, in addition, that I would like to point out that, at the last meeting held on December 15 between the Council of the Sea with representatives of the main associations of mussels, there was indeed a hand held and dialogue. And the one who got up from the table didn't go to Galicia. The layout and dialogue are still on the table, and the tending hand has always been by the Council of the Sea. It speaks of inaction, of whether this is really the result of action. This motion -- and this interpellation, which you raised in the previous plenary -- is the consequence of acting; therefore, your speeches are full of contradictions; and this is not an inaction, that is an action. You also talk about this, in addition, being a mess. Well, then, let's really talk about what's going on. At that table — I insist — there was dialogue, and the sea councillor also proposed dialogue by making five proposals for progress. The first and the immediate one was to analyze the allegations presented to the order that demarcates the extraction areas of mexillon seed and to see the possibility of flexibilizing the affected areas, which is what really generated that conflict. Question where you have been working and which has enabled you to simplify some of the areas; even the door that you could send more data could be opened to find a better consolidation of those areas. You will know that there were six allegations: one of them was in legal terms and in discrepancies in matters other than the problem; others were also about the claim of the areas, so we're in this analysis. Indeed, that table was to analyze those allegations. But there were those who said that they only wanted the withdrawal of article 13, and that without removing that article would not begin the negotiation. Well, the other four proposals from the Council of the Sea go through flexibility in the number of harvesters and the time of deployment, they go through the extraction of the mussel throughout the year, and they go through the installation of specific breeders for seedlings -- known as hatcheries -- and the creation of polygons for collecting strings. They are also demands and petitions that have been made and that have been on the table for a long time. The coastal sector, for its part, has asked — as I say — to mark as the only condition for negotiation, the withdrawal of Article 13, which allows these extraction zones to be defined; a limitation of areas from which we have been talking for more than a year. So that withdrawal from the table that started and the Council's justification would clash with the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which says that the management plans for the realization are the framework in which measures to protect this crustacean should be evaluated when they coexist with the cheekbone. We know that to you the resolutions of the higher courts or the Supreme courts do not matter; they pull forward, and they don't listen. But we do listen to them, because that's the way we need to legislate, and all the points have to be taken into account. It would therefore clash with the ruling of the High Court of Justice and also clash with the technical reports — Mr. Torrado, yes, with the technical reports — which point to the need to modify the working areas for a sustainable exploitation of the cheekbone and of the perception. The Council of the Sea has always betted and continues to bet — as I say — by dialogue, and that is why it has been working for months in the search for agreements and making different proposals to drummers; months working on these agreements and years working with ongoing dialogue with the sector. I'm going to point out that Counselor Rosa Quintana has always bet and continues to bet on a word that is very soft and very addicted today, that is co-governance, but that she has always been in her plans; a co-governance to be in the hands of the sector and to be in permanent dialogue both with the cheekers and with the fellows; so that we can understand each other, with both sectors. Because you can't here accuse neither the Council nor this party of being on one's side or of being on the other's side. That's something you do and it's pure opportunism. That's where you see that it acts and that you can seek conflict, Mr. Torrado, are you. And you appealed to Julius Caesar -- his toy -- and the "divided and you will win," because that's really what you're doing, and what the opposition groups want to do -- to divide, win and accuse the Galician Union of something that is not at all their responsibility. [[Applause]] From the Council of the Sea the measures taken seek to ensure balanced coexistence and adequate protection of the interests competing in the exploitation of the cheekbone and of the perception. You have already explained — and more clearly — that was all this interpellation, that it was this order and that it was intended to be done. And, I repeat, always with the tending hand and dialogue. And in addition, in these days you can move forward in the debate of proposals already offered for the future of the sector. Because, what are you looking for? A rule that lasts in time. They were now talking about 20 years of cordial co-existence. We're looking for a standard now because times evolve. For seventy years too, as Mr. Torrado said. Of course we have to evolve, we have to move forward and we have to look for a standard now that it can allow that coexistence and that it lasts in time as well. So we're all going to make proposals, work, and not try to find a conflict where there isn't, because dialogue, as I say, and the tending hand remains open by the Council of the Sea. The interesting thing about this motion is the position of opposition groups, because you're bluffing. They should explain to us why the course changes of their double speech. We're not going to say one thing in Salnes and another thing in the Death Coast, which you do on many occasions. We have a clear speech and we want the best for all the sub-sectors of the whole entremée, the entire maritime-fishing sector. And you can't accuse -- as I said before -- neither the Council nor this party of being on either side or side. That's what you're interested in, but not us, because we want that rule that's important and that you yourself asked for in the commission. The Nationalist Block, for example, should explain when it was asked to "take a study on the model of mexillan breeding, so that it is determined in which area its extraction can be carried out without putting it at risk." In areas where this study determines and is compatible, it will encourage the implementation of an operating plan in the respective confrries to be carried out by the sector of perception." And when it's done and when the board meets the resolutions, they protest. They also protest when they say that the Union does not comply with Parliament's resolutions, but, well, I would also have to explain here Mr Torrado, by the Socialist Party, who has changed his mind. You, in March 2019, in the amendment, asked "to listen to those areas of special sensitivity to perceive it as exempt areas of mexillary extraction or other species that may endanger this resource," and when it acts, protest. So, really, those who are working, those who never move from the place where we are, those that we have always done and say that we should work and act here, all by hand -- because we offer, in addition, collaboration in Commission 8a -- we are all hands from the political point of view and in co-governance with the sectors and with the People's Party. So here are the only ones who are trying to make noise where they don't have to talk about it are the opposition parties, the Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. Look, they should explain the change of position, because they criticize that the Board does exactly what you asked us to do: rule and decide. To govern the People's Party is to think of both sectors in Galicia and throughout the fisheries sector. So when you hear some noise or discrepancy, you go like those invasive species there to try to boycott the speeches or the processes of dialogue and regulation, which, on the other hand, I insist, in the speeches in Parliament. So they come here, they criticize the Union, they accuse the Union of generating a conflict, but, on the other hand, they ask the Union to regulate this issue. They don't know where they are, and they don't know where they are. When you clear this up, we'll probably have closer to the outcome of this discrepancy. We are and have been, as I said, always where we said. And this motion we're going to support it. We are going to support you, Mrs Pérez, for several reasons, because at the first point you are talking about not stopping the meetings of the working group. The meetings of the working group are not over, and, as I say, the board did not get up from that table; therefore, it remains open, and the dialogue remains open. With regard to the second point, you're talking about making necessary research investments. Investments are at the disposal of the sector, as they have always been, through the orders of aid for aquaculture and for the association between professionals and researchers, such as the own means that demand it. I would like to remind you here that in budgets, in amendments, you always divert money from the game of aquaculture; always, in the years that I have been here in this commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u97	And finally, the third point is about the actions necessary to avoid, from mediation and dialogue, any confrontation. And on that point, I say you've always been the Council meeting each and every one of the proposals in this process. So when they ask the Board to act and the Board acts to regulate an important topic for Galicia, there we are. And the conflict only generates it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u99	We will support this motion, Mrs Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor for the fact that the motion has been drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Egerique, Mr. Torrado, I begin by thanking you for your vote in favour of our motion. Now you'll just have to wait to see what part of it finally works out. It is mentioned here that at the Bureau of Dialogue and at the meeting held in the Council on 15 December — that is what the adviser in the debate on the question- itself said — a number of issues were offered, in particular, to the mexillary sector, such as, for example, flexibility of areas, which had previously been imposed — not long before, unilaterally by the Council — and it has also been offered to simplify the lines of the collector, the extraction of the cheek throughout the year, polygons with collecting strings, Hatcheries...; a number of issues that have also appointed the councillor before Christmas. And we asked ourselves now the same question we were asking ourselves at that time: why after twenty years these measures and these offers came from the Council of the Sea just when the sector was -- never said better -- with water on its neck? Why haven't they been sitting with the two sectors all these years and started working on these and other proposals that could already be in force and could therefore be avoiding a very serious problem that we now have and which now have two very important sectors of our economy at sea? Of course, it's also said that still these days -- you said -- you can get a standard that lasts in time. It's just that we've been here for years and a half, Mrs. Egerique -- a year and a half! -- with a dialogue table -- in theory, a work table, uh!, and in constituted theory -- which had the objective of reaching an agreement not only for the 2019-2020 campaign, but to establish a regulation that could last over time. And we're still a year and a half later, not the same as a year and a half ago, but much worse. Because in that medium of time, what the Council did was -- and we don't have the same version as you did at that meeting on December 15 -- to get up from the table, after putting, precisely -- and it's worth redundancy -- on the table, a zoning and rules unilaterally, and without admitting any kind of flexibility. That's in December, of course, December 15th. If the 21st or 22nd here when we're discussing the question with the advisor, it turns out they're flexible, because it's too bad they haven't started to flexible before. Don't you? Because that would suppose we wouldn't be in this big trouble now. And you, on the advice line too, Mrs. Egerique, insist again on dialogue and on the tender hand. But what dialogue and what kind of hand are we talking about when the Mexilla campaign began on December 1, 2021 and on the 29th, i.e., on the eve of the day, if you plant it -- no more dialogue, as you say -- on the table, a map and a resolution where the sector in particular, in this case the mexillary sector, has no chance to move. So, Mrs. Egerique -- I insist -- you say they're the only ones where they were, that they didn't move. And that's true, they didn't move, they didn't move! That's what I tried to say in my first intervention. Maybe they didn't understand me well. In 20 years they didn't move. That's why we came to give where we are; that is, to a serious conflict that would not have occurred precisely if you had moved, Mrs. Egerique; I mean, the People's Party in the Government of Galicia. In any case, we would like to take it very seriously that there was indeed this dialogue and that tending hand that you say. The facts are showing us exactly the opposite. So it will be the People's Party at the Galician Union, the Councillory of the Sea, who will have to take this matter seriously because the campaign is moving forward right after the paron, in some way, at Christmas, and it's not going to be that soon we have to regret all of the differences that can be made between the two sectors. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u102	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After the debate on motions, we shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u103	We begin by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding early attention. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u104	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Ms. Alexandra Fernández Gómez. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the mobilization of the empty housing stock. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 52. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u105	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Ms Rosana Pérez Fernández. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the conflicts between drummers and fellows. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u106	The session is suspended until 16.15, four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u107	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia to progressively recover the presence in primary care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u108	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u109	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u110	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. It's a great time for parliamentary debates. After eating it is always a luxury to have this opportunity to address me — probably when I am more attentive — to the parliamentary arch. I, if you were me, wouldn't care much for me, I'd be ahead of you. We talked a lot about primary care in the morning and we all preached. Our intention is to bring this LNP because after preaching we'll see who gives wheat and who stays with the wheat for you. Because this is known. We can all talk, but the next thing is to take action or decisions consistent with what one says or what one poses in this forum. We speak today from this initiative, which focuses on face-to-faceness as a result of the process of deterioration of primary care that brings us here. As we have discussed in the morning, the fruit of this situation comes from a problem in two fundamental terms: in terms of resources and in terms of models. We could probably explain the difficulty of presence in terms of pandemic. It's indisputable. No one can doubt that the pandemic has completely altered the health system, as it has completely altered the system of coexistence in general. But it is true that you cannot serve as an excuse, and this is what the Health Council is doing — part of the Government in all its functions, but it is right now to speak of health. You're using the pandemic as an excuse because there are so many issues that are going on -- let's try to count it again -- that don't have to do with the pandemic alone; and, even, you don't even have to see practically anything about the pandemic, because we were pretty bad before we entered the pandemic and the only thing that happened now is that the seams were visualized. Fascinity, therefore, is a problem that stems from this: resource and model. We have a continuum of resource cuts and we have a model that worked but that doesn't work for primary care anymore. And this leads to something surprising going on today. And it's that in this country you can easily access a football stadium more easily than a health center. It's been a long time since this Plenary has all its members present — before we had our restrictions — but we haven't recovered the same level of presence in primary care. You can enter a lot of cultural events but not health centers and you can easily enter a religious act rather than a health center. And, finally, it seems that the health center is becoming the last place that recovers normality, when, if something should learn, it is precisely the health it should recover as soon as the whole fortress, and then pass it and overcome that which it had before. We have a problem with resource cuts. I think the data is obvious despite attempts to diversify the data or otherwise count them. We have 976 professionals less than in 2009. I still don't find anyone who knows how to discuss this data, because budgets are, of course, quite handy and they exactly say the data. I don't know if anyone can still argue that staff are paid from what's planned, and budgets say, square by square, all contracts, all staff, which has the Galician Board, as it cannot be otherwise. And here's the data: 976 less than in 2009. In addition, we have given up over the last few years to form quite a large number of them — 151 — and many of those who are trained in primary care do not want to go to primary care. Let me stop this, because we're discussing this with the data, but it's probably one of the issues that leads us to the primary situation as it is. There's a reality: the professionals who form themselves, the MIRs, they don't want to go to primary care. They want some, but not all of them — and they want less than before — and that's the question. But we must ask ourselves why they want to go little, or why they prefer other specialties. This used to be a good part of it, but not all of it. Why? It is probably because primary care is absolutely undervalued, with precarious working conditions, quite forgotten by governments — here in Galicia, mainly — with a prioritisation of some specializations and some health areas, and not of primary care, which had a fundamental task and which was being forgotten and uprooted. There's the key. Why don't our medical students want to do the family specialty later? That's the point. They don't want to do it, or they want to do it much less than they should. I know they'll argue to me that we have to do the emergency specialty. Look, when we do emergency school, many of those who do family medicine today to go to the emergency room will do the emergency room. Do you mean that these slots that are generated in primary care, in family medicine — in MIR — will be occupied by more professionals? No, no, no, no. Why? Because there's no longer that waiting list. So, doing the emergency specialty will solve, eye!, the emergency problem, it won't solve the primary problem. We can count on milongas, but that's it. So, from that, let's try to build a little bit more. There's a problem of presence, too, because of a model issue. The health system isn't just the doctors, which are fundamental, but it's not just the doctors. We usually have a problem -- and I declare myself the first -- when talking about health and thinking about doctors, which is very good, but it's not just doctors. There are countless professionals in the healthcare system who, if they're already going through with primary doctors, are going down even further. And we have a problem with the model, which is absolutely "medicinecentrist." Soon, the doctor will have to organize the cleaning shifts of the health center. It's practically what's missing, little more. Almost everything else already does. So we must go to a broader model. Why? Because if we have a shortage of medical professionals, it would be a good decision that those who exist can do their clinical work to a hundred percent of dedication, and everything they don't care about can happen to other professionals. That's why -- and there they have it in the initiative -- from our group we defend real multidisciplinaryity, incorporating many professionals who are not only optional specialists, but we can incorporate professionals from different categories and we have a system of case classification so that, when a person enters a health center, he can be attended by a specialist in what he needs and not first go to the doctor to see where it comes from -- if it has to be derived, though on many occasions it is only that he is. And if we had a greater presence of mental health in primary care, we wouldn't have primary physicians having to do jobs — on occasion — like prescribing mental health drugs. Because they can't master all the specialties, but they have to take care of the cases that come to them. We would also have physiotherapists working mobility problems, not doctors, who can do it, but might be making other issues. If we in Galicia had done more quickly the facilitation of training that nurses have — for example, I think of the prescription, that we were Spain's penultimate autonomous community in incorporating prescription into the nursing facility for those cases where the real decree permits it — we would not have to have doctors doing a job that their nurse's partner or fellow nurse can do. If we were able to truly incorporate the social work system into primary care, there would be a lot of psychosocial cutting problems that could solve social workers. If we could incorporate podologists we wouldn't have to be with foot problems in doctors and, therefore, doctors and doctors could be doing clinical truth, as well as prevention, community health, and education and health issues in the community. And that's not all we're doing because we have the saturated system. What does a saturated system mean? It means that today it is not possible to argue — as I heard today morning — that Galicia has one of the best ratios of professionals per patient, because it's a lie. And let's explain where the trick is — that we all know it. Let's think of a health center with 10 coupons, 10 primary physicians or doctors that has each of them 1,300 patients. Someone locked up in the Council, with an excellent sheet ahead, says, "We cover, we're fine, we've got 1,300. But the reality is that in that health center, with almost every probability, there are 10 doctors, there are 10 square places on the paper, but there are two people on the ground — who don't cover themselves — one who retired — who didn't retire — another one who has a few days off and another who has to be covering a bass in another health center — who also didn't lay down but where there's a PP mayor asking for something and then we have to make it easier for the PP mayor to go to the doctor and then we have another larger health center without him. And so there might be six. So the same patients, instead of being covered by ten, are covered by six and -- as far as I know -- if we divide them by ten, the ratio is a little better than divided by six. The ratio of paper has nothing to do with it and is absolutely unrealistic with what really happens in health centers. And this is what professionals complain about: not having time and 50 patients a day, which is what's happening. Fifty patients a day — if you do the calculation — are six minutes per consultation. Most of you know -- any one of us -- what it's like to go with an older person to a health center, and six minutes of consultation doesn't even come in. This is the reality in health centers. We therefore intend that the presence be resolved and that it be an agreement between professional and patient, but that wherever there are doubts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u112	...the possibility that presence is absolutely efficient. And, therefore, being an agreement, that we have as much presence as we can. For that, we need to change resources and increase them. We tried to change the model, which worked, but it didn't work. This is going to address our proposal that, after all, everything we talk about in the morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u114	...it's about wheat. We will now see who votes in favour and who does not, what we want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u116	Good afternoon. Well, we keep talking about primary care. This initiative brought here today by the PSOE we discussed it last Thursday in Commission 5th, and BNG presented an amendment to it. Today, as it is the same initiative, we present again the same amendment, in which we speak of multidisciplinaryism, Mr. Torrado; but precisely not in his own. He just said that in his initiative, he's talking about multidisciplinary, but he's not. It's only in his mind that he recovers facelessness and sets up choices. I say this because we focus on the initiative that we have in the debate and because, if not, we don't understand why we tabled the amendment or what I'm going to say. It is clear — we are returning to the beginning — that primary care is in a situation of genuine collapse, saturation, with deficits of professionals, resources and with resolute inability, and of course it is not a direct consequence of the pandemic. The pandemic has increased, seen and caused this situation to blossom with all its intensity, but it is clear that the primary care situation with its deficits was very anterior. In fact, there are the hemerotheques, the logbooks, the mobilizations and the complaints of the professionals prior to the pandemic. Primary care was saturated before, and with the arrival of the pandemic, having to do that control of positives, that follow-up, obviously has no hands. He didn't have them before, and he's got no hands now to be able to handle it. In this context of pandemics, access to health centres was restricted, and presence care was restricted in health centers. We, of course, from BNG, understood that at the beginning of the pandemic could have a justification and that this was for lack of information, not really knowing what we were dealing with — a pandemic as we had not known — and the need for protection of professionals and the population. But you can't deny what I said before, and that this need to take such restrictive measures has been caused by the situation of being already taking primary care, without human or structural resources. Attention has been reduced, access barriers have been created, consultants have been closed and afternoon shifts have been closed, and, in many cases, telephone attention has been paid exclusively, without returning to the presence, without having sufficient means to provide exit and response to the needs of the population. Home visits have been drastically reduced, waiting lists have been extended, an exceptional situation. I insist, at that point it might be necessary, a few months later it could be necessary, but of course, two years after the pandemic started, it has no justification to keep these restrictions. Non-presentity, primary waiting lists, for face-to-face or telephone consultation, are not acceptable. In the BNG we believe that they are not acceptable because primary care is proximity, accessibility, direct professional-patient relationship and continuity in care. And at the moment primary care has none of these issues. None of these basic issues are guaranteed in Galicia. And, I insist, it's not a pandemic problem. Are there organizational problems in health centers? Probably yes, and probably solvents. But, of course, the fundamental problem is not that. The fundamental problem is the lack of professionals. And the problem is, you don't know, when someone gets to the health center or calls, that professional has to take care of it. Because if someone hurts a mole and if there's a dentist in the health center, he asks the dentist; or if he's going to make a cure, he knows he has to ask for a nurse or nurse. The problem occurs when there are no professionals to answer any of the issues that are needed — absolutely no professional — and it turns out that they have to wait fifteen days, 20 days or a week for them to attend to it. That's the problem of primary care. That's the fundamental problem of primary care, and that problem is not solved by setting barriers. The problem will be solved by putting resources, putting on professionals, taking action. And action needs to be developed to ensure this presenceal activity with real, non-infinite or unpredictable agendas. [[Applause]] He spoke of the councillor in the morning of the quality agendas—he likes to talk about it continuously, because that of the quality agendas sounds like something really good. Which quality schedules are possible with fifty, sixty or seventy people to attend in one day? In paper it can look very good, it's actually impossible. Like 1,250 ICTs per patient, it's a lie! It's a lie because the reality of everyday life is that a professional has to take over his work and that of the three or four missing. The reality is that there are huge health centers with half the professionals and there are others with a third of the professionals. That's the reality you know perfectly well, but it's much easier to create an alternative story. In any case, primary care is not urgent. It's to have slots because, when someone gets sick -- he can't plan to hurt something within a week -- he needs that attention today. In any case, another thing is to set up some kind of measures to meet the non-emergency demand. If there were sufficient and professional means, that urgent demand would be the least, because people wouldn't have to be waiting and know you're paying attention. And that's why at the BNG we tabled an amendment to the Socialist Party's initiative, an initiative in which we demand to change this failed model of primary care by another based on multidisciplinary teams — we take it back to satiety — and incorporate new possible categories with enough professionals to stop hiding behind the mantra that they don't have any family doctors. They don't explain why they don't have them, but we buy them, there's no family doctors. There are many other professionals, why not include them? Because you don't want to. That's what we ask them to do in our amendment, and with enough numbers and work stability. We came here in the morning a number of working lives from some nurses. The truth is, it's quite... I don't know how to qualify to hear the counselor say that we have to make hundreds of daily contracts for professionals because there are professionals who ask for a day's holiday or free days. Everyone knows how to solve this, which is the subject of having people to go to fill those needs without having to make a contract to them every day. But pettyness sometimes reaches these levels. What do we ask for in our initiative? To carry out a human resources management plan within a maximum of six months. It's so big up here. I mean, the budgets say one thing, the others say that, and the counselor comes and says three thousand more, four thousand more... why isn't there a plan? Why don't you want to put white on black so we know how many professionals there are? Where are they? What are the conditions? Why do you refuse? Why that opacity? Why do they have so much to hide? Because the numbers would sing and cast their speech to the ground. What do we ask? Normalize primary care. And I say it loud and clear again: one hundred percent of the people who ask for and ask for presence care have to have it, all those who need it and ask for it, all those who need it and ask for it! You can't diagnose the distance, you can't diagnose yourself from the ear, you need to palpate, watch, touch the patients to know what's going on; especially those who have the most trouble communicating and expressing themselves. [[Applause]] On the phone, a lot of people, older people, can't explain what's going on with them. So, one hundred percent of the people who need it and ask for it have to have that presence and that's what BNG demands: telephone and telematic consultations are for complementary questions and for those who ask for it. But in the presence service you have to have the right to have that attention. What do we demand? To ensure telephone attention without delay, to improve telephone networks and the number of professionals to meet that demand. The counselor in the morning said, "We deal three hundred PSXs," as if to say, "But you want more!" we hire three hundred PSXs. How much did your phone service increase? How much did the people who call the health centers increase again and again? How much did the need of the health center increase to call out those people for telephone attention? Exponentially, right? Do you know how many health centers there are in Galicia? There are 470, there are 67 consultants and 90 points of continuous attention; in total, there are 560 centers. Three hundred PSXs are average per health center. That's how easy the speech of the People's Party falls. [[Applause]] They say we hire 300, and those who don't know the data will think that's an immense thing. It's not enough, it's not enough! That's why we demand that they be hired. Or is there no PSX either? Do you still have to do an extraordinary MIR to be able to hire PSX? I ask, uh! forgive me my ignorance but maybe you have to make an extraordinary MIR to hire PSX and there's no to hire, I say, right? Like we did last Thursday's commission, we tabled this amendment to sue these things that I just said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u118	...that I think they're heading towards presence and care without delay. And it would be good if once and for all the People's Party had stopped creating their alternative story and had done some of the things that you can and should be doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u120	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. We are debating again today in full a proposal which has already been the subject of debate, in identical terms, on Thursday in Commission 5th of this House. Yes, Mr. Torrado, I thank you for the fact that you have named the "prescisivity", which you did not appoint in the commission — the BNG spokesperson also told you in the commission. For our band, I will act with consistency today and explain to you here in plenary session exactly the same as I told you last week in commission, and defending more, if possible, the management that is being done since the Greek Government, which presides over Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and since the Health Council this morning, after listening to his sixth appearance since he is playing his role as counsellor. Transparency and good management is what it has conveyed to us since the first time it went up this rostrum — in November 2020 to explain to us the general lines of this legislation — and later — about the pandemic — in February, in April, in May, in August, 2021 and the last one this morning. Galicia and its management is, as it was said in the morning, the example that the Spanish Ministry of Health gave to the rest of the autonomous communities for the reform of primary care. It is the Ministry itself who tells the rest of the communities to follow the steps that Galicia has taken. That is the solution of the socialist government. And, curiously, against those organisational measures taken by Junta to try to tackle this state problem in Galicia, to which the Government of the State gives no solution, the opposition, when brought to this Parliament, wants to suppress them or vote against them. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the coherence of what you are talking about. They'll have to explain headlines like that that that "eighty percent of the MIRs who are trained in Galicia don't end up working in Galicia." We've talked about this before. Ninety percent is left in Galicia, in primary care or in emergency care, and sixty percent has property squares. And indeed there are interintensities, because eventuality in the health system is essential. We can't have eventualities, and that's why you said this morning: because for the gentleman who asks for a day or a week there must be people who cover those squares, because everyone has the right to enjoy their days. And, Mr. Torrado, what I've really heard from you about family medicine -- what you're despising about -- to me personally, I think it's an insult. First, because medicine is a profession that is vocational; and second, because family doctors are vocational. It's a specialty that has four years of training, and in which they form at all. When you're sick, it's where you first go. And that family doctor who is perfectly trained sees a diabetes problem as a problem of hypertension. It seems to me that the doctor who decides to be a family doctor — the head doctors we all know for a lifetime — is to remove their hat — and especially because of the work they are doing in this pandemic. If we talk about transformation of primary care, our community has started that transformation for years. An example of this is the German Plan for the Improvement of Primary Care 2019-2021, which began to manage many years earlier. And in the middle of the pandemic he continued to work. We have heard on many occasions — as I said earlier — both the Health Adviser and the Director-General for Health Planning and Reform — that he has come to the committee — to explain each and every improvement in the transformation that is taking place in this area. And this work has always been critical, consensual to professionals, patient associations and unions, listening to and valuing evas — because there are them — diagnosing the problems and looking for the best way to put them to the best possible solution according to the context in which we found ourselves at every moment. And this is how Galicia is managing the crisis of this pandemic. Look where they're looking at her will always go Galicia one step forward. And, of course, I also want to value the responsibility of the people of Greece, which was also fundamental to this, in conjunction with the professionalism of the whole health sector. This is what the People's Party Government does, and that's what happens in our autonomous community. Another thing is what you want to mess up, what you're trying to do, in order to put the situation in jeopardy. They are anchored in despicableness and confusion, and as much as we strive to explain thoroughly all and every measure, as much as we show each and every one of the data we have in our community, you continue with the same theme: laxity, lack of truth and deaf ears to any true information that can be transmitted. Yours is to try to disallow — by the way, with little success — the capacity of the Greek Government to overcome the circumstances that are taking place along the road. They criticize and alarm the population when, because of the pandemic, they take measures consistent with professionals such as blocking, for example — as happened recently — overdemand for three days. They were in fourteen health centres for three days, but, on the other hand, when in Cantabria a Socialist Party councillor—of his—blocks for almost a month all that is the primary in all health centers, you don't speak. Of course, you have more criteria and can block everything you want for a month. I know yesterday the nursing appointments were reopened, but there is still a lack of primary care and pediatrics to reopen in Cantabria. And I want to make it clear that I, of course, do not criticize the measure. I'm criticizing the incongruity and the little criterion of you, because, according to those who do, they criticize or don't criticize. We're in a pandemic, living exceptional moments, and we can't help but take steps to try to get out of it in the best way possible and try to protect the population. If in Galicia all the data we have are good, I don't understand why we can't all reach our shoulder, or just value the work well done. And, speaking of presence, we have already told you in the committee that we have sufficient resources. And the counselor told you again this morning. Last year we could see how the goal set in the health care management agreements to achieve 60% was met, as long as the pandemic did not condition the number of phone calls that the family doctor should attend. It is clear that no more resources are needed to achieve a face-to-face that responds to the needs of both doctors and patients, since these two officers must decide the conditions in which health care is provided. As you know, because you know it from a few months ago, since any patient — any — who calls his family doctor, can have a presence date or a phone call. And in programmed care professionals also adjust the appointment to the patient's needs, all consensual. You're now asking for the pre-previous presence of the pandemic, when last year they were asking us to withdraw ADX because they thought that set target of 60% was excessive. It is clear, Mr. Torrado, that you cannot talk about presence at a time when an important part of the daily quota figures must be telephoned in order to be able to carry out the follow-up of foster patients. It's really hard to understand, but sometimes they don't seem to be aware of the situation they're living not only in Galicia but throughout the country. They ask for consensus, and for that, the BNG calls for one hundred percent of unconsensual presence with no one. By setting an example, for you to realize the situation -- and the counselor said this morning -- to renew the recipes or for the result of an analytical test, Galicia is perfectly well, and today has many advanced processes in which this is possible. And, of course, I believe that many patients appreciate this non-existence date. I'm a defender of presence, because I'm convinced that in order to make a diagnosis, you have to look at the patient's face, you have to touch it and you have to explore it. But both things can coexist perfectly. The data we have is that, despite the difficulties during these weeks, today 85% of our community's coupons have a four-day appointment, and during the first week of the year it was 81%. And the presence, on November 21, was 57%. As for the choice, the counselor has already told him that he has not worked, and he has even seen that the BNG companion has not supported him at this point. Mr. Torrado, there is something important that if you are working here, which is the management of the demand through the XIDE, I will not talk about this anymore because this morning the advisor for this and other measures has already spoken. And about the need for larger spaces in the waiting rooms and different circuits, I'll tell you that in Galicia all health centers have different circuits, all the safe protocols that need and mark the pandemic are completed. The works are shown with facts. Investments in primary care have improved -- I'm not going to repeat everything the councillor moved us this morning -- and the Greeks trust in the good management that is being carried out by the Government Health Council of Alberto Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u122	I'm done. We can see how the effort continues. Last week we announced the bid for the work of the CIS Olimpia Valencia, of Vigo. It's a pity you're still in the same dynamic of despicable year after year; of course, it's your choice; each one has to see how best it goes with the messages he transmits. For us, it's work, management, transparency and truthfulness, it's never going to be deception, never twisting, that for that you are already. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u124	Thank you, President. For trying to build something about the debate, the fact that an initiative asks for more human resources and assumes that only doctors are being asked to show that this is a completely medic-centred system and that even here we are debating it. Because it is true that, if you ask for more resources and you talk about triage so you can discern the type of case, because it seems reasonable that you are talking about multidisciplinary. Because if we don't, if we choose to just have doctors, what are we choosing if they all go to the same doctor? It would be like putting the trash in different containers so they could all be for the same drawer. We are obviously talking about presence through multidisciplinaryity, if you want to understand; unless you don't want to understand. We can't agree with part of the amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego. Most of it has already been voted on many times, but it will allow the BNG that in this case we want to vote on what we have tabled, not its amendments. We do not agree on some issue, as in the presence of one hundred percent, or in which we can clearly state that people know what a health center needs, because it's not their responsibility to know it really. Otherwise, we'd be unloading on people the responsibility of having that first step of the choice. That's the step so we can start to assume that, well, as they know what they need, they also know what the solution is, and maybe there are some things they don't have to go to the doctor. We do not share their individual responsibility in the health system. And we don't share that it can be said that presence is for those who need it and those who demand it, because they can be contradictory. There may be people who don't need it, but the demand, and there may be people who don't ask for it, but who need it, because they may not know exactly what they need it. We defend the model that we defend, which is to return to the pre-pandemic presence, which worked with reasonable logic. The user demands and the professional evaluates, and in that consensus you can find a solution. Why? Because, in the face of doubt, always presence, always presence. But if you want to renew a recipe, you don't have that much logic either. Even if a patient insists on renewing a prescription in presence, if there is no argument to do so, we understand that the professional has to have the ability to fail. We can't regulate everything you want, but what you need is that it's always more fruitless, but we think it's more realistic. It is true that this leads us to counterposition of the position of the People's Party, which is to defend that everything is working perfectly. I'm sorry you think it's all right and it's all satisfactory. Because the reality is, we don't even have by far the presence that we had, but it's not possible, besides, to have it today. It's impossible for professionals to get it, and for several questions: first, by the model we have and, second, by the resources. Defending that presence is not a matter of resources is making no more traps for the lonely but traps for a lonely person without a fight. If there were so many more resources, it would be easier if we had presence. I think this is quite easy to understand. If where there were three doctors there are fifteen, it's easier for us to have face-to-face, so it's an issue of resources, indisputably. Say no... Nor do we consider that we can make any criticism of someone who proposes the need to incorporate more doctors. Because you'll see, Mrs. Friend, I don't think the argument that family medicine is something vocational is enough. First of all, because it's true that primary care medicine is undervalued by the system. This is evidence. But it's not to disagree in the personal plane — that it's not, you know, it's not. It's evidence, because we can go to MIR calls and students' preferences, we can meet with MIR students, we can interview people who even do family MIR specialization, who do some -- few -- because they had no other choice. That's true, too. Let's be realistic. If we're not realistic, we won't be able to solve the problem. And this happens because the primary specialty is undervalued by the system. I'm not saying you underestimate it, of course, neither am I. We believe in her, but she's undervalued. Because the problem is to leave all the will to that -- which is a milonga like a piano -- that medicine is vocational and family doctors are vocational. The carpenters are also vocational and there's less and less. Why? Because they have fewer jobs and the working conditions are horrible. And in family medicine, something similar happens within the system. The conditions are bad... yes, see if we're going to be wrong now that it turns out that we're a world power and that we have two and a half billion inhabitants and two and a half million of them are carpenters. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if we're gonna do that nonsense here now. There are professions that have less and less because they are undervalued within the system and markets. And within the market which is the National Health System – the Sergas, in this case – and that of the training of professionals primary care is undervalued. You have limited training that you have in order to ask for evidence, they have a huge saturation of schedules, they have lower capacities for progress within the system, and they have less competitive wages than others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u126	And that's why they don't want her. You can choose, they want to do other specialties. This is a truth like a temple. And I'm not going to tell you that in your group you agree with me — that you know they agree with me, and even you. So, from this, we built...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u128	...the system. We can't say other things. It's a question of resources -- and there were cuts -- and it's a model issue, and you're clearly conformists and we're not, that's the difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. I understood I didn't accept the amendment. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, on the management that must be carried out by the Galician Union to develop a plan of shock against labour sinuality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u130	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u131	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u132	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. Worklessness is the frequency with which accidents occur on occasion or as a result of work, which can be caused by an accident, dangerous working methods, lack of security measures, etc. It is an invisible scourge on occasions to which the Socialist Parliament wants to speak in this Parliament. The state and autonomous administrations use statistical analyses to measure labor sinequality, occupational diseases and common continence. This calculation system facilitates the task of tracking and controlling work accidents, what is the source of these accidents and how they happened. It also allows the location of posts with the highest incidence and risk and the most produced sectors. The setting of statistical indices allows us to target targets to reduce accidentalness, compare business results with official indexes per sector, and set indicators to improve working conditions. In this initiative, we will analyse the worrying data of this charity in Galicia. On the Issga page — the Galego Institute for Safety and Labour Health — an autonomous body which is set up as a technical body in the field of job risk prevention and organised to the competent employment advisor — the statistics on work accidents — at this time, the summary of the main results, from January to September 2021. And we take the opportunity to denounce that at least by today's time statistical data should be included, including November, as has already been done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. So we only have closed data for the first half of 2021 when we make annual comparisons. As is stated in the proposal presented in these almost two years of the hideous pandemic, the contradiction between health and life and the pressures to maintain economic activity has been dramatically manifested, a contradiction that, unfortunately, the workers' representatives have to report on many occasions because the daily work is also produced. That's how the figures show, because the work must be decent, decent and quality-free, risk-free. Nobody should have to choose between work and health. Worklessness, despite the decline in work activity due to the crisis that is being motivated by the pandemic, continues to pressure the Italian labour market. There are 24,511 accidents in Galicia in 2020, and 11,211 accidents in the first six months of 2021, which account for 4.2% of the total casualties recorded throughout the state, either because they are victims of accidents at work or, in the worst case, because unfortunately, they failed in their position. There are 59 dead in our autonomous community in 2020, and 18 dead in the first six months of 2021. In November data closed by Issga itself, the lamentable figure amounts to 45 deceased; 41 employees and 4 on their own. And the accident figure today would amount to 24,336. We can only move our support and solidarity from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the families and companions of the people who have died in serious accidents. I say, without fear of being mistaken, that we are concerned about all the groups present in this House. It's the working conditions that are at the origin of this water, especially in a labour market like the Greek, marked by precariousness, as trade union organizations point out. And I'm going to give you some precarious data on the German labour market. In Galicia in 2021 872,427 contracts were signed. Of them only 5,1 % were undefined, specifically 44.188. In the State as a whole, undefined but insufficient contracts have been reported at 6.7%. If they were the same proportion in Galicia, there would be 13,556 more contracts. After the big recession in 2008 and the imposition of austerity policies by the People's Party as the only possible way out of the crisis, we saw the cuts weaken public services that are now becoming essential as public health, as we are talking about today. At the same time, there will be a reduction in investments in the prevention of occupational risks in companies and in the financing of active public policies in preventive matters. Speaking of the budgets of the Galician Union, speaking of the contribution of the Greek Government to the sinequality and the prevention of work risks, and making a comparison in the area of budget shares devoted to prevention, in particular the departure to the 324B Programme, we see that the data reflect that the Government of the People's Party reduces by 44% the budget allocated to prevention. In 2009 at the Council called that work the investment was 14,651.590, and at the Presidency Council, 1,152,912, a total of 15,804,502 million. The Employment Council currently employs 8,049,625, the Presidency, 755,520, a total of 8,805,000. We see a decrease of 44.3%. In the last decade we attended a review of work accidents, the concealment and sub-existence of professional diseases, and we pointed out that the motto of union campaigns was: "labour precariousness kills." According to official data, in the first six months, as I said, 10,991 accidents were mild, but 202 serious. Currently, 352. By provincials, for years, in the same period from January to June, there was an increase in paternality in all provinces except in Pontevedra. In the Coruña it was 4,990 between January and June, 11.78% more, because it was 5,573. In Lugo, 11.3% more; and in Ourense, 6.6% more. By analysing the data for the moment and by bringing the analysis closer to the subsectors that the Ministry offers in its statistics and which are not computed the accident data in itinerary, the reality is that the service sector leads to the worst part, 48.8% of the disability. And in particular, trade is leading, with 1,389 claims, followed by administrative and auxiliary activities, with 904, etc. After this, the high incidence of sinlessness in this sector is found the high temporality they register in the recruitment, which causes many workers not to receive the necessary training in preventive matters and that many companies do not monitor the health of their strength at work. In the case of industry, the total number of losses was 2,636; in construction, 1,643 and 157 in other supply companies, such as energy. It is clear that those workers and workers who have been at the forefront of this pandemic, who have not ceased their activity, are the ones most affected by sinisterness. It's already been in 2020 and they're still on record in the first six months of this year. As for incidence rates, that is, the relationship that measures fatal accidents with the number of social security affiliates in Galicia between January and June 2021, this was 0.271 points above the state average, which is 0.251. Highlight the case of Pontevedra, where it reaches 0.385 points, and Ourense with 0.336 points. It must be reiterated that the high timeliness of recruitment means that many workers do not receive training in preventive matters or the necessary monitoring of health by companies, both mandatory issues under the Labour Risk Prevention Act; accidents and incidents at work that are directly or indirectly the result of inadequate working conditions. They are based on a business model that ignores the protection of the safety and health of workers, supported by competitiveness and lack of investment in prevention, as well as the frequent absence of a real and effective prevention plan that aspires to something more than a mere preventive document to avoid administrative sanctions. On the other hand, the increase in psychosocial risks due to the terrible working conditions causes one of the most important causes of death during the working day to be strokes and strokes, as well as the report by Isgsa referred to in the year 2020; the last published in full to the Galician Union. As far as we are concerned, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia presents this initiative to urge the Galician Union to set up an immediate plan to impact workers on the social dialogue table to achieve measures that put an end to this situation, to analyse the reduction in the incidence of psychosocial risks among the working population, resulting from the fact that the first cause of death during the working day, as I said before, are the strokes and strokes associated with this type of disease...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u133	You have to finish, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u134	...and I'm done with risks. I conclude by calling for approval, the vote in favour of this proposal from the groups present in the House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the other groups. Mr. Pérez López speaks for the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u136	President. A world without labor and occupational disease is possible. Diseases and accidents in places of work are not fruit of fate, of chance, of bad luck, but are the result of specific causes. Without a doubt, companies have an obligation to pay more attention to the health risks that affect the safety and well-being of workers and workers. This says Joachim Breuer, president of the International Social Security Association. From the studies of this body, it can be concluded that the investments made by companies in the prevention of risks and occupational health by their workers are highly profitable in economic terms directly quantifiable, considering that for each euro invested in prevention a return of at least two euros is achieved, apart from being an important competitive factor that enables companies to have a healthy and motivated workforce. This message does not appear to be silent within the Spanish State and much less in the Government of Greece, which has transferred — it must be remembered — the competences in policies for the prevention of risks and occupational health for many years, but which they have only exercised, in the light of the data of sinlessness that we have. While in the framework of the European Union labour inequality falls in most developed countries and does so over time, but does so on a steady and progressive basis, in the Spanish State, sinality undergoes constant changes in relation to economic cycles. What does that mean? The higher economic activation, the higher the incidence of accidents at work, and the lower economic activity or recession, the lower the incidence rate. This disparate step in relation to the rest of the surrounding countries shows the shortcomings of the Spanish preventive system, characterized, among other issues, and on the contrary that the rest of Europe, by a more externalized prevention, in which companies deal with and contract their prevention to specialized private entities, the so-called "foreign prevention services", which means that companies are often not, on many occasions, active and direct subjects of the safety of their workers. But there are more differences with the rest of the European countries. There is an inefficient legislation and regulations that companies implement in a lax and merely formal way to cover the legal appearance of doing good, and an insufficient public and business investment in the prevention of risks and occupational health, motivated by the fact that prevention costs continue today to be regarded as a serious cost and not as an investment. Also directly related to the previous one, there is a lack of real preventive culture that prevents prevention from being integrated into all plants and into the business activity of companies. We also have insufficient inspectoral action as a result mainly of the lack of human and material means, propitiated by political lines followed by the governments of turn. And an inefficient sanctions system. In addition, we have a system for controlling IT casualties, for professional continence, for mutual assistance, which does not stop using business criteria and thus save money to companies themselves and to social security, by not recognizing in bloody and palm cases a very important part of the work accidents and occupational diseases that occur, which clearly prevents quantification of sinality and therefore conditions any attempt to solve the problem. Although it was already in 1995 when the General Prevention Act was enacted, there is still no culture of prevention in many companies. And guilt must also be sought in the low political interest that this culture exists. The figure of the prevention delegate remains today for many workers and workers a completely unknown character. In addition, depending on the type, age, sector, qualification, size and type of company, type of contract or age of the company, the knowledge of this prevention delegate varied. For this reason, Galicia's case is terrible when it comes to prevention and occupational health. We have a structural labour market such as temporality and bias, seasonality, over-dependence in the service sector, a labour market that enshrines labour precariousness above all in the group of young people and women, and this is the perfect broth for workers to go to their wide corners. In the year 2019, before the pandemic, our country consolidated a profile of high charity, largely as a result of the lack of political action of this PP government in the area of risk prevention and occupational health, but also of budgetary rooting in this area. This year, our country occupied the first post of the ranking of labor claims with the result of death in the Spanish state as a whole, practically doubling the average rate of the state. Of the workers who died in Galicia in 2019, 43% were workers with temporary contracts, when this collective assumes 26% of the workers subject to this contractual modality. What's this coming to mean? Which is undeniable the correlation between temporality and working precariousness with work accidents as a result of death. In 2020, due to the declaration of the state of alarm from March, there has been a significant reduction in economic activity, and as we noted earlier, this reduction has also been accompanied by a contraction in employment accidents. Even so, in the first quarter of 2020, Galicia has again reached the first position of the State in the incidence rate of fatal labour accidents: 17 people working in Galicia dead as a result of its work, in a context - which must be remembered - of paralyzing work in our productive sectors. In the incidence data, by autonomous communities, during the period from December 2020 to November 2021, which is the last measure, Galicia reported 47 fatal accidents, again occupying the first jobs of the State. In this dubious honour, the PP plays a decisive role, which in twelve years of Mr. Feijóo's government has found that we have consolidated ourselves in the first places of social inequality and not prevention. In the face of this persistent and disastrous preventive situation affecting the working class in Galicia as a whole, the PP was unable to implement public policies on job risk prevention and safety at work, and the numbers are painfully singing in the form of fatal work accidents. As he also sings, and shows the commitment of the PP government to this problem, that in the 2022 budgets, in the middle of the pandemic, the game dedicated to improving the organization and administration of labour relations and prevention is lowered. If at least the preventive muscle of our business tissue, in which there is a majority of micro-enterprises and small businesses, and the little preventive culture of our productive tissue, in which prevention continues to be viewed as a expense rather than an investment, we add to the little political importance that has been given to risk prevention and labour security in the years of the PP government, in Galicia we can understand what the current situation is. For BNG the prevention of occupational risks and safety and health at work constitute essential and indispensable elements for the working class within the framework of a just and democratic society. The already targeted deficiencies in the current system of prevention, in conjunction with the labour reform carried out by the PP and also by the PSOE in the years 2010 and 2012, turn the majority of the working class to the work precariousness and to levels of totally unacceptable social and labour deprotection; which together with the political inaction to promote public, preventive and effective policies, is turning labour deficiency into a structural feature of the Greek productive system, which is aggravated by the historical failure of human and economic resources destined by the Government of the GPP to prevention policies. It is therefore essential to address the reconfiguration of the framework of labour relations and the current system for the prevention of work risks, both by economic intelligence and by social justice, especially by the latter. Working can never take a risk. There is room for improvement, and that's why the Interunion Confederation Galaga, the IGC, promoted in 2021 the creation of a technical commission on serious and deadly accidents in Galicia, in which it participates the Employment and Equality Council, the Issga and social agents, with the aim of analysing the causes and promoting actions necessary to reduce work accidents. Because it is in the legally constituted bodies, such as the Issga and the Galego Council of Occupational Safety and Health, with specific competences in the field of promotion, advice and monitoring of safety and occupational health, where this shock plan should be promoted. These are the legitimate forums where all social agents and the German Government themselves are represented. That is why it is surprising — and so we have to tell you — that is the decisive part of this initiative that we have amended. To push this necessary plan against sinlessness, through the ill-called Bureau of Social Dialogue, seems more like an attempt, in this case of the PSdEG, to settle accounts with whom is the majority union in Galicia, the IGC -- and this is to blame those who care about it -- trying to leave it out of play, perhaps because the IGC is very critical of the unannounced labour reform recently, which consolidates the most harmful elements of the 2012 labour reform of the People's Party, positioning that the BNG shares without ambiguities. The non-reform of labour which was agreed at a table called the social dialogue, which is a forum - one must remember - absolutely informal that replaces the role of legitimate institutions such as the State Economic and Social Council, in which all trade unions participate with the most representative condition, introduces minimal improvements, but consolidates the reform of 2012, and thus expressed a satisfactory employer and even the FAES Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician PSOE, they comply with their commitments and make it possible to agree in the state parliamentary sphere a text that really means to regain rights for the working class in Galicia. Don't fall into the mistake of confusing yourself as an enemy. Let's not cheat or try to set goals on this sensitive subject, and above all, they don't disappoint the popular classes and the majority of society in this country. They accept our amendment, which is absolutely in line with the need for a plan of shock against worklessness, but which must be promoted in forums that have specifically assigned competences in the field of promotion, counselling and monitoring of safety and occupational health, the Issga and the Galego Council of Safety and Labour Health. The rest, this Bureau of Social Dialogue, all it does is legitimize the policies that have proved absolutely ineffective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u137	You have to finish, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u138	...of PP, drawing out topics as sensitive as that of the labor sinequality of the institutions themselves and legitimates where they should be treated, and breaking a consensus that was so far historical in a matter as sensitive as that of labor sinequality. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u139	Thank you, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a general rule, to this parliamentary group, to the People's Group - and I am also sure that I can even speak on behalf of the German Government - we always find it appropriate to open a constructive debate which has as its horizon an impact on the culture of preventing accidents at work. All workers have the right to develop our professional activity with safety and health, and whenever there's an accident at work, it means that something has failed; so it means there's room for improvement. However, we believe that both in Spain and in our community we have very significant tools and progress in this area. In the design of the current regulatory and technical structure in the area of risk prevention, not only the Galician Union are involved, through the Employment Council, but also the rest of the administrations, including the Central Government, as well as trade unions and business organisations. There is therefore an entire regulatory conglomerate that counts on the participation of social agents and that is subject to periodic review and updating, among other reasons, to incorporate all the technical innovations that allow the work to be done more safely. For example, in Galicia we have many reasons to be proud of the work of the effort and the level of professionals who are part of the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, Issga, an example for the rest of Spain, internationally recognized, but above all allied to the workers and workers in Greece. We saw it during the toughest months of the pandemic, where even the workers and workers in Greece had guides, instructions and technical advice on how to make the work centers safer in the presence of the virus, and we had them thanks to Issga, even before the Ministry of Labour and Health developed their guides. As you know, Your Honor, Galicia has always been a step forward. In Galicia we anticipate ourselves, a determining factor in the sound management of the pandemic. So, Your Honor, we can't share, nor are we identified with that Galicia in black that you always describe in your speeches when it comes to discussion in the field of work. And with this I don't mean that there are no problems and areas with margin of improvement, but it's not fair -- and it's not entirely honest -- to take advantage of biased, selected statistics, to give the result that you're always interested in, always negative. And I'm going to try to sum up briefly what I think you guys are wrong about. First, you omit -- and I don't want to think that I deliberately do it -- that there's a correlation between the increase in jobs and the increase in work losses. If you compare time periods - which, under the circumstances of the pandemic, there were confinements and reduced industrial activity - with the current situation or with the most recent months, in which the economy and our industry were reactivating, with all logic you will understand that accidents are increasing. But if you go to the latest official data from the year 2021, which are those from January to November, you'll see that 11.76% of fatal accidents have been reduced in the working day, going from 54 to 45, and being accidents by non-traumatic pathologies 23 of these 45. And both in construction and in services, the increase in accidents you cited has been accompanied by the increase in the number of affiliates. But the incidence of incidents is lower than their increase. In construction, accidents had an increase of 14% and an incidence of 11%. In services, the increase in accidents was almost 21% and the incidence of 18%. And in areas like fishing, accidents have been reduced by about 5%, from 715 to 680. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, the largest number of people working, more likely to increase the number of accidents. Secondly, you explain that the main cause of the death of workers is infarctions, and you construct a whole theory by virtue of which stress or labor pressure for precarious employment are the causes of infarction and stroke. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, there is nothing that causes more stress and pressure from a worker than to be unemployed. Nothing causes you more stress or more pressure, especially when you have to pay a mortgage or you have to pay a lot of bills. [[Applause]] And that, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of stress and depression for leaving the workers unemployed, you are truly smart, the socialists, the Socialist Party, because you are the champions of unemployment. [[Laughter]] The Socialist Party is the champion of unemployment. Nor is it true that the number of accidents is the result of the lack of training and of fewer jobs. In our autonomous community there is a whole system of training in prevention which is to be respected — I repeat, it is to be respected — even in contracts of less time and responsibility, while in the Socialist Party we already know what you are devoting to the money for training. You ask your friends in Andalusia, who at the moment even had to return — even less bad!, even less bad!, and we're not going to talk about the rest — more than a billion euros in the training policies for the workers. I'm done. We are not going to support this initiative. We will vote against it, because you, besides fundamental in untrue data, which we have just demonstrated and which do not correspond to real Galicia, but to that black Galicia, would imagine the opposition, you try to retain value from the work done by the German Government. And they should know that at present if there is a Welsh health and safety strategy at work in Galicia, agreed in the Bureau of Social Dialogue, strategy extended during 2021 and 2022, with the consensus of social agents, as soon as the Spanish Strategy is being negotiated, which is the document that will serve as the basis. This strategy is developed mainly through the successive action plans of the Institute of Labour Safety and Health, Issga, and on an annual basis, the activities contained in the action plan are agreed upon and remembered. These activities are the subject of debate, complementing the approaches and agreeing with trade union and business organizations. And in fact, I can tell you that you're even agreeing to the Issga Action Plan by the year 2022, and you're going to approve it in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Of course, behind accident data, there are always people; therefore, we will always have the greatest respect. It is an obligation of all, and of business administrations, to ensure the health and safety of workers, in addition to the duty of cooperation, information and labour surveillance. But Your Honor, I have to tell you that it is simply a fallacy to say, as stated in the non-law proposition, that the general rule is that there are workers without effective legal protection. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u141	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u142	Sorry, I don't have to reaffirm myself, but I have to correct myself: thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u143	To close the debate of this non-law proposal, you have the floor of your author, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u144	Thank you, President. I'm going to take a sentence that I said in the first part of my speech without getting the attention of the President of Parliament, because I said textually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u145	One moment, Mrs. Rodríguez. Aren't you listening?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u146	It's just that I was wearing the mask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u147	Oh, sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u148	Better now. Nothing, I said I'd take a sentence I said in my first intervention, without getting attention. I have to withdraw it because, in particular, I said, "Without fear of error, we are concerned about all the groups in this House." Then I'll take it back, I'll take it back! It seems to worry the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also the Galician Nationalist Block, but nothing to the People's Party. Nothing! Because the phrase of "Nothing causes more stress to a person than to be unemployed" is to laugh at the people who have been killed in accidents, at people who have suffered severe injuries with sequels, which you know, Mr. Balsairo, who are left for life, with everything that happens to that person, his family and those conditions, also in the economic aspect. [[Applause]] So to say that is to expose a problem that exists. And I don't want to go into if there's 5 or 7 more dead in the state incidence index; it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. As long as there are deaths in Galicia due to labor casualties, the Greek Government has to be on this subject, it has to be on this topic! Because coming to this forum is to say specifically: that Mrs Dacosta uses data that are really... the data is published by the Issga and the Ministry, no more or less. But the important thing was not specifically the higher rate of fatal accidents or serious accidents we have in Galicia. It wasn't that, it was much more than that. In relation to the Galego Nationalist Block and the amendment, I fully understand that the plan has to count on the Issga and the Galician Council, obviously; then, in that case, we agree. But I am firm for social dialogue, social dialogue in Galicia and social dialogue in the state as well. And I also think it is necessary to approve the labour reform promoted by the Government of the State and agreed on by social agents, trade unions and employers in relation to this issue, because it is due to a fair recovery, because it reduces the temporality - in this case it is going to affect sinality - because it strengthens the creation of quality employment and offers legal security to businesses and because it translates into a reform that will allow us to cut down the two main wastes we have in Galicia, which are precariousness and unemployment; unemployment, Mr Baleiro. That is why one of the first measures, as you know, is the penalty for short-term recruitment, encouraging indefinite employment and stable employment. This new framework will reduce the number of types of contracts, generalizing the indefinite contract, limiting to three months a year to temporary recruitment and promoting the figure of the contract made discontinuance, fighting precariousness and against sinality. What happens is that the People's Party says: look, if we have work, even if it's precarious, we have to thank you. It's just that I don't know if they know what psychosocial risks are, but lengthen the days because it's a precarious job and I can't protest, because I have a bad service organization or because I'm not trained, that's what the People's Party does; it doesn't matter whether the index goes up a little bit, which isn't going up, by the way, because we have 21,000 work accidents. Lexislar for Thursdays in Galicia, so that they have a stable working horizon, would also, without a doubt, help work accidents to decrease. The working conditions that we see being subjected to — as the workers and workers of subcontracting companies said — are of concern, which are still far from reaching the level of dignity and quality that is mandatory today, and that is also if you have to occupy the German Government, because you have the skills transferred, I think. One of the conditions that has been aggravated by the implementation of the reform of the People's Party was precarious, without a doubt, and that's in the statistics. The Socialist Parliamentary Group insists on the need to create a new framework for labour which ceases from the abuse of temporality, with the involuntary bias, Mr Balsairo, while a balanced collective bargaining framework is being recovered. And that framework of social dialogue in which trade unions would be involved, the relevant councils on the subject, and obviously the Issga, as the Nationalist Block says, will be crucial for the immediate visibility and action of sinlessness. Only a positive proposition was requested, but it doesn't matter what is brought to this House. We bring a positive proposition, but they always say they're not; they're either doing or they're going to do or they're not worried. In this case, unfortunately, we have an accountant of shame, as the unions say, for all: 45 workers who have died for failure to comply with regulations, but that needs a plan in Galicia, a plan that adopts the Employment Council with social agents and also with technical bodies in charge of the subject matter. They don't want to do it because they don't want to worry about unemployment, precaution, or labourlessness. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u149	Mrs. Rodríguez, do you understand that you accept the amendment? Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u150	Let's trade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u151	Ah!, they traded. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u152	We moved on to the third non-legislative proposal of the agenda. Proposal on the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Italian Government in the face of the increase in cases covered by 19 in educational centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u153	To defend the non-law proposition, Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u154	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. On January 10th, we went back to class, and the chronicle of the daily parts of a new pandemic—and now there are six—warmed the need to put one point and the other. Despite the considerable advance in the general vaccination of adults and those recently initiated in children, this new wave is characterized by the high contagious incidence of the omicron variant, with the consequent increase of quarantines between students and also of casualties among teachers, either because they are positive or because they are direct contacts of positives, or because they have to care for their families in their homes as well. The lessons from experience and epidemiological reports are there to help most of all avoid errors and plan better. But we already know that human beings are the only animal able to stumble several times on the same stone, and it will also be true that in the case of the People's Party this maximum is fulfilled. They don't want to learn, they don't seem to be the first, the second, the third, neither the fourth, nor the fifth, nor now the sixth wave of this pandemic. [[Applause]] January 10 opens the curtain and begins the second act of this course, which could well be titled "Educate in busy times." The Government of the People's Party — the main leader of this work — opts to save resources and to maintain the previous scenario as if nothing had happened. One point and then. "What tactics do we follow?", asks a member of the scripting team. "Our own brand, the style "will do you," returns the command. "What if it goes wrong again?" "We'll see who's to blame. We have enough practice to raise the accusing finger towards someone, and humility, none. We, we're still in our bubble." End of scene. Suspended mode activated at the beginning of a course with the worst pandemic incidence data in our country until now over two years. Ten thousand cases identified of covid among minors in the previous two weeks, 13,000 positive covid to start this course on January 10, between students and contaminated teachers. Of course, it remains to be said that they are public data. Just before Christmas, the figures were 3,000 people infected. So the question arises, in view of the differential of this data: wasn't it justified to restart the course of the new year by making a point and aside, by changing the course? I don't think so. The People's Party decides to open educational centres as if nothing had happened at Christmas, re-inciding in improvisation, lack of planning and, above all, in the main roadmap: in the reduction of teachers in schools and schools. Who would tell us that this happened when there were five previous vacancies and a pandemic of almost two years in progress? How could something be predicted again? Prevention and caution are BNG recipes, indeed. The People's Party often makes fun of these considerations. We have warned you again in September in this Parliament, in appearance, in the commission of the Education Counsellor, but the adviser, however, has made absolutely certain that we are in a perfect transit course towards normality. And he denied the need to make any changes, in this current course, to continue justifying and evaluating his repeated and proposed policy of cutting and eliminating educational squares in our educational centers. Here, then, we are on a stage between questions in the teacher, in the student, in the management teams, in the families, at the beginning of this second quarter, in which they are aggravating themselves—it could not be otherwise—the problems generated since the beginning of this course: lack of planning, massive classes, especially in the cities—I believe that they do not come back here to reiterate these biased ratios with those they usually intend to confuse society—; lack of teachers, for an absolutely ineffective management of casualties; leaving roles of the board of Galicia, which delegate all responsibility always to others, or to families or teachers or to management teams, or in Madrid — which may be a little further away, but sounds better—... Conclusion: Falls again in the management of the pandemic in educational centres. But, like, the solution always ends up coming, and the word comes back again: protocol, or rather successive protocols; without guide, that's right, so we don't lose each other and know what we have to do at every moment. Total, while protocol goes and protocol comes, teaching teams stop talking about the really important: pedagogical coordination, attention to diversity, the reinforcement of tutorial care, the follow-up of suicide prevention plans, which are increasingly present in daily educational activities. Or, like, to try to dismiss that innate and persistent ability of the People's Party to reduce teachers one more year. And all this in a second year of pandemic of health vulnerability and, above all, social, economic and emotional imbalance in our educational centers. The case was not to talk about this Christmas of the truly important, I insist: how we will be able to implement, with the maximum guarantees, the presence, something that has never, of course, been put into question. Because if something has taught us the pandemic — and I truly believe it — is that the house is not a school and that a computer, however good it is, does not replace a teacher. The U.S.'s refusal to maintain such successful developments in the past course, the U.S.'s refusal to extend beyond December the contracts of Professor Arc, initially for the first quarter of school, but that in its majority arrived at the centres well-established in November, the decision to reduce or cancel teacher replacement appointments throughout the month of December, left hundreds of pupils and students without proper attention; and, of course, the organization of educational centres in chaos, and even breaking that blockage that we were always told they had to be the bubbling groups. [[Applause]] Because you know -- I think you should know -- that, once a teacher or a teacher is missing in a classroom, that student is attended all day by different teachers and teachers; therefore this protective consideration of the bubbling group completely disappeared. The call to be a transitional course — in the words of the adviser — is indeed the accelerated transition course to nowhere and the entry door or a new entry door to that place which is the systemic devaluation of the public education in Greek. The People's Party understood that Christmas was a vacation time for the Education Council, and instead of anticipating the problem, that we saw how it would grow day by day and that it would inevitably have an impact on the return to school in January, it continued to be like who, installed in the country of biosbards and spending his time asking them for the other duties made, the ability to be of the state — which many responsibilities would also have –; recognizing, ultimately, its inability or unwillingness to assume the competences in education that are their own, and also exclusive. What we are living through are the consequences of the decisions taken at the beginning of the course already: reducing physical distance, extending student ratios, delaying health protection, with undue delay in the general distribution of masks in teaching, particularly FFP2 for the caregiver, for teachers and teachers of child education, and for teachers of therapeutic pedagogy and hearing and language - disinformation for families and chaos in the management of lower teachers, confusion about the indications of case tracking and decisions to be taken at every moment before the contacts and contacts, the lack of knowledge of the follow-up to the virtual teaching plan of what they have spoken to the student, from the moment it is confined in individual form or well at the moment when the classes are closed, and the lack of control, uncertainty and excessive bureaucracy that does not lead to anywhere the teacher. End of representation. The higher incidence of the pandemic, the lower endowment of the teacher. The Union does not change its strategy of reducing teachers or reducing budgets — we see it again in the budgets of the year 2022 — to deal with the pandemic; an irresponsibility that we are paying, turning schools into chaos that doubles in the lives of families; always placing, that is, the teacher as the shield of bad administration. The experience gained in the management of the pandemic in these two years should lead to the immediate revision of the school organization, bringing in human and material resources that prevent more than once again the virus of ignorance, neglect and educational exclusion from Greek society. Let us not forget, please, the conclusions of the recent study by the University of Vigo, which confirms — yes, confirm — and endorses the abandonment of the student at risk of exclusion during the pandemic. Compromising the Government with sufficient human and material resources to meet health and educational guarantees, whether in person or in virtual education, in cases of closing classes or partial confinement of the student, is what we have demanded from the BNG with this non-legislative proposal and we hope to count on the positive vote of the two parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To stand on this non-law proposal, it is the turn of the Socialist Party. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that you repeat with this initiative one that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brought to plenary this House nothing more and nothing less than June 26 last year; that is, almost seven months ago. At that initiative, we call on the Galician Council to keep the 2021-2022 course at least the same number of teachers as in the current course — i.e. the previous course — irrespective of the increase in education supply. In that sense, of course, the arguments raised at that time are still the same as those at this time. I believe that ensuring face-to-faceness in the education system is a shared objective by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and by the various autonomous communities - the Council of Galicia, of course, included - and I have no doubt about that. Everyone we know about the world of education knows about the difficulties you mentioned in your intervention on the activation of virtual education; difficulties that occur in many areas. Obviously, that digital gap that we assumed existed was manifest, but it showed its toughest face when the student -- and the teacher too -- had to move on to a virtual education. As you say, a computer, no matter how good it is, will never replace a teacher; a good platform, no matter how good it is, will never replace present education, and therefore multiple difficulties: staffing, access to the network, difficulties in the students themselves, a certain degree of digital illiteracy in a seemingly digital generation and also difficulties on the part of the professor himself to face a new situation. So there was an impressive effort in the previous course by the entire educational community to deal with this situation. But I'm also convinced that there's a real will to make space education centers safe. It is true that this hardly fits into a reduction in professorship that is at this moment absolutely undeniable and that the People's Party itself does not question. And I say that the People's Party itself doesn't question because, despite the confusion ceremony that we attended at the counsellor's appearance at the beginning of this course in September last year, we were the ones who, after getting out -- not without some difficulty -- what was being said to us, of, first, seeing that the counselor used as a reference to justify an apparent increase in a prepandemic course, the course 2019-2020. And there they said there was an increase in that course. And, of course, if we overcome the pandemic and its incidence in educational centers, I think we're completely wrong in everything we do next, because we're assuming as axiom something that's not true. Therefore, starting from that inconsistent axiomatic system, we find ourselves in this situation. We found ourselves reduced, with respect to the previous course — and I'm talking about the pandemic course — by nothing more and nothing less than 453 teachers. And the Council was trying to say that there was an increase, with respect to the 2019-2020 course, of 220 teachers and 625 secondary education; that is, they felt that, of these 625, 110 were to facilitate transit towards a coherent digitization of educational institutions. But of course, what's the problem? We all know that those 110 teachers who were hired to reinforce digitization don't give classes and therefore they shouldn't compute for purposes of saying that we have more teachers in the classroom. And in the budgets this year that have just been approved in this House there are 868 teachers less. Here, of course, I know I'm wasting my time, time worthy of the worthy members of this House, because I've seen my companion Julio Torrado talk about the budgets, talk about the reduction in primary care, and the Government denies that there is such a reduction. So, if budgets are a lie, we could save a lot of time in their processing, lots of hours of reading and telling the Government: look, do what you think, which for that has an absolute parliamentary majority enough. But behind this reduction in budgets and in reality of centers, we know what there is, we know that there are hardly defending groups of children and primary education students, we know that there is a reduction in supply in secondary education, we know that there are difficulties, when not an absolute breakdown, of a minimum principle of equality, because it turns out that a student in Becerrea cannot study French because there are not enough students. Why are you going to study French with a Bécerreà student? What need do you have? With English, Spanish, and some English, it's too bad you don't fix it, but French is also necessary. This is the reality that we have behind all these figures that I just referred to. Never had you ever lived a start of a course so cliché with regard to the offer and grouping of students, and that is the obvious consequence of that reduction of teachers that we ask it not to take place already — as I said earlier — in June last year. I know they won't like it, but they're figures — and I don't get tired of repeating it, no success at all — from the Administration itself, they're data from the Education Council itself. But the truth is that this demonistic political artillery that turned out to be the two-party government in 2009, 1,439 teachers more than at the moment, looks like doctors. Well, that's the reality. What could be avoided? Yes. Did the Government of Galicia have sufficient economic resources to ensure that this situation did not happen? You too. What didn't he want? Of course! As a result, I believe that your initiative — which is bad for you and us — is doomed to fail. But there is one thing that if you wanted to nuance with respect to your argument and with respect to your initiative. It's true that you registered the initiative on December 2nd last year. It is true that at that time we were beginning to attack in a way that could be the gravity of this sixth wave of the coronavirus. And it is true that some voices were already heard saying that we were facing a vertical wall — using the simile to interpret the charts of incidence of that pandemic in society. But I don't like — and I tell you from the point of view — the feeling that the educational centres in Galicia and the rest of the state are unsafe places from the health point of view, which are places where there are massive contagions. And I say this because, if we look at the public figures you referred to, we can see that, if there were actually 13,891 active cases in the educational centres — which came up to 22.1% of the entire infected community — a week later they were reduced to 10,453 — so they would fall to 13.3%. It is true that there are more closed classes, but that can also be a consequence — I say, because I do not know — of the very application of the protocols, because, as you know — just like me — when in small classes there are 20 percent infected students, the protocol is automatically activated and that class is closed. I'm saying it can be an explanation, because the number of cases is considerably lower. I say this because it seems important to me that we do not sow the impression that educational centres are places where infections occur massively. It is true that they are centers where a very close cohabitation takes place for many hours a day between teachers and students, and it is also true that the teacher and students suffer the consequences — especially in these last few weeks — of absolutely indecent temperatures from the point of view of being there giving class. But I think we do little favor to society if we move that there is an additional risk in educational institutions right now, because I think the data, objectively, do not believe it either. Having said that, of course, we — with this tone that I have just made on this point — are going to support this initiative, because it coincides with what our group defended, as I said, seven months ago. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u157	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Then, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u158	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early. The truth is, if the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Bloc so much coincide, they were also able to take advantage of this GNP to claim to Pedro Sánchez's government the 90 million euros that he cut to the Greek education system in this course by nullifying the order of aid from the fund covered for the recruitment of teachers. And, of course, in view of this cut, the Galician board provides 140 million extra, additional euros, in this course 2021-2022 for the education system, to improve measures and also to recruit the professor. [[Applause]] So this is reality, though I know you don't like it. Look, since the beginning of the course, the Union's priority has always been to take measures, both urgent and ordinary, to combat the effects of the covid, always taking into account the evolution and also the characteristics of the virus. And the measures were taken in the light of the work of the experts on the Clinical Committee and also of the coordination framework with the autonomous communities. To reinforce this work Galicia has also set up an educational committee. This GNP, in the end, comes only to reiterate the criticisms of the usual, the same series, which, of course, repeat the same repertoire. So much so that the Galego Nationalist Block reproduces the same as the header union, the IGC-teaching union, at the beginning of the course, without taking into account neither the evolution nor the characteristics of the pandemic right now. And when the incidence of cowardice increases in society in general, of course, it also increases the number of positives associated with the educational community. That's right. And the truth is that you are very demanding with the Council of Galicia, but the real cuts to which the education system is subjected are those perpetrated by the State, and with the complicit silence of the BNG, Mrs. Complaints. Because, moreover, education is not an exclusive competition from the autonomous communities, which is a shared competition. Or do you not know the Education Act, in which the ratios in the education system — which must be changed by law — are defined? And if they change for law, they have to be financed. The last law, LOMLOE, didn't change them because they had to be financed. And the state didn't want to finance them. He's responsible for financing them; therefore, sorry you came here for the exclusive competences of the Galician Union. But, look, it's 90 million euros, because the state didn't call the aid order in this course. And, therefore, it seems to me that you present here this LNP to, in some way, wash your face because of the unfortunate silence that you have faced with this cut. Because you didn't say anything at all, you were absolutely quiet — and your head union is exactly the same — when you protested all the autonomic presidents — even those of the Socialist Party — when you protested all the unions there were and because they were in the context of education in Spain. You really didn't say anything because they didn't care that the Government of the State punished Galicia and, above all, because the data are very clear: in the course of 2020-2021 there were 162 million extra euros to maintain the education system, 82 of them by the Council of Galicia and 82 by the Government of Spain — which in that year was committed. But in the course of 2021-2022 there are 140 million additional euros placed by the Galician Union; and the state, zero, Euro! Zero euro placed by the state and 140 million euros contributed entirely by the Galician Union. It is clear, therefore, that you are very demanding of the Union but nothing demanding of the Government of the State. You're accomplices, you're accomplices of the state government. And I'd like the second intervention to explain to us that complicit silence. In fact, it was mentioned here that on June 26 in this House there was a GNP that was debated. But I also tell you that you were able to support the amendment tabled by the People's Party in which we agreed to maintain the same number of teachers in this course, whenever the health-sanitary measures were maintained by the health authorities, and in which the Government made effective the provision of specific resources from the educational fund so that it could be used for recruitment. And of course, this comes to make sure that you guys on June 26 already knew that the state was going to cut this program and would not call that much-needed aid order for the education system. Of course, this is where we talked about data, that's right. And I agree perfectly with the Socialist Party. The classes ended on December 22nd with three thousand infections in the educational community and resumed on June 10th with thirteen thousand infections. So this believes it doesn't matter in the education system. I think there's a bit of rigour left, Mrs. Complaints. It is not serious to link the increase in cases to the lack of a teacher, because the same protocol is being applied in the past course. And you can't mix a union claim at the cost of generating an alarm state in as sensitive an area as education. You don't solve everything with more teachers, which is the magic recipe you always have. In this case it's settled with more vaccines, and so it's more than believed. Galicia is a leader in child vaccination. 81% of children aged 5 to 12 have at least one dose. It's also like what happened to the workers after Christmas — what you referred to, Mrs. Complaints — that there was an increase in work casualties. And in the case of low school teachers in Junta, he set up an express system to cover them with the greatest possible agility, so that we could respond to the education system. Like there was no planning? Of course there was!, and these casualties were covered — 1,900 casualties in an immediate time, in the first week of the course around Christmas. So we're at a certain point of normality, but we can't go down the guard either. We're a week after Christmas and we can say, within the exceptional situation, that the education system is running, that the presence is being guaranteed. Galicia faced this round with planning and, of course, the fact that she was a leader in child vaccination, in anticipation of the problems. The Board made available to all families free testing for all children from 5 to 11 years of age, thus ensuring a safer return to classes. But tests of saliva antigens were also sent to educational centers. Health protocols have been working for months and are being complied with. And of course, the entire educational community ratifys that educational centers are safe space. Protocols and preventive measures did not vary in this course in relation to the previous course in children and primary. So the truth is, if something has changed, indeed, it was that time management protocol that actually arrived once the school course was started, which, of course, could have arrived before, because there were no extra funds or the time management protocol at the time when the course began. You're raising three points in this LNP. The first is to take the necessary measures as a matter of urgency to avoid the increase in cases covered. They are adopted and adopted consensually in the cross-sectoral commission of 27 August, and are renewed in the light of the cross-sectoral commission of 4 January this year. Therefore, and in the cutting-off mode, instruments for detection of the virus were made available, as I have just said, for children's population: pharmacies tests and saliva tests in centers. But, I don't know, say you then here in the second intervention which are the necessary measures for you, make the proposal. I hope it's more accurate than what they did in the past course, because they both said that the education system should be completely shut down and soon afterwards they manifested themselves so that there would be total presence in the education system. So you have to be serious, you have to be strict. The Galician Union is being and therefore it is the work that corresponds. In point 2 you speak of providing the resources necessary to ensure education. They are already equipped even if you say no, even if the Government of the State refused to raise more funds, even if they refused the amendment tabled by the People's Party to secure funds for the recruitment of the professor. And in view of that, 140 million euros -- that is, 40% more of the increase in the educational guarantee reserve fund to shield educational centers. And indeed that of the professor, Mr. Álvarez, you forgot to say something. I mean, he talked about 1,400 more teachers but he didn't talk about the number of students. And that also has to be taken into account, because state data say Galicia is the community in Spain that most students have. So that's a reality -- sorry, it's the one that most teachers have about their number of students -- together with Extremes. And that's a reality. I know that this data bothers you, but that's what's going on. That's the way it is, and we don't say it, the state itself says it. So, finally, the public system is working. We're in an exceptional course. In the past 2,300 teachers were hired. In this course, 2,095 teachers are available. There's a strict compliance with the protocol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u159	You have to finish, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u160	There are 140 million extra euros, 1,900 lows covered in a record time, and we have twice as much child vaccination as the average of Spain. It's data that they believe, of course, the concern of this political party, this parliamentary group and also of the Council of Galicia for the education system. And it's rather the impression that in other cases they worry more about politicizing him and denigrating him. Nothing else, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u161	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To close the debate of this non-law proposal, by the Nationalist Block of Wales, you have the floor of Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the spokesman of the Socialist Group for accepting and approving this non-law proposal. Obviously, we both know that educational centers are micro-society; therefore, they cannot be alien to what happens from doors to doors. We better know that it's amplifying and multiplying everything that happens in society, whether visible or even invisible. So at all, there is no kind of thought or intention to convey that the centers are unsafe, at all, we fully agree. I am also sure that we agree that it will be safer how many more security and prevention measures are put in place. And that is what we have lost — you know it just as I do — in this course, because it gave in to that protection that in the past it was seen that it worked perfectly. What I am sure is that every day companions and companions from different areas, from different educational centers, of what they talk to me is the difficulties, uncertainties, and above all the incommunicado between Sergas and his work center. That's what a reality is. And it's absolutely undeniable. And, Mr. Rodeiro, I understand it must be very difficult to defend here in this gallery something in which either you don't believe or you don't really know yourself in an internal way. It must be very difficult, I won't give him the gain. Anyone would say that, for you, in view of your intervention, education is a burden, it's a sum of numbers and numbers that simply turns into a burden. Sometimes it gives a little of that feeling when we hear it. And besides talking about numbers, I'm going to talk about people, I'm going to talk about what's going on with people and what people need. You said it!: the virus is circulating equally, indeed, and that's why we're lowering the protections. Is that exactly the way to act, the way to prevent and plan properly by the Council? That's what we asked. It gives the impression, by his intervention, that he made here an adapted reading of a report that could also be "Teaching in Pandemic Times" — if I may paraphrase Garcia Márquez's title. But I think you forgot some chapters. Managing the pandemic in figures. Here we talked about figures, from 13,000 cases covered to 10 January to start the course, from nearly 1,000 teachers and teachers less in educational centers — i.e. the budgets of the year 2022—. Indeed, we have lost too much time to now dedicate the People's Party's Parliamentary Group to denying them. But they're there, they're there, and that's what there is. Another chapter is the management of the pandemic in improvisation mode or the inability to prevent it. When did you hold an information meeting to precisely transfer to trade union organisations — what less! — how would you take action in this course? January 10th. Nothing is done until the first day of the course. That's called orderly prevention and planning, according to the theory of the People's Party. On the recruitment of substitute professors, of course, there were a lot of problems. I have to remind you -- because you have forgotten it -- that the child and primary replacement lists, for example, were not updated until yesterday, and some specialties have come to virtually no staff to cover replacements simply by an inability to act properly from the Galician Union. He was unable to update the child and primary replacement lists until yesterday, when the opposition ended at the end of July. That's called planning and anticipation. Their anticipation is simply when they're interested in giving a headline against Madrid. That's all they care about. Every effort you make in the People's Party to look for a headline against Madrid is to reinforce the inability to act here in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's what we're continually losing with his fear of looking at and accusing anyone, including Madrid. And the third chapter you forgot, therefore, is the management of the Madrid pandemic. Apparently, the problem of good governance of education and education in Galicia is the state, it's Madrid: protocols are confusing, empty helmets, they're very difficult to implement in the centers... well, look, if the problem is Madrid, you know, we've already told them at the BNG: more sovereignty. He made our companion Olalla Rodil an' topic one', a lesson one, a masterful lesson of nationalism for humans who, whenever they want, can begin to apply. [[Applause]] The Greeks and the Greeks what they have just seen is — part of a sovereign bad education on the right side of the People's Party, which does not allow me to speak calmly — that this "no" that has already announced this non-law proposition of the BNG is simply to go against the teaching of the Greek, is to deny a higher educational quality, an educational excellence for the teaching of Greek. They will vote against equipping the centres with a larger number of teachers, they will vote against extending the ratios, because LOMLOE marks – not forgets Mr Rodeiro – maximum ratios. Nothing prevents you from lowering those ratios.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u164	His "no" is, ultimately, to have the ability and to defend his powers, to foresee and correct a situation of disappearance at the moment of the teacher and the families. They're forcing education directly into the tension of academic life, cohabitative life, and emotional life in our teaching centers. And that means clodicating your responsibility. I'm done, Mr. President. It is clear that in the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u165	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u166	...when they fill their mouths with effort to pronounce this Next Generation with aglophile accent, at all, they think that believing in the new generation of Greeks and Greeks starts by giving priority to educational quality always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u168	...and more in a health pandemic like the one we're living with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u169	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the current situation of the production chain, obtaining and marketing of beef
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u170	Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments to this non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u171	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. He said that the abandonment of rural areas and the disregard that since the different administrations are concerned with it, it might be the subject to be dealt with today. In the 1970s, a jet was paid to today's equivalent of 6 euros, 50 years later, at the beginning of 2020, it was five. And as the pandemic arrived, the price had to be lowered. Today it's not worth 4.70 euros. There's no such thing as the whim of the distribution, first of all, and then of the industry. Once again, they are the masters. Marketplace, Carrefour or Eroski mark prices and tell how far you can reach, both in cattle and in pigs, birds and rabbits. And the situation has become unrelenting. Of course, for those who have no heart, no problem. Do small and medium-sized family farms in extensive or semi-intensive? Then they leave quickly and don't give the can. Instead of each one that closes it, in just five or six ferrets, we set up an 800-head, 3,000-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty, and we don't need land to sustain it, because the inputs bring them into ships from Brazil, Argentina, the United States, because we're going to throw the jurors where we can, and, if we don't, as we have influence, we're going to set up a purin management industry, which produces gas and fertilizer, like, last generation. All this after creating the necessary stress eutrophicating water, saturated with nitrates and phosphates land of labor — and those that are not labor, as well. Because here those who design and plan industrial gain, macro-granches, are industries and distribution, and with absolute freedom and joy. On the contrary, the vast gain, that, ours, in a natural way, that which occupies territory and which manages it, that which sets the population, that which fights the fire by consuming biomass, that which produces meat of first taste and quality, that which does not enclose the animals in filles with the preventive antibiotics necessary not to infer, that which, without the law of animal welfare, already dealt with them with attention and due respect, that which is at the level of Index or Citroën in the volume of jobs, yes, that, that, does not receive attention, does not receive the attention that they receive from these factories. They are about 20,000 farms in scope, most of them with cattle from the country in their different races — rubies, thresholds, caldellas, cachens — depending on the tastes and quality of the pastures — some more demanding and others more suffering. Most of this beef, with a consolidated quality, is marketed under the label of the IXP Ternera Gallega, which has nearly 8,000 farms that primarily depend on this activity. This is a sustainable production of recognized quality in the Greek markets — 50% of this market — state — 45% — and international — 5% of the market. There are 20,000 farms distributed throughout the territory, with particular attention to depressed and mountain areas. They're about 50,000 direct jobs. They're not a macro-grange of workers, they're families with independent life plans, scattered and attached to the territory. But we don't drift away. While production costs are rising unabatedly — in a provisional calculation we could walk on a fork of 50 cents/what up to 1 euro/kilo in excess of costs — the price per kilo, on the other hand, dropped the producer afraidly — the last reduction was 40 cents/kilo. Ladies and gentlemen, by the end of 2019, before the pandemic, 5 euros per kilo per channel no longer covered production costs, and they dropped to 4.40 and 4.50. And they blamed Horeca and froze meat. And this year of 2021 went all over the market. And more hoboera! But the price to the producer didn't move. The final price is yes, which costs the distribution, yes; what we pay consumers, yes, that's risen. And "I'm not guilty," and "I don't have skills," and "I'm very tight," and that "the free market can't intervene"... all those responsible look to the other side and the messed up sector about to run out of air to breathe. And every god stands up as a defender of the countryside and organizes protests that offend, like Madrid's one of the most important, on Sunday 23rd. And they participate from the Andalusian lord mounted in a Jerezan jaca that charges the CAP for papa's will to breeders of lea bales from the other side of the sea. It's all worth an election period, and supportive political macro-operations. And in Galicia too, praise and praise are free, but the situation no longer gives them any more. An activity that is a first line of firefighting, a true biomass policy in preventing the care of the mountain and the people, which also results in a high quality product and which maintains a transitible rural area in those depressed and mountain areas, does not deserve the marginalization that has been subjected to for some time. Remember that in the last few years, almost thirteen years, neither did the Government strike in favour of the field with structural measures of silence and background. The coronovirus was used by the industries and distribution to impose a generalized drop in prices on the producer who then converted the most restrictive period of the pandemic to the chronicle. It is time for the Rural Council to undertake, as a competent body and administration, to ensure compliance with the obligation of the price agreed between producers and the first buyer, which at least has to cover production costs. For this purpose, a technical evaluation commission should be set up to update these values for each production orientation in the Italian field. It is necessary and urgent for the Administration to review all prices and assume the task of objectively evaluating production costs by establishing benchmarks, arbitrating spaces for dialogue and negotiation between the stamps of the agri-food chain and thus ensuring compliance with the law. Because the first obligation of a government must be to watch for its productive sectors, for its good health, for its productive and economical, and for its sustainability. If there are no real solutions to these problems in the short and long term, many of these farms will be shut down. We must therefore fight in all areas for improvements to ensure continuity in the future primary productive tissue. It is mandatory for both the Galician Union and the Government of the State; the United States, because it has sufficient powers to perform this work of arbitration of improvement of the conditions and expansion of the extended meat production sectors; and the Government of the State, because the Law of the Food Chain is lame and serves only to satisfy illusions, to allay the pressures of the fleshly lobbyists with their desertification projects, and to equip it with an instrument that facilitates its fulfilment without deception and disloyalty. That's the first demand from rural people in general in our country. And, as a measure of shock, to establish a direct aid programme to the primary producer sector of beef and veal in Galicia, to activate these aid by authorizing an additional payment by slaughtered calf next to a nursing cow, which allows to balance prices, either by making a direct payment by nursing cow or farm, so as to ensure that you are paying directly to those who raise calves, thus ensuring the continuity of farms, many of them — I repeat — located in disadvantaged and high mountain areas; and, of course, without leaving the holdings of less than ten cows, as they have already done. It is urgent to develop a strategic plan for the marketing of products of proximity and quality through electronic platforms and lowers the online mode or direct sale, with the necessary training and taking into account the age of many of these livestock and livestock. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the beef sector, although by extension we are talking about agricultural products in general, more specifically about the beef sector. There are urgent improvements to accompany the necessary expansion of this sector, a program of strategies in technological innovation on our farms. Valla for example: research on new products produced, packaging with new conservation techniques, search for new external markets, promotion of delivery programming, in order to destabilize production and adapt to real demand. It is necessary to ensure conditions of technical and economic viability in incorporating new boys and girls into gainful activity. There are, ladies and gentlemen, an outstanding and crucial issue that needs political courage — which, as you can see, you don't have. This sector of meat of all kinds (ves, pigs, rabbits, turkeys...), —extensive talk; I repeat: extensive, because the intensive is cod and tied— these producers have long claimed the creation of a hygienic-sanitary regulation that allows the farms to carry out the direct sale they demand. And they've also been asking for the creation of a network of comarcal slaughterhouses for some time now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u174	...as the only way to equip the farms with value added. For the sector, ladies and gentlemen, it's a matter of life and death, or death; you'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u176	Thank you, President. We continue with the debate on the situation of the meat sector in Galicia, a problem that we have been presenting since our group for months, the last time in the first plenary session of December, in which we ask the People's Party to take urgent measures for a sector that has been one of the most hit by the coronary crisis, resulting from the closure of the marketing and restoration channels, but that after this crisis it has not been able to receive a reasonable price again for the meat it produces. But for a lot of emergency messages that have been launching this sector for months now, it seems like it doesn't matter to the German Government or the People's Party either. I am sure that, with this serious action, with the powers of the Government of Greece, the People's Party will come here only to speak of Minister Garzón's statements concerning macro-grandes. And making it clear that since the Socialist Group we consider it wrong to give a message that can question the quality of meat in Spain, which is subject to health checks by the world's most demanding, however, People's Party gentlemen, we have much to discuss at the heart of the problems of this type of facilities, which could cause great damage to our sector in Galicia if they were allowed. Because I suppose that the installation of a farm of more than twenty-five thousand heads in Soria, which could produce as nearly four hundred half farms in Galicia, with all the problems of animal welfare and environmental management, is not the model that the People's Party wants in Galicia. Or is it, gentlemen of the People's Party? It's been a while since the State Government has been legislating to ban this kind of unsustainable production. In Galicia, there are no meat cow macro-grains, gentlemen of the People's Party, and we have to point out that here, precisely, the meat sector is based on small extensive farms, which, by the way, need a dimensioning plan to be able to have sufficient profitability for the work they do. But let's talk about saving the sector at this hard time, because we know how, once again, the People's Party, through a proposed amendment, trusts it all again with the magical effect that the future development of a strategy of the meat sector, which no one knows when it will come out and how many farms will come alive to implement the measures of that strategy. A whole classic of Mr. Feijó's government when he doesn't want to do anything: plans, studies, strategies, and no concrete measure but to focus on the evil, reincarnated in the figure of Pedro Sánchez and his Government of Communists. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the meat sector and the beef sector have been on for three decades at frozen prices and without sufficient public aid. This is not what the Socialist Party says, which is what denounces the main agricultural organization in Galicia. But the curious thing is, in the last year, in the Spanish state as a whole, the prices that the owners felt for the meat increased by 29%, while in Galicia they did by 7.5%, a difference of more than 20 points, and I suppose this will not be the fault of the Minister of Consumption, Mr. Tellado; something will have to see what we do or stop doing here in Galicia. I didn't know, I should be a little careful. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The reality, while we expect expectations of this magnificent strategy for the meat sector, is that it is at high risk the economic viability of farms that produce a high quality meat, under strict parameters of animal welfare, but also play an indispensable role from the point of view of land management, since rural areas account for more than 80% of the territory of Greece; also against the struggle of the abandonment of rural areas, unnecessarily environmental work and also important work in the fight against forest fires. In Galicia there are about 20,000 meat farms, of which 8,000 are registered in Ternera Galicia, and six thousand of them may be considered professional. 32% of these are found in mountain areas and about 2 000 are found in the most impoverished and aging areas of Galicia, for which this activity represents an economic engine and an essential population fixation factor. The yellow beefgrowers are selling their product today at least what it costs them to produce. The average cost of producing a jet today exceeds 150 euros at the beginning of last year, and the animals are selling for the same price as 20 years ago. To produce a kilogram of meat costs around €5.50 kilograms per channel, as I always tell you, while the liquidations continue today without exceeding 4.80. The sector needs administrations to put in place without delay mechanisms to prevent this situation. The Council of Galicia and the Government of the State — listen carefully to me: the Government of the State — must ensure and put in place instruments to implement the fulfilment of a new Food Chain Law in all food sectors, a law that requires an important improvement in the legislative body for producers. We can't keep observing how the gainmakers have to spend their savings or turn to bank loans, which in many cases can't bear. It requires a price observatory to be set up to stabilize the markets and the government and the state must ensure compliance with the contracts and the prices approved at the negotiating tables. The meat sector needs to have the Junta de Galicia reactive, as I said on other occasions, exceptionally, a line of help similar to the one that was used for the vault, a line that used European funds but insufficiently. Because they didn't use all the budget allowed by Europe, because they could use up to 24 million PDRs in Galicia and the People's Party Government only used about 7 million euros, an amount that Galicia's own board should complement now, since the sector itself valued a loss of 18 million euros from the beginning of the pandemic until last summer, some data that should be more than enough for the Greek Government to react, since own funds have not yet put a hard one, and we should not allow the collapse of many farms by the passiveness of the Government of Greece to not put on the table all the resources needed to save a sector that is strategic for Galicia. We have introduced an addition amendment for the Galician Union to put in place a strategic plan for the viability of these farms for this year 2022, because, as it is known, in the first months of the year it always lowers the price of beef, and we believe that it is necessary to centralize the direct aid of the RDP, both for mountain and agri-food areas, on beef farms based on nutritional cows, and the Greek Government should make it possible to advance this aid so that beef producers can have access to these incomes in the first quarter of 2022, reducing the effects of this fall in prices of what it was talking about. In the medium term, we repeat that the strategy of the Galician Union, since they want to know, should be based on the bet on an extensive range of quality, by encouraging public research to increase the quality of our product and also of food, by modernising the packaging and dumping channels of consumer products, by using the means of negotiation to ensure the presence of our meat in the food chains of our territory and by betting on the expansion of the foreign market with high quality products, under those that guarantee the certification of all possible materials, such as health, the environment, etc. In this line of revaluation of this product we have to do everything we need to make the tender supreme galley the marketing flag of our meat. And that's why we introduced another amendment to encourage the conversion of this meat into a true delicatesen product, to have the economic recognition on the part of the consumer who deserves its quality. We cannot continue to allow the price of this supreme meat to have the same price as the generic meat, for which the Greek Government should make a plan of revaluing this supreme tender, accompanied by a plan of dynamizing the tender Galician beyond Galicia. They must put in place without delay the digital range, which the People's Party has accepted in our proposals of the Commission for reactivating with the hidden fund, and which continues to wait for its implementation; a measure that seeks to equip new ways of selling not only to be in the hands of those intermediaries, who remain with a very high percentage of a product that they only work. I'm no longer going to talk about the erratic politics of the Environmental Council with regard to wild fauna in a wolf plan that hasn't come to an end, which doesn't control its population, and which has our strays without giving them a preventive and economic response so that they can recover the money they lose for the disappearance of their cattle. Don't laugh, Mr. Tellado, it's been like this for so many years, before I changed the condition of the wolf, and you laugh as long as the livestock lose a lot of their money for the damage this animal has caused. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they can't stand behind so many families in Galicia. We've been presenting initiatives for months since the opposition to act in support of this sector, and you continue with your laughter and your deafness and only have the supposed magical effect, as always, of the development of a strategic plan for meat. But the sector can't wait another minute. They have in their hand the choice to take action against the emergency message that is spreading the sector or tracking cross arms, seeing as it sinks an essential sector for Galicia, just for Galicia at greater risk of aging and abandonment. It's not a question of laughter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's a very serious matter, and, as the spokesman for the BNG said, the meat sector has a weight in employment as important or more important even as companies as important as can be Citroën, Alcoa or similar. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u178	Good afternoon, ladies. And since it's the first full of 2022, the best wishes for this year. May we be healthy and correct. And I think I've told you up to 100, because if we don't talk about eating things and if we don't talk about one of the sectors I'm going to do in addition to the sectors I support and the ones I believe in, the truth is that this was a very fun debate. But seriously, this is no fun. Mr. Dry, you know I always speak to you with proper respect and affection, probably more than I deserve. But believe me that... this speech seems to have made him Formoso to pose an uncertain future for you. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, I'm going to give you two reflections and then focus on the really important thing. Look, you say you failed the Environmental Council without a plan for the management of the wolf, when the central government just included it as a protected species, recognizing that there was an overcrowding. You say the People's Party makes plans to make it do nothing, but in its amendment the first request is a strategic plan for the viability of farms. See, Mr. Seco, I recognize that it may not be very focused, but what joke is this? what joke is this? Now there are twenty thousand pending holdings of measures adopted by its central government, which, however, does not cease in this unjustified defence of the actions of the Government which undoubtedly is one of the main causes for which our holdings are currently drowning. [[Applause]] The price of light, the charesty of raw materials, the price of diesel, all this depends directly on the central government. You don't come out of your chest and criticize the Government of the Council of Galicia in decisions that everyone knows — because you yourself reminded him when he ruled another political party in Madrid — that responsibility lies with the central government. So let us be serious, because at the moment the primary sector certainly needs a serious debate, a rigorous debate and less cheap politics. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Rivas, certainly not your exhibition, but reading your initiative I recognize that I liked and that I agree on many of the points you ask. And I also tell you that at the right time, at the right time, I am thinking about them in the process of developing the strategy of the meat sector, a document in which we believe, because there has to be planning, undoubtedly, and there must be decisions with responsibility. By the way, the strategy in which more than 72 agents, trade union entities, livestock cooperatives, recognized prestigious universities — which are already attending the third meeting — will be fourth this week. On this line I invite you to do the approaches and to include them in that strategy, which is the text of our amendment. It calls me the attention that in your intervention you have absolutely nothing to ask for correction, correction or, if you want to be milder — that I already know that you with the Government of Madrid are not missing, so much so that even though you never comply with what they say or even vote against budgets, you make them a little critical abstention, but I think it is incredible that, with which you are falling, you, who knows in addition to the indignation that the sector has against the consumer minister, that I am not worthy of being the Minister of Podemos because he is the Minister of Sanchez and, if I am clear, also Minister of the Nationalist Block of Wales, who has appointed the President, who does not cease it... who has named him and who does not ceases him. [[Applause]] Because we're wrong, we can all be wrong, but we can get into the wrong and harm the sector! Because — you will agree with me — a minister — Mrs. Olalla —...a minister who says: less meat, more life, do you think he's working for the meat sector? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Really, put your hand in your heart. Do you think you're helping the meat sector? To say, as I said five minutes ago, that at the demonstration on Saturday came the Andalusian lords who charged for the CAP, I will bring that message to the neighbors of the Navy looking out from the province of Lugo, humble people and workers who deserve all respect when they publicly manifest themselves. Because for you, it's only worth the demonstrations that carry the BNG sign. [[Applause]] That's their democracy, always creating citizens of the first and second. [[Applause]] If you're going to head Mrs. Pontón and wear a sign from the BNG, those are German citizens who defend their rights; now, if the BNG isn't there, they're Andalusian gentlemen. I really think I should apologize for the second intervention. They are wrong by glaring the situation in the meat sector, they are wrong by glaring the difficult situation in the primary sector. I have already told you — that, by the way, we have reached agreement — in the debate on the situation in the milk sector. The genders and the Greek and Spanish farmers are tired of legislating behind their backs, namely the protection of the wolf, those exaggerated ecologicalist sins that are limiting, ruining many of their farms, and — most importantly — without having them absolutely against. And they want to comply with the laws that are passed, and they don't want alms, they don't want alms, they don't want to be paid the cost of production. They have to have a profit margin. Why do you ask for 1 kilo of meat to pay the farmer what it costs to produce it? Who's going to work later? Free? The Food Chain Act, which is undoubtedly the instrument that can protect the negotiating position of our producers in the primary sector, has to collect that production costs and their profit margin are paid to the producer. And we must claim it, and we must claim that he is paid for it and not given alms. Look, you know there were direct help in 2020. This group also asks the advisor to study the best formula to help the sector, and of course, without excluding direct help. But you know as I do that is not the solution. We have to have a competitive, sustainable sector that does not live by the direct aid of Government A or B, depending on the economic moment. It has to be our fight. And if we don't ask for it like that, neither are we valuing the sector. And you, even though you're constantly resorting to those metaphors of the illiterate glove that carry you through the rope, that you can't decide, you know how I do not know that this is true, and you know that we have well-trained true professionals in the primary sector and that they want to defend their sector. [[Applause]] What's the solution? First, to strengthen the negotiating position, and we hope that the strategy of the meat sector, as it is being achieved in the dairy sector, will have mechanisms so that this Food Chain Law can be enforced. And secondly, of course, recognize the fundamental role of the primary sector in our economy. Those are the keys, and about that build, where you have a lot to contribute. And -- I insist -- in the literality of your initiative, we're going to agree on a lot of points, and I think you should be involved in the strategy, and here I'm sending you the invitation. It is no longer worth recalling the aid that was given in 2020, those extraordinary aids that exceeded the EUR 7 million. The progress of the CAP has been transmitted as much as possible, which is 160 million. Another type of aid, which rose from 3,300,000 to the gainful health defence groups, aid for the replacement of livestock, aid for supplementary compensation for loss of profits, aid for the promotion of indigenous races, aid for compensation for slaughter, the important one comes to favour and encourage the recruitment of agricultural insurance — reaching over 7 million euros in 2022 in these budgets — the Pastoral Plan. We have to fight to lower production costs. The more territorial base, undoubtedly the more competitive it can be, is the situation in which exploitation is found. That no silence measures were taken? Mr Rivas, the Agricultural Recovery Act, I believe it is a regulation of silence, structural and absolutely, well, that will support the primary sector. You, who voted against for the reasons that have already been discussed here, well know that on repeated occasions you have supported and come to a lot of agreements in the articles because you were defending that instrument. It's tagging "Galicia quality". And here, to finish -- because it is because, as they say commonly, if I don't say so, burst, they ask that campaigns be supported for the external promotion of our flesh; that is to say, that with the money of the Greeks you put in value a product that the Central Government... well, because I no longer entered the macrogrances, because in Galicia there are no macrogrances; then I am not going to discuss whether in Soria — as the other said — or outside of Pedraphita... you will understand that right now it's not our competition. But, as the president of Asaja said this Sunday in statements to the media: "we are tired of free attacks," they stop criminalizing the sector, bet on the future of the Spanish field. And I'm going to play a few words of a "quality tag" video from that campaign that the board is doing. A livestockman, specifically, of Cervantes who explained how he raised his cows and his jackals who were inside Ternera Gaga...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u180	..."Mother up to seven months; then they eat potatoes, think and dry grass; they have a healthy quality of life, raised with a lot of noodles and naturally." And, of course, my thanks to the Fitur cooks... of course, you didn't see it because you decided to go exactly closer to Andalusia than to Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] But they did an important tasting there with a great professionalism, which, by the way, also completes the value of our products. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u182	Stop doing demagogy and let's keep working together. I'm sure we'll make it right. But besides, you know what the sector and our livestock are asking for. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u184	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Candia, I'm constipating everything to you in a debate less than caricatures than they are. I'm not talking about the illiterate peasant, never! It's more, sometimes I love the illiteracy of many peasants more than certain rehabs of you. [[Applause]] Really, with your hand in your heart or your heart in your hand, as you wish. [[Applause]] Look, you haven't talked about your amendment and I'm going to talk about your amendment, because the president asks me and, besides, because I like it. The amendment of the PP is a dissuasive maneuver to avoid being positioned on the agreement we have proposed since the BNG regarding the problem of beef. That's why I didn't name the macrograndes, eh! We have the party in peace and we leave things as they are. They know that in order to debate and dialogue on this subject we always have, we are always willing, even knowing that they will distort and that they will collect what they want from our proposals. When they want, we talk; when, where, and how they want. But you are specialists in designing plans, which are not going anywhere, to find solutions that put the sectors where they should be. By the way, do you know anything about the Strategic Plan of the Limia, which has to do with the meat of birds and pigs and more the serious and problematic threat it drags? Do you know what's going on about the Limit and since 2019, which have the conclusions made by all the links of the different sectors of the primary sector that you've been through at the Limit Table? Is there anything like that? Does he know anything about us? Do you know anything about this vulnerable area threat that hangs on that part of Ourense province, abused by you all your life? Does he know anything about that? Are you going to do something or are you going to look somewhere else while the born of Europe and the central government comes? Are they going to do something for our farmers, farmers, and our livestock? Are you going to do something? No, no, no, no. As far as you can see, no. [[Applause]] Look, you're tired of legislating back to the rural sector. And when I was Minister Tejerina, the one that represented Fertiberia within the PP government, what? Fertibera show. It's gone, of course, but you were legislated then. And do you remember that the law of the food chain is 2013? Remember it's from 2013? And that you weren't who during the years they ruled to make the reforms that the sectors were asking for, that all sectors of agriculture and the rural world were asking them to do? They never did. They haven't put in any instrument that favors that point that they have a right and that if at least they pay the costs of production. You say we're the only one... Mr. Tellado I think he's another negotiated, but here he is. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He's a specialist in everything. Thank you very much, really. Then, outside, I admit to you the advice that comes from him. What did you do with the Food Chain Law? Nothing, nothing, nothing. Not even now in the last reform have been able to put any amendment that was on that path that now begs for those manipulated, orchestrated demonstrations. Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I remember when the buses were full in the East Square. [[Murmurs.]] They were the same drivers. To finish... if they let me... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u185	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u186	...Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u187	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u188	Tell you, Mr. Seco, about your amendments, that it is true that point 1 and point 2 are somehow included in ours; therefore, we will not admit them. Point 3 seems to be timely and complementary; we would accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and the Greeks live in a kind, kind, humanized territory; fertile, as long as it does not grow in its environmental sensitivity; rich, as long as its demands and conditions are met; we, meanwhile, are not sold to the first one that brings capital and easy word. On that line goes this LNP and on that line we will always have to dialogue for the benefit of the sectors, to maintain their excellence and to maintain the lives of their inhabitants. In other lines not, as in the manipulation of LESSPRE, of the wolf and all that you've never done. The management plan has never done so, and the wolf is not the fault of the gang. The evil of this country's livestock is yours. It's you who don't pay. [[Murmurs.]] It's you, who in your help... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u189	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u190	I can scream more, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u191	Yeah, so yell more. Finish it, come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u192	I can scream, I have a voice, I still have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u193	Well, come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u194	Really, it's you, who don't pay no profit, who don't count the victims of the wolf... No counting allowed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The remains have to appear, even if the horse manure or the cow manure are extended for fifteen days without being visited. No, they don't know what they want. They know what they want, they know very well: fill their pockets, their pockets and others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the request by the Committee of the Regions to the Government of Spain to comply with the will expressed by both the Parliament of Galicia and the Congress of Deputies and extend the programme of support to Xacobeo by extending the tax reliefs until 31 December 2023
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u196	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Verea Fraiz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u197	Thank you, President. We are bringing back to the Galician Parliament a question that in a context of institutional cooperation and normal inter-administrative relations at best didn't have to be discussed here today. But the question is that we bring it up because of the insistence of the Socialist Party and the Central Government to understand the Holy Year, to understand the Holy Year as a second, third or fourth-class event, when we all know -- or at least it's hard to understand the Central Government -- that we're talking about the main or most important cultural event, the State's tourist event when not even the whole European Union. And, therefore, when we try to interpret this lack of support from the central government, we find no kind of justification or rational explanation and therefore we have to go to the more partisan or short-term interpretations, which ultimately follow that wrong logic, but simple or simple logic, that as the epicenter of the Xacobeo is in Galicia and Galicia governs the People's Party, because we are not going to support the Xacobeo too much, it is not going to be understood that we are reinforcing behind the People's Party of Galicia. As I say, it's a wrong logic and a logic that ultimately affects or harms all the Greeks. We don't understand and we still don't understand why in the budgets of 2021 and now in the budgets of 2022 there is not a single direct departure, a specific match, for the Xacobeo. This is an anomaly — we will all agree. It's an anomaly that also makes more sense if we see that other regions, cities or other cultural events are having direct funding through general budgets. We speak on numerous occasions of the concrete case of this cultural week in Barcelona. As I say, there is no rational explanation for this anomaly. Something that can no longer be corrected, because the budgets of 2021 and those of 2022 are closed, but, in any case, it is graphic and serves to portray perfectly those who have made the decision, also portray those who defend that decision not to directly support the Jacobean and, of course, also to portray those who should be quiet when they go out there to defend their city, their deputies or, in any case, the interests of all the Greeks. Issues in a way too, because politics also has a lot of form and certain actions also reveal a lot of intentions. This Parliament unanimously decided to ask the Central Government to present the National Plan in Galicia and, within a few days, to make the presentation in Oviedo. He said before the decision was, at least, abnormal; this is practically ridiculous: to bring the presentation of the National Plan to Oviedo. National plan which is also endowed with a hundred and twenty million euros for all autonomous communities, for the whole state; a hundred and twenty million euros when the Galician Union is devoting only to Xacobeo in Galicia one hundred and seventy million euros. And, by the way, of the one hundred and twenty million euros budgeted in that National Plan, to this day, nothing has yet arrived in Galicia. In security matters too, there are 50 black spots that cross the state roads and Santiago's roads, which are catalogued and taxed, and which are perfectly identified by the Autonomic Administration, presented on numerous occasions in the Government Delegation to try to fix themselves, and today no one knows at all. We can counter them with those thirty million euros that the Galician Union has already invested in signaling, conditioning and security of Santiago's different roads. Security is also when we call for the reinforcement of the state's security forces and bodies for this Jacobean biennium, staff reinforcement which has not occurred either. So we're faced with multiple incomprehensible decisions and what we bring here today is one more, such as the non-enlargement of the tax benefits of Jacob. No one escapes from the fact that in an event of these dimensions, the figure of the mescanate is fundamental. The participation of the Greek economic fabric serves to ensure that the event, in this case the Jacobean, is more plural, more collective, can be enriched, and ultimately, the participation — as I say — of the Greek entrepreneurship makes the project a more country project and much more solid. Besides, this is happening. Today, the participation of the Greek companies in Xacobeo through this figure of tax incentives amounts to EUR 20 million; EUR 20 million that are available to all the Greeks and all the Greeks in action related to the Xacobeo. The timing of these investments will reveal that we are facing a question of common sense. In 2008, the Government of the People's Party, at that time in the Central Government, in the approval of the general budgets of 2018, in additional provision 87, declares Xacobeo as an event of exceptional public interest; therefore, it opens the doors to these figures of mechanization and tax incentives, and sets a deadline that will be between 2018 and 2021. Two years later, in May 2020, this deadline was extended to 2022. So these tax incentives, when Xacobeo had a single year, were between 2018 and 2022. Months later and at the time of the opening of the Holy Door, you decide to extend the Xacobeo one more year. So the common sense, the administrative normality, what it says is that if Xacobeo was extended a year longer they would automatically have to be expanded or these tax benefits should be extended. That's what we bring here today. If Xacobeo is extended by another year, the logic is that the time limit for enjoying or enjoying these tax incentives will automatically be extended by another year. This is not what happened. A few weeks ago or a few days ago in the Senate he voted against specifically this expansion of tax benefits, which, as I say, also count on the support of the Greek economic fabric and would serve to make a better Xacobeo, a much more collective Xacobeo among all. And we're also in time to do it. It is true that the deadlines for general budgets have been closed, but this extension of fiscal deadlines can be perfectly incorporated into any legislative text currently being developed in the Congress of Deputies. So this parliamentary group will obviously call for unanimity to launch an example of common sense, an example of constructive policy and, above all, with an objective which I think we all share, which is to correct this anomalous situation, this incomprehensible situation and which, ultimately, is a prejudice to all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I mean, I hope in your speeches I can achieve that unanimity and send that message to correct this incomprehensible situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that today the People's Party is again bringing an initiative that shows that the Government of Feijóo is much more concerned about confronting the Government of President Sánchez, much more concerned about seeking guilty to justify its ineffective management, than about governing our Autonomous Community, which for this reason has voted on the majority of the men and women of this community, something that you remind us very often; they were voted precisely for the management of the German Government. It is interesting that in this parliament the initiatives presented by the Group of the People's Party are virtually entirely to urge the Government of the State, attempting to make this parliament an extension of the Congress of Members and presenting again and again initiatives that have already been approved in this same parliament or auto-bomb questions for the Councillors and Councillors of the Government Group. I suppose this will be for you to count them as parliamentary work, because otherwise, the truth is, you don't have too much justification. It is also interesting that in the resolution of the GNP that you present here today, they say: "to request the Government of the State to comply with the will expressed in both the Galician Parliament and the Congress of Deputies." And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: how many initiatives have been approved in this parliament urging the German Government or, therefore, urging the Galician Union to heed the will expressed in this parliament as well? Initiatives left alone in this, in initiatives adopted on the paper, because they never took effect. That's what they do, they practice and what you've got us used to. [[Applause]] It seems to you that this failure that occurs at the Galician Council for the Greek Government also occurs in the Government of Pedro Sánchez, taking into account that popular saying that he says "thinks the thief who is of his own condition." But the Government of the State, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, fulfills, and I will show it with data — as always — further. You, in that rush to confront the Government of Pedro Sánchez, once again anxious to be the most advanced student in the class and to follow up on Ayusism, who became that girl from whom President Feijóo fled and did not invite the actions of the People's Party in Galicia to be the queen of the flow and the special guest, to which all the people of the People's Party want to appear and applaud his regressive policies and the absolute lack of responsibility he applies in the Madrid Community. In that pursuit of confrontation and following up on that aidism — as I told you before — you forget that there are issues that are of competence to the Galician Union and that, from the point of view of the Greek socialists, they are very important and that I would like you to answer us in your second turn. In Parliament a Plan Director and Strategic Plan of the Santiago Way was adopted in Galicia 2015-2021. I'd like to know what the degree of execution of it is, if you've heeded all the priority actions, if you've affected all the action plans and actions you've wanted to push, if you've fulfilled that vision you want for the year 2021, which you've drawn into that document, and if you're a reality, or you've just been left with a paper intention as well. I would also like to know something about what you've done before and which I would like you to develop: what were the own resources that you've approached and executed the Government of Greece for the development of the Xacobeo 2021-2022? What was the event program and actions performed in 2021? What is the program of events and actions to take place in 2022? What was the execution of budget resources in 2021 for Xacobeo? I suppose you'll answer these questions to me later. You were somewhat against the Government of Mariano Rajoy in front of the Government presided over by President Sánchez. For I will tell you how many resources have been brought to you by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in the state and by the Government of Pedro Sanchez for the development of the various Jacobs. Well, look, when Mariano Rajoy was in the State Government, the arrivals to Galicia were 1.5 million euros for the Way of Santiago and 17 million euros to restore Santiago's cathedral, that is, 18.5 million euros. And now I'm going to bring you back to President Pedro Sanchez's Government. See, on the one hand, EUR 71.6 million of the Transfer Recovery Plan for twenty tourism initiatives and restoration of BIC; EUR 16.6 million for the execution of seven plans of tourist sustainability in destination linked to the paths of Santiago; EUR 25.7 million for the value of historical goods of tourist use in seventeen municipalities through which the various roads pass and for the municipality of Santiago, the city heritage of humanity, and EUR 25 million for investments of the national tourism plan Xacobeo 2021-2022; that is, EUR 140 million. 140 million euros from the Government of Pedro Sánchez against the 18.5 million euros from the Government of Rajoy. I mean, Pedro Sánchez multiplied by almost eight the state's arrivals for the Year Xacobeo 2021-2022. And the Government of Feijóo was the same before and now, what happens is that before he was silent — you spoke before he was silent — he shut up when it was 18.5, and now he counterposes because what it is to be continually against the Government of Pedro Sánchez. And you said that the Government of Pedro Sánchez regarded it as a second, third or fourth event. So, can you tell me you considered Mariano Rajoy's government 18.5 million against 140? Tell me, please, tell me! We have to be realistic! [[Applause]] It is also interesting that within these €22.7 million from this start to finance twelve projects on cultural interests, which directly benefit the 17 Greek municipalities for the various routes of Santiago, the Galician Union prioritizes 14 million to rehabilitate the space of the Monterrey fortress; that is, 62% of all these incomes, for a council with a Government of the People's Party. And I'm not going to go on with the rest of the performances, for which only 8.7 million euros are left, because I'm going to run out of time. As you see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Government of the State of Pedro Sánchez meets. I'm going to leave you a report of accountability from the Government of Spain with Galicia which was published in 2021, see if you can have an equal from the Government of Mariano Rajoy and we can do here a monograph to discuss it, and so we can see that the Government of Pedro Sánchez meets. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]] You want to confront any measure, project or initiative presented by the Government of Pedro Sánchez and seek excusable culprits to justify the ineffectiveness of the management of the Greek Government. They tried not to get these funds to Spain and so they didn't get to Galicia. A plan bringing EUR 681 million to Galicia and including much of this funding for the Year Xacobeo 2021-2022. And without that, Mr. Casado goes to Europe to speak ill of his country so that they still try not to get those funds to Spain and so they don't get to Galicia. That's where you should be talking about getting these funds to Galicia and helping us in our economic recovery, which we miss so much after having suffered from the pandemic of the coward. Finally, we have to listen as President Feijóo and the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor speak of the division to the political colour of the corresponding government. I have to go back to that popular saying that "thinks the thief that everyone is of his own condition." If you want, I would remind you of the caciquil distribution that makes the Government of Galician Union or the Parliamentary Member of Ourense, for example, that these are the institutions in which you govern, in which they call grants for municipalities in non-competitive competition — something that Mr. President of Galician Union these days say a lot — and that they exhaust the credits in nine minutes and in addition, oh, chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u201	...99% of the municipalities are ruled by the People's Party. And I don't want to talk about those partnership agreements that are done by the finger and where eight out of ten are also from the People's Party governments. And, finally, I'm going to read some statements that made the People's Party's spokesman — they're rather curious — that say, "Sometimes criteria that don't admit to the discussion are applied and other times that apply criteria that they have to think; it's not confrontation, but trying to get everyone to have the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u203	There is no other request from the Galician Union." I'm done, Mr. President. So look, Mr Puy and Members of the People's Party, let the story be applied. There's nothing else to be asked from the Greek councils to the Galician Union: that all municipalities have the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u205	And look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u206	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u207	Mr. President. This initiative of the People's Party calls on the Government of the State to comply with the agreement already agreed in Commission 6a on Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, with the positive vote of the PP and the BNG and the abstention of the PSdeG, which basically consisted of requesting from the State the extension of the support programme to Xacobeo until 31 December 2023, or, in the same way, to extend until the end of the year the tax reliefs provided for in Law 49/2002, the tax regime of non-profit entities and the tax incentives to the male. On its day, the BNG Parliamentary Group supported the popular initiative by considering it logical and appropriate, because it was necessary and because — that is the case — the sector asked for it. Today, the instability and volatility of tourist flows continue to affect the economic recovery of a tourism sector, which needs as many help as possible to alleviate a situation that is still very difficult today. The sixth wave was a severe blow to the sector in general, but especially to those living in Xacobeo; a Xacobeo who kept the type as to the influx of visitors thanks to the internal market, but which continues to count on the most important tenicap of international tourism; international tourism that plays a very important role in Xacobeo and which, at the moment, has not returned to levels prior to the pandemic. Looks like we'll still have to wait a while for international tourist flows to normalize. So, as I have said, it is essential to support any initiative that supports the sector, and we have done so — as it is today — with this initiative by the PP, in particular in March last year, and we will do it again today. Now, there are certain issues raised in the statement of reasons that we do not share and others that it would be appropriate to clarify. In the explanatory statement it is said that Xacobeo 21-22 must be a powerful engine of socio-economic recovery for Galicia. We agree with that statement of intentions, but since BNG we have made it clear that it must not be the only one. The pandemic has shown that it's not appropriate to put all eggs in the same basket. From the German Government he's been betting himself for a long time for Jacob as the whole of tourism and cultural policies, obvious that Galicia has cultural and tourist potentials that go far beyond Xacobeo. Xacobeo is a good tourist brand, but we cannot share the partisan use of this event since Galician Union. The Xacobeo consists of a black hole for which large amounts of budgeting are allocated year after year, which causes us not to bet enough on many other potentials that we count in our country. From the BNG we understand that the best letter of presentation of our country, which should focus on the promotional and tourist policies of the Galician Union, is our environmental, landscape and fauna richness, our cultural and ethnographic richness; and the Union should also focus on the promotion and conservation of the sea and our rivers, on the conservation and conditioning of ports and the promotion of marine villages, also on the immense thermal offer spread throughout the territory, also focusing on promoting what enriches, differentiates and makes us attractive, from the point of view also touristic, such as cultural heritage, scattered throughout the country and, of course, our language. And, of course, keep the bet on Santiago's Way, as a tourist claim. But what is not acceptable is that all or almost all of the action of the Union in tourism and culture focuses on Xacobeo, because this means leaving in the shade all that wealth and potential to which I have just mentioned. The message of the German Government and the PP in recent times, when they speak of the Xacobeo, focuses on the theoretical plane — I insist — in the theoretical plane, in terms of sustainability, cohesion, quality and diversity, and, according to the present initiative, to take advantage of the resources of each place to bring wealth to the whole territory. And I say on the theoretical plane because, in fact, by the announced so far, they reoccur in the same territorially centralized model. And that's already in the PP Reactivation Commission a few months ago, they were talking about territorial decentralization of the event; this literally. But the facts are totally the opposite. Decentralizing Xacobeo does not consist of organizing an event in geographic locations other than Santiago de Compostela or in some towns that are not found in what would be the route of Santiago. The investments of Xacobeo should focus on issues that serve both the tourism sector and the local population, not only Santiago and the places the Way runs, but also the rest of the country, because there are many areas in the country that do not benefit from the Xacobeo for anything, at least in the way the PP has to conceive. In order for Jacob to have an expandive and positive effect throughout the country, it would be necessary for investments for Jacob to generate more job opportunities, decent and stable jobs and especially not precarious, and to improve above all the infrastructure for society and the standard of living of the local population in general, and not only for those living near a Santiago road. And that can only be achieved with the diversification of the tourist offer -- we're repeating it and we're going to repeat it again, because we don't see the Board making any progress in this direction -- and also sharing investments across the country and, above all, changing the concept of pure propaganda that the PP of Jacob has. We're repeating it and we're going to repeat it because we don't see the Joint advance in this direction. And I'm going to say this for the last time to make it even clearer: Jacob is a very good tourist and promotional brand, but Galicia has much more to offer than Jacob. The whole Xacobeo's bet on Xacobeo, a pandemic by, shows a mindset of a PP that does not, of course, have on his head, Galicia as a whole. A Greek Government that thinks of Galicia in small, unable to think of Galicia in large. The Greek Government has been focusing its tourism and cultural policies on Xacobeo for years, leaving the rest of our country's potentials forgotten. Centralizing investments for culture and tourism in the Xacobeo phenomenon makes it very comfortable, from the point of view of management, but also politically viable, for the instrumentalization of the Xacobeo that they do in the PP. That's why they focus on this brand. We do not see the same interest in Mr. Feijóo's Board in protecting our environmental, landscape or ethnographic wealth, and the evidence is that by Junta we are allowing the massive proliferation of wind projects throughout the country, with a tremendous impact on the environment, on wildlife and on areas of ethnographic or natural interest, and even with an impact on people's lives. An example of this is the Roncudo repotencing project, in Corme, authorized by the Union, and which caused irreparable damage in an area with incredible tourist potential and therefore economical, and which had been forgotten year after year by the various PP governments here in Galicia. By the way, there has been a recent judgment by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declaring the nullity of the agreement of the Council of Galicia, which approved the repo project of the wind farm of Corme III — as I point out — and do you know why they annul that agreement of the Council of Malta? By violating the rights of neighbours by reducing the deadline for consulting the environmental impact report and being able to submit allegations and by violating European legislation on sectoral reports during the public exhibition of the project. We've been saying the same thing for a long time: wind yes, but not like that. It shows the Union very much interest in facilitating the implementation of some absolutely aggressive wind projects with our territory, but it does not show the same interest in having healed our rivers, a source of work for many Greek families and tourist claims, in addition to the first order, which is not seen to value the thermal wealth of our country, exemplified in Ourense, but which extends throughout the territory, or which could extend throughout the territory, or in caring for the security of our ports. As Mr Feijó's Government does not show much interest in assuming competences in matters that would enable it to strengthen our country's international position as a consolidated tourist destination, and I mean to control airport connectivity or high-speed rail connectivity, but also proximity; they haven't done so in twelve years and, of course, they're not going to do it now. All of this is not incompatible with Santiago's Way and, of course, it's not incompatible with James. Better to bet on these other issues would strengthen the Xacobeo brand and enrich and diversify our tourist offer. Galicia needs us to enlarge our focus and value all the wealth we treasure and that goes far beyond Jacob. There is also a need for further clarification, because drafting the initiative — it is certain that with no bad intention — could give rise to misconceptions. The BNG in the Committee on House Affairs and Public Service of the Congress of Deputies did not vote against, because we are precisely not on that committee. As for the amendments tabled by the People's Group in the parliamentary process of the State's general budgets by 2022, the BNG voted yes to all those concerning Xacobeo. The BNG shows with facts that it supports all those initiatives that are positive for our country and gives us the same kind of government in Madrid or who comes from; which doesn't do the PP, which doesn't have a problem or gets rough when it votes if here in the Galician Parliament on certain issues and not in Madrid, with the sectarianism and partyism of the PP most reactionary, in many years, that has no problem going from the right hand to the right. On the contrary, from the BNG we are consistent and with the facts we show that we know and recognize the value as the brand of Jacob, which does not begin to defend an absolutely different conception of this event, which actually returns positively to most of the country and serves to show the vast tourist potential and cultural wealth. In any case — I insist — and to finish — that it is time to go home, we will vote in favour of this initiative again, more than anything because we consider it to be positive for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u209	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I was looking forward to hearing your intervention. It is noted that you are a very experienced Member, because in the ten minutes you haven't mentioned tax incentives on one occasion. I understand it, because in this question the Socialist Party is bluffing if we follow what it has done in the last ten months. They played all the chords. Here one can abstain, vote in favour or vote against. In ten months they did everything: in March they abstained, in September they voted in favour and a few days ago in the Senate they voted against. So, as I say, it is a lack of credibility, a lack of rigour, practically squeezing the mouth. I understand perfectly well that I didn't want to go to the bottom of the matter and talk about side or side issues. To try to fill these ten minutes, in addition, he resorted to a comparison that, at least, is curious. He compared the budgets of the Government of Mariano Rajoy in non-Jacobe years by comparing them with the investments — or alleged investments — of the current central government in the Jacobean biennium; I remind you that this is the only time in the history of two years of Jacobean production. So a comparison that doesn't make any sense. You said that you are going to vote in favour and, therefore, this parliamentary group — as it cannot be otherwise — appreciates that provision, but really what the Socialist Parliamentary Group would have to do is work with Madrid, with its colleagues in Madrid, and get this to go ahead. As I told you in the previous speech, we are still in time, there are possibilities, there are legal texts that are in process and, therefore, it is a matter of bringing this proposal back and of being able to incorporate the expansion of these tax incentives. In other matters, if they are more agile, as it happened last summer, when Mr. Pedro Sánchez summoned as a result of the Xacobeo the Royal Patronate of the Consortium of Santiago. They landed or came here several ministers, by the hand of the mayor of Santiago, and promised, without any kind of redhead again, 280 million euros in pharaonic works, that we had to see all the neighbors over several weeks, and at the first opportunity they had to put on black on white if these investments were real or were mere propaganda, there are the general budgets of the year 2022, where we have zero euros. So these ministers came to Santiago, they took the pictures, they got the covers — that's right, there are the covers of all the press in Santiago — but they left without leaving a single euro. I am convinced, in addition, that this is being recorded and recorded by all the neighbors of Santiago. Finally, by thanking BNG for supporting this initiative, and — as I said at the outset — we will try among all of us to correct this situation, correct this anomaly, correct this decision that has no logical argument and, therefore, achieve that extension of these tax incentives, which will ultimately be good news for Galicia, good news for the Greeks and, of course, good news for Xacobeo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-25-DSPG066.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
