ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which is questions for the President's oral answer. And before I give the floor to the spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez, I would first like to wish you luck, as well as I would also like to thank Mr. Gonzalo Caballero for his work as spokesman for this moment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as the new vice-secretaries and vice-secretaries and those who have exercised during this time as vice-secretaries and vice-secretaries. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the destination of the European funds received by our Autonomous Community in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u2	And now you have the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I sincerely appreciate your words. Of course, first of all, those addressed to the deputy and professor Gonzalo Caballero in his task as a parliamentary exvocer, and also as far as my person is concerned. Mr. President of the Galician Council, very good morning. I'm absolutely convinced that if I say "execution, control and transparency," you'll absolutely agree that these are the basic lines that should guide any budget execution in any public administration. But in 2020 the implementation of funds by the Galician Employment Board was less than 50% —parts such as funds for vocational training for unemployed people and improvements in job qualifications, a scandalous 2% —. The People's Party's commitment to vocational training is evidenced by the vote in Congress of Members of the new Law on Vocational Training, in which the People's Party was the only parliamentary arch group in Congress of Deputies who voted against it. That's this party's bet on vocational training. This, Mr President, is the lamentable plot of the execution of funds to which I am referring. [[Applause]] [[The speaker, Álvarez Martínez, shows a chart from the scene.]] I understand that you will not discuss this data, because lately we have attended a very interesting intellectual debate, surely, but worrying from the point of view of management, in which it seems that budgets and their execution are put in question by the People's Party. It's no less true that in the same program you have reduced 40% of the budget allocation with respect to the 2021 budgets. This, Mr. President, is your bet. The problem is that the failure to run the employment funds translates into more precariousness and timeliness. And here, Mr. President, you are found in front of a wall. And it's the only one responsible for this failure to execute and it doesn't find an external one — something that reassures you particularly. You translate permanently as pioneers at all, but the reality is that they're not. They demand the government of the state something that you don't do, and the management by the government of the state has the support of the European Union. And that's because it's a planned, solvent and rigorous management. [[Applause]] See, press headlines: "Brussels listens to the PP complaints about the distribution of European funds", "Second Varapalo from Brussels to the People's Party for European funds", "Brussels reminds the Casado PP that Spain receives funds for recovery because the objectives are met", "The former Montoro minister affects the PP that does not celebrate European funds and turns them into a political confrontation". The management of European funds by the Government of the State, as I said, is rigorous, solvent and planned. And you speak of discretionary division, Mr. President. And it is the Junta of Galicia that performs a discretionary distribution of public funds without competitive competition; for example, in the indecent distribution of conventions by Galician Waters, among others, which systematically benefit from the councils of the People's Party. And they are doubting the management of the central government over the European funds. But you know, Mr. President, that they are alone in that wear strategy. Mr. Feijó, you have no need to make that policy of followers of an increasingly radicalised People's Party. If you have any doubts, Mr President, about the management of European funds, I invite you to use the website enabled for this purpose by the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u5	...to account for the territorialization of these funds. By the way, where do you account for that transparency of how the funds are managed? Of the 681 million received by Galicia, there are 46 million euros for public employment policies, of which 38 are for active employment services and programmes. So, Mr President, how do you go with this history that I have just shown you to be able to efficiently manage these European funds — as history, as I told you, of failure to execute? How will you convince us? How will you ensure that the funds you are receiving from the Autonomous Community of Galicia are destined for the purposes for which they were designed to be executed by our community? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u6	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I join in congratulating the President of Parliament on his designation, Mr Álvarez, as spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And, of course, I welcome the work done by Mr. Caballero both in his capacity as a candidate for the presidency of the Council of Galicia and as a spokesperson for his group in recent times. Certainly, Your Honor, I think it's good to be serious about serious issues. And I think it's also good from time to time to change the strategy — at least, I propose it from the beginning. It's not good to be insisting on the defence of virtue of what the central government does, whether it's a party or another. When the Central Government makes decisions that harm Galicia, this Parliament must reflect them and make them available to the Greek society to try to correct them. And insisting and insisting that everything the Socialist Government does in Madrid is well done and what the Joint is wrong done is simply a melancholy exercise that leads to simply being in opposition. But, Mr. Álvarez, you ask me about the execution. I really like execution, control and transparency. Employment funds in 2020 in the Autonomous Community are committed to 84% of the budget, and in 2021 we took 78.4% committed before closing the exercise. You should check the data, Your Honor. With regard to the question you have raised to me, I am very surprised that the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is badly surprised that this Government is asking you to explain the distribution of European employment funds to the Government of Spain. Do we not deserve an explanation when there are doubts? Is it possible to ask for an explanation to go against Galicia's interests? Mr. Álvarez, do you really think that by asking for an explanation about the distribution of funds, whether they are employed or any other consideration, if they are stealing and underestimating Galician interests? Or will it be the other way around? Mr Álvarez, look, there are EUR 1,141 million in European funds on active policies. Of these 1,141 million euros, of which by constitutional judgements it is up to the autonomous communities the government of Sánchez is left to itself with 454 million euros. I mean, 40 percent of the funds that correspond to autonomous communities, the Government of Spain is paralyzing them and blocking them for itself. That is the first question I would like to ask you — if you have any information — to tell me why this time the Government of Spain remains with 40% of the employment policy funds. The second question is: what will you do with these 450 million euros that correspond to the autonomous communities? We have just handed over 9 million euros of these 450 out of the Sector Conference to four autonomous communities with socialist employment advisor or advisor. We don't even know what the reasons are or what the criteria are or why this was stolen from the Sectoral Conference. So, Your Honor, what we are talking about here is clarifications to Galicia — which I think are essential — that the Central Government retains for itself 45% of the European funds and why, of the 450 million it retains, it begins to distribute them in a completely discretionary way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u9	Don't you think, Your Honor, that this deserves an explanation? We notified the Government of Spain in December, without making any kind of noise, the request for formal clarification. We don't follow anyone, Mr. Álvarez, except for the interests of the Greeks. I would like to see you, Mr. Álvarez, not following the central government, but the interests of the Greeks. That's where we could meet. Where they won't shut up this government or the majority group is to defend Galicia's interests, or not to match the interests of their party. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u10	Thank you, President. Mr. Álvarez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u11	Thank you, Mr President of Parliament. Mr. President of Galicia, what am I accused of? I'm not doing any sort of central government follow-up, which is obviously not just public opinion, but the European Union is taking advantage of its management, which is a pity to them. I am making a proposal for an explanation that we will be guaranteed how you will run in a solvent, coherent, transparent and effective way the funds you will receive, because, Mr. President, if I had to entrust management to a collective who believes in a historical way that it is unable to manage the funds you receive, it would be deeply worried. But that concern seems to be that you don't share it. I insist, in the defence of the interests of the Galicians and the Greeks, in the defence of the interests, ultimately, of this autonomous community, you and your government will always be at your side. If we have to sue the Central Government because we consider it fair to Galicia's interests, we're going to do it. And, if necessary, we'll be next to him. But, Mr President, he shows that he deserves the confidence we are offering him. And he demonstrates it simply by being a manager, I no longer tell him as solvent as it appears to be permanently in his declarations, in his and in his governments, in which he is the pioneer government throughout the state in any way. [[Applause]] In fact, I even think of occasions that, instead of Popular Party, the "p" of popular is "p" of pioneer. It would be the Pioneer Party. But I think reality believes that's not true. Mr President, European funds really are a historic opportunity. It's not a question, no matter how much you try to convert it, whether it's acronyms or matches. It's a matter of country. And you know perfectly well that Galicia has received 681 million European funds, which makes it the sixth autonomous community, in absolute terms, that most funds have been received. Four of the six autonomous communities that received the most funds are governed by the People's Party. And you talk about sectarianism in the distribution. How is that possible? There's not the slightest agreement between your statements and the reality of your figures, which are so powerful. Mr Feijóo, what we are asking you to do is ultimately guarantees by the Government of the United States so that those funds that have arrived in Galicia will be used objectively, transparently and under strict parliamentary control. Because the objective of those funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u12	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u13	...—end, Mr President—is to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Let's stop talking about seizures, stop asking for solemn objectivity. And I'm done. Is this, Mr. President, the allocation of funds based on the colour of the municipal government that makes the Council of Galicia? Do you think this is a seizure? [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a chart.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u14	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u15	The truth is, Mr. Álvarez, I don't mind you considering that the "p" of the People's Party is "pioneer," in no case. In fact, we were pioneers asking for what Galicia had to do with the EVI debt. From these stands it was said to make us a theater, that really the Government of Spain owed nothing to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We try to negotiate constantly and continuously. The answer was of permanent superiority. We had to denounce our government, the Government of Spain. And he had to come to the Supreme Court saying that they actually owed us more than 210 million euros, while you told us we weren't loyal. We were loyal to Galicia. That's why we are pioneers, Your Honor, for defending the interests of the autonomous community. [[Applause]] Now, if it seems to you that 84% of budget execution is a low execution, you should review the budget execution, for example, of the Deputy of the Crown or of the Deputy of Lugo. I should check them out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what is surprising, Your Honor, is that you're going back to insisting on employment funds, when you get 73 million and 58% of those 73 million, which we received at the end of 2021, are running on early-expenditure records. In other words, in the year 2021, forward-looking expenditure files were against the 2022 budget, before Parliament approved this budget. So, exactly, Your Honor, you should see the entire execution of funds from the autonomous communities and see how Galicia is once again within the pioneering communities in the execution of the European funds. Look, here's the chapter, for example, of the Crown Deputy. In 2016, the Coruña Parliament executed 38% of the total budget, 38%; in 2017, 43%; in 2018, 37%; in 2019, 40%; and in 2020, 40.8%. Are you really here asking for explanations of execution of funds when you're not able to execute a budget of a deputy, Your Honor? A little respect to reality, Your Honor! [[Applause]] Anyway... Don't worry that we have the execution of funds from the rest of the Members. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We talk about it whenever we want. Yes, including Lugo's. [[Murmurs.]] But he comes here saying that there is no follow-up to the Government of Spain, that we are asking for what we don't belong to and that we don't execute. I simply ask you to consult more media, Your Honor. What Europe is very happy about with Spain with European funds... man!, reading a media is a lack of media plurality in Spain. But, finally, you keep reading a media so you don't know what's going on in the country. [[Murmurs.]] But to say that he doesn't come to make follow-up, man, it's a surprising thing. Do you really think it is appropriate that 40% of the funds allocated to us to the autonomous communities in employment manage them directly from the Government of Spain and go distinguishing friends to give them the funds without competition and outside the Sector Conference? Are you going to report that? Yes, I saw the other day that you invited Ferrol to the Minister of Development. Surprising! And you know what they talked about in Ferrol? You didn't talk about the high-speed train, did you? And that you don't follow the Government of Spain! It's regrettable, it's unfortunate that a Spanish government minister comes to Ferrol and the Socialist Party doesn't speak a second of the high-speed train to Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u17	That's not follow-up, Your Honor, that's just making fun of defending the country's interests. Mr. Álvarez, look, if you're going to defend Galician interests, we're going to meet many times in the agreement, in dialogue and in consensus. If you come here to say one thing and the opposite, there will be more difficulties. Now, if the PSOE refuses to join us in the defence of Galicia and the BNG continues as a permanent partner with the Socialist Party of Galicia, it will understand that the People's Party of Galicia and the Council of Galicia are more necessary than ever in the defence of Galicia's interests. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u18	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the measures it intends to take to strengthen primary care in view of its collapse situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u19	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to join you in congratulating you on the appointment of Mr. Álvarez and also on the recognition of the work that Mr. Caballero has done in this case as spokesman for the Socialist Party in this House. And already going to the question, Mr. Feijóo, today, before going up to this plenary, I searched Google for "deterioration of health in Galicia." I don't know if you know what the outcome was. In 0.66 seconds, 1,070,000 news came out of the deterioration of public health in this country from north to south and in all areas of health. [[Applause]] In any case, it should be said that this deterioration of public health is not the result of one chance. This responds to your ideological roadmap, which consists of cropping and privatizing in public health to benefit from private health. And this not only denounces BNG, which too. I'm going to read you some statements: "The management of health has some rigidities proper to an administrative office. In everything other than the hard core of the health system you can experience with private management instruments." I don't know if you know who these statements are, Mr. Feijóo. Don't you hear them? Don't you? I'll remind him and refresh his memory. On May 21, 2012 —information breakfast in Madrid — you leave this headline: "He opened the door to privatize in what is not the hard core of health and proposes to experiment with the presence of the private sector in the rest of the system." It's been experimented, Mr. Feijóo! And those experiments are paying us the citizenship of this country with their health. [[Applause]] And I hope it doesn't seem like a disrespect to the hemerotheque to realize what's going on. It says, "Emergency patients wait seventy-two hours to sit down." This could be a headline yesterday itself. But no, it's a 2012 headline. And so we could continue in 2013, in 2014 or 2015. You're like, "They misjudge health and now they're trying to privatize it," "For several days to get a primary appointment," "Protestations against the closure of services and the deterioration of primary care." And so we arrived at 2018: "The service chiefs of Vigo's health centers' block resignation. They denounce an unsustainable situation, with unacceptable waiting lists and deplorable working conditions." I'm going to repeat the adjectives that professionals use: "insossible", "inacceptable", "deployable"... In 2019, "thousands of Greeks cry against the privatization of the health system and lack of means." After this, Mr. Feijóo, there came a pandemic which is leaving us a critical situation. And let me tell you how professionals synthesize this situation: "Primordial attention unburdened, they're escaping from other diseases" — they're January 2022 declarations. And for all this, I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, who plans to do so in the face of the collapse of primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u22	I suggest to you, Mrs. Pontón, that when you consult on Google, you put the word "Galicia", which will come out to you many more meanings that the word "Galiza" is called because Galicia is not the name of Galicia. In any case, Your Honor, if the BNG is also against the Royal Academy, nothing happens, nothing happens at all. [[Applause]] It's just that it's important to agree at least on what's called the country. [[Murmurs.]] You don't agree with anyone, but that's your problem, it's not our problem. [[Laughter]] We defend Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, tell me about the year 2012, about the year 2019. In 2012 there were elections, after 2019 there were elections too. Your words don't seem to have much interest in polls, because the Greeks are much smarter than you think. Look, right now there are 6,400 more people working in the Galician Health Service than when you were in charge. And there is, therefore, 26% more budget than when you ruled. At this point, serious pathologies wait for fifteen days, and when you were ruling, you were waiting for months. And right now, despite the pandemic, you should feel proud of Galicia. First, because we are the autonomous community with less penisular mortality during two years of pandemic. Second, because we're the first autonomous community in vaccinated population since the vaccines came out. And thirdly, Your Honor, because we have been the autonomous community with less hospital occupation in the plant and in the ICU for every month on a continuous basis. So, the Galego Health Service is responding, working and has a powerful health service. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, in fact, we've had two years of pandemic and a lot of things have changed. He's conditioned the whole world's economy and they've changed a lot of things, except the BNG. The BNG doesn't change speech with pandemics, prepandemia, pandemics or post-pandemia. We already know BNG's speech: privatization and 200 million euros are missing in primary. All right, you go on. I had already come around here as a senior health officer in 1990 and they said the same thing. In the 20th century, the BNG proposal was the same as that of the 21st century, and it will continue as long as the BNG is not extinct. But we should adapt BNG's proposals to reality, and the reality, Your Honor, is that we are in full pandemic and have been reporting for years that doctors have been missing, that primary care doctors are missing, that pediatricians are missing from primary care. [[Murmurs.]] We started detecting it in 2018 and we did a primary care commission in 2019. But I've never heard BNG say there's a shortage of doctors, unless millions are missing, as if millions become doctors. Mrs. Pontón, look, stop asking for the 200 million euros that we already have in primary care and ask for 200 more doctors, which is what we asked for. Now yes, to ask for 200 more doctors, you have to argue with your partners. And you won't ask your partners or argue with them, nor will you detect the responsibility of the Socialist Party — its partners — because the BNG is without 200 political positions. And you prefer the 200 political charges than the 200 doctors. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, we continue to reiterate that what is being done with the National Health System is an act of enormous irresponsibility: neither extraordinary MIR, nor specialization of family doctors and emergency doctors, nor public offers of additional employment, nor increase MIR training systems. What do you want us to do, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u24	We are the autonomous community with the best vaccination data in Europe. I'm proud of the Galego Health Service. Do we have primary care saturation problems? Yeah, with 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, 9,000 or 10,000 lows a day, you tell me that the system doesn't have a saturation problem. Tell me what the BNG model is, Your Honor. What we are saying is that in Galicia the pandemic has been handled, by health professionals and by the responsibility of the Greeks, far better than the rest of the vast majority of the European regions. And that's why we're going to go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u26	Yesterday, the councillor said: retired doctors and unskilled doctors who want to work to reduce the bureaucratic burden and a public job offer, Spain's first primary medical specialist, with 106 places. This is Galicia's answer, Spain's first, to bet on primary care. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u28	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is you're very strange today. There's a problem, and instead of blaming anyone, he put the solutions on the table. It's, of course, a novelty. How strange!, Mr. Feijóo sought guilty instead of seeking solutions when we have the public health of this collapsed country. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, and there's one thing that doesn't really change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u29	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u30	It looks like the 19th century, the 20th century or the 21st century, the PP proposals are to privatize, privatize and privatize public health to benefit from private health. That never changes, it's their old recipes that continue to endanger the health of this country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because, look, what you're not going to get with all the manipulation -- not twisting the data -- is making us shut up. It will not prevent us from reporting in this Parliament the brutal deterioration that their policies are producing, because you are "the health privatizer," and a risk to the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] You miss the professionals, Mr. Feijóo. You miss the professionals when we have, for example, a nurse at the Ourense hospital that they sign 34 contracts in sixty days. We're talking about 28 contracts a day. That's a lack of respect for professionals. You miss the professionals when you have health centers, from north to south of this country, with fewer doctors and doctors than you need. [[Applause]] We're talking about situations like the Guard's, where eight doctors only have three, or Viveiro's, where only five doctors are ten. And ask yourself and explain to us, Mr Feijóo, because if over the last five years four hundred primary health care doctors and doctors have been trained, only half have entered the public health system. It's because of the precarious conditions that you're driving your staff, which makes you leave this country. And I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to go into your new official car to assume data to the people in this country, when they ask for an appointment, they have to wait a week or two weeks. [[Applause]] Go with the patients who have to wait 14 days and tell them that the data is better than ever and that health has absolutely no problem. Of course, you miss out on professionals and Greek citizenship when you have primary care with an investment that puts us at the state queue, 12%, which is just half of what all specialists recommend about what primary care needs. Look, Mr. Feijóo, you're left with pride and no proposals. And I hope that today, before going out the door of this Parliament, I will announce a plan for improving primary care. [[Murmurs.]] I hope that, before I leave this Parliament door... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u31	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u32	...advertises the recovery of primary care agencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u34	...that before going out the door of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u35	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u36	...announces that there will be an end to that precariousness that is driving so many professionals out of the health system, because you have the responsibility. Mr. Feijó, less sovereignty and more proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question. Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pontón, my colleagues say — I do not know — that in February you are 18 years old in the Chamber, 18 years old, on the same banner, the same speech, and it is the same in a pandemic as without a pandemic. Your Honor, do you ever stop lying to the Greeks in health, at least for a while? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not even during the pandemic? Will you change your speech? You're not even going to congratulate the Galego Health Service for the management of the pandemic? I criticize the Government and congratulate the Galego Health Service, we're used to it, Your Honor. But at least congratulate the Galician Health Service. Look, Your Honor, saying that the problem we have is a problem with the privatization of health is something soez. The problem is that we're in a pandemic for two years and the problem is that we don't have doctors every time a doctor gets sick, or every time a doctor retires, or every time a doctor asks for a regular vacation. And to accompany the People's Party—if it doesn't want the People's Party, Galicia—in this fair, reasonable claim, is what any party called itself "nationalist" should do. It's the least I could do: working with the Greeks to improve the number of doctors available in the country. You come here again to damage the image of the Galician Health Service. Less bad than the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe know perfectly how the pandemic was handled. If we are the first autonomous community to vaccinate, it will be because vaccination is well managed, including primary care. If we are the first autonomous community with less hospital occupation in the plant and in the ICU, it will be because we do a lot of tests to prevent the pandemic from spreading and avoiding serious ICU and plant disease. If we are the first autonomous community, Your Honor, in mortality — which is the definitive balance of a pandemic — it will be because things have been done better than the rest of the place. Look, Your Honor, what is the model of the Galician Nationalist Block in the management of the pandemic? What autonomous community should we look at? Do you review what is happening in the autonomous communities? Look, we took primary care, to alleviate the problems of primary during the pandemic, 12 million medical acts, which we did through specific nursing on the subject of vaccination, in specific seizures, in commitment to the pharmacies—only the pharmacies distributed 1 million covid certificates—. Your Honor, they've all been working: 5 million diagnostic tests outside the health centers, 5 million diagnostic tests! and 5,800,000 vaccines out of the health centers. Your Honor, what are we doing? They work in primary care 831 people more now than when you rule, 831! —104 doctors, 378 nurses, 369 health and non-health workers in health centres. There are 90 reformed and built health centers. Now we have 51 new health centers in our portfolio during this legislation. In the health barometer of the Ministry of Health, the assessment of public health in Galicia is the highest in history, with 6.78; in primary care, the best service, with 7.46 — the average of Spain is 7.2—.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u40	But, Your Honor, I have just announced, in addition, that of the 80s and peak retired doctors. Look how we have to be that the Government of Spain authorizes hiring retired doctors — and Mrs Pontón speaking of privatization —. Look how we have to be that we are constantly asking for and continuing an extraordinary MIR. And the BNG officials never accompanied us on the proposal. Why? Because they prefer to be PSOE partners rather than criticize PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u42	It's a funny thing. But I repeat again: 86 retired doctors, and they have just targeted 150 untitled doctors to reduce the bureaucracy of primary care. We'll look at all the resumes to see how reasonable it is to hire. I have just proposed — for the first time in Spain — to the National Health System an offer of primary care area specialist, with 106 medical places directly from the training of a family doctor to the Galician Health System — a job offer of 106 squares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u43	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u44	Your Honor, tell me what else you can do. And, above all, tell me one thing, Your Honor, what is your model? I am deeply sorry, Your Honor, that, between supporting Galicia and the Galician Health Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u46	...and get angry with your partners, always say the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u47	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u48	A lot of Galician, a lot of Galician, no, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u49	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u50	A lot of socialism, a lot of socialism and very little Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u51	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u52	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u53	Thank you. We're still on the agenda. In this case we continue with the last non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and 14 other Members, on the demand from the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for a commitment to ensure the reactivation of the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u54	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u55	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u56	Good morning, president, and thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on January 20th, the media echoed the fact that for the marine region, for the province of Lugo, for Galicia, but also very especially for Spain, I understand that it was a very bad news: "Spain stops manufacturing aluminum. The multinational will complete today the shutdown of San Cibrao's vats." [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] Probably the shout most heard in the streets of Jupiter, of San Cibrao, of the main municipalities of the Navy, of the province, but also of other parts of Galicia and even of Madrid, was that the Cubans did not stop. It was the red line that we all understood to mark a point of no return, and today we hope it doesn't, but the tubs did stop. Today we are again bringing an initiative that surely — or at least we are going to try — to have the support of all the political groups in this House, with the same coherence that we addressed to all the Greeks and Greeks when we analyzed this situation, and by 2019, when Alcoa said high and clear that he could not continue to manufacture primary aluminium in Spain because the high cost of energy made that manufacture absolutely non-competitive and that affected its viability. The chronology of facts is certainly a rocky scenario, which, as I said yesterday when we analyzed the situation of the primary sector, if we didn't talk about jobs, if we didn't talk about the uncertainty and insecurity that we now have many families we know, the ones we know the name of them, the ones we know their children, who have bet on our territory to continue working, because it would, of course, give rise to a very interesting political debate. But this is not about political debates, it's about responsible decisions that work for the continuity of jobs in Galicia and Spain. The paralysis of primary aluminium production on the Alcoa plant for two years is not good news for The Marine of Lugo, as it said, but not for Spain, and it shows again the most negative finding that the energy policy of the Government of Spain is totally wrong. It's generating a dismantling -- which we can't afford -- of jobs and it's affecting our autonomous community very specifically. In a production where the energy cost can reach 60% of the cost of production, manufacturing in Spain costs twice as much as in France; in Germany, 42% less. Now is the time for Alcoa and the Government of Spain to get involved, for that reactivation of the tanks to take place, and there is no need to wait for 2024. The necessary measures must be taken to ensure that such reactivation is more immediate. The agreement which was put to the vote and that the representatives of the workers themselves acknowledged to be the least bad option - undoubtedly, all that was at the table did not satisfy them - has a very clear paragraph in the energy field, both the document that sent Alcohol and the document that the Committee reported, which passed, due to the importance of the topic, to read exactly as it is drafted: "Alcoa will work to reach as soon as possible electrical supply agreements for a medium-term period from 2024 to at least ten years, so that a minimum competitive energy price can be reached for the plant. Progress will be shared with the Follow-up Commission and the European Committee will share the conditions of pre-agreements in accordance with the confidentiality requirements of suppliers." [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document, from which you will read some fragment.]] As we said in 2019, as we said in 2020, as we said in 2021 and as we insisted again in 2022: we need a price of competitive energy to keep manufacturing primary aluminium in Spain; activity, by course, essential declared by the Government of Spain at the time, as you know, of confinement. The Galician Parliament — which today puts this to the vote — urges Junta to demand a clear commitment from the Government of Spain and Alcoa to ensure the reactivation of the San Cibrao plant as well as the participation of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Reto — the Ministry, to which I do not know what wrong it has done, which, without doubt, is taking so many prejudicial decisions for our autonomous community, to assist all the meetings of the Follow-up Commission - and I point out that because, as you know, I have been quite absent in this whole process, or by applying that policy of ostrich - this follow-up commission constituted after the agreement between the company and the employees as the department responsible for establishing a competitive energy framework to guarantee the future of primary aluminium production. In point 2 — that is what we put to the vote — we continue to work with that constructive spirit alongside the workers and to provide the necessary support. And point 3, ladies and gentlemen - undoubtedly very important in order to be able to comply with the agreement signed between Alcoa and the workers - is to take the necessary measures to consider as priority business initiatives the projects regulated by Law 8/2009 of 22 December, which contains with permission of strong and effective access and connection, whose promoters subscribe to a direct agreement on long-term energy purchase and competitive price, ensuring at least 50% of energy consumption, with a company with work centre and industrial activity in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Wales, linking these projects to the specific work centre of what is concerned. This situation, which the Government of Spain has not been able to provide a solution since 2009, is probably in the chronicle of more lies and more deceptions. There's an important chronology here that has been promised to pass the statutes. Every time there was an election appointment, they called the workers to tell them and assured them that they would give Alcoa a solution with the approval of the statute, and they had their status hidden until there was no remedy but to teach it and bring it to light. And when they taught the status, they realized that, as Galicia of the main autonomous communities with electro-intensive companies, it was in the eighth or ninth place, and that all these resources were destined for other parts of the territory, those who had more political interest than to protect the jobs of our autonomous community. This Parliament has repeatedly stood up to strengthen and subscribe to the essential approval of the allegations to those statutes, because we all knew that it was a mistake and that it did not give a solution to Alcoa. They passed the statutes without taking into account any of the allegations and there, let me tell you, that we are going to build, undoubtedly; but, to know where we are, we have to know where we came from and we also have to be very clear who caused this situation. I remember a demonstration in 2019. BNG's voicer, who so much likes to pull out of the hemerothec when it comes to dealing with the president of all the Greeks, warned Sánchez that if he wanted his support and his vote had to give a solution to the electrointensives. I still asked him two or three times today what was really the deal they reached, and he didn't have a solution for the electrointensives, but if he had the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, which, by the way, he still practically gave it back to him in the last budgets. They clearly breached the agreement with Alcoa's workers, and they were unable to vote against it, they simply made some criticism, adorning an abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to look at the future, it is time to guarantee the thousands of families waiting for the reactivation of the tanks, which, in fact, will have a serious commitment and an effective commitment that in Spain can produce primary aluminum so that we have a price of competitive energy. Deceptions are no longer valid. The vats have stopped. It's no longer worth blaming Alcoa, it's no longer worth criminalizing anyone, instead of taking responsibility. The Navy, Galicia and Spain are very much involved in this decision. You told them to ask for reindustrialization plans. And I say -- and I've repeated it several times -- it won't be easier to keep the jobs we have -- without inventing documents, that the paper supports everything -- and it won't be much easier to approve that electro-intensive status and give it to the competitive energy mechanism for the manufacture of private aluminum and not fool people anymore? It has no more objective than once again to reach a unanimous agreement, but undoubtedly the vote is the least important -- because it said so, and so on, you can go to the hemerotheque and you know I'm not lying -- In the allegations to the Statute everyone supported us. All the groups represented in this House voted favourably, but then the reality is that they did nothing at all. They probably tricked us all; they also tricked you. But I finish how I started many of my interventions. On this subject we all have the same concern, but not all of us have the same responsibility, and in this case I believe that the Government of Spain is the only one responsible for ensuring that jobs are maintained in the Navy. I hope that this initiative will be supported. The Socialist Party has tabled an amendment including the Union. She's sitting, of course, who she is. We pointed out this ministry because it was not at first, it is in the workers' agreement, that we have maintained, explained and confirmed — allow me, Mr. Álvarez, to tell you that it is normal today that it is with a lot of energy, because it is beginning, and we demonstrate it. I always finish my speeches by thanking that responsible work -- telling people the truth -- and rigorously from the Industry Advisor. I told him and I kept him: believe me that many representatives of the Socialist Party, many of the workers, can't have much courage to look at his face. I know what I'm talking about, because, like I told you, they're from there and I know a lot of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The truth is, when Mrs. Candia started talking, she agreed with her. He said last January 20th in our village, in the Navy region, he lived a sad fact, like that Cuban stop, because, in fact, the workers were struggling for a lot of time why those vats hadn't stopped. But those pots, as Mrs. Candia said, stopped last January 20th. I thought this initiative today that the People's Party was bringing to this House with a totally constructive will, and I am missing it, because it seemed in the way in which it was formulated and in its resolution; yes, asking only that commitment to the Central Government, and in particular to the Ministry of Economic Transition, but nothing spoke of the Unity of Galicia, that it also has responsibilities towards that possible rebrascration of the tanks, and also ahead of it that the production of aluminium should function again, because so you also recognize it with your point 3 of the initiative itself. But something has to do with the Galician Union, something can do with these priority projects, which we agree with and which we will support. It's the initiative that the People's Party brings today, but we've missed a little bit of what it had also put into that commitment to Junta de Galicia. And in that sense -- if they don't know her -- our amendment goes. We have, of course, asked the Central Government to ensure that, of course, the fulfilment of those commitments that have been reached between Alcoa and the workers, but we also ask the Council of Galicia to do its duties, that it does not circumvent its responsibilities, that it also has a lot to say and a lot to do so that the tanks can be put to work before January 2024, which is the agreement they have adopted. You were talking about the timing of the facts and saying that the price of energy began to be a problem for Alcoa in 2019. No, Mrs. Candia. You, who are from the Navy like me, know that the problem of the price of energy for Alcoa has been coming for a long time. And the People's Party, when it was in Madrid, was putting patches, because it never put a definitive solution on the table that had ended this problem. You told them to talk about the statute of electrointensives, but you weren't able to work and approve that statute of electrointensives. [[Applause]] Because I want to admit, Mrs. Candia, that, of course, that in 2012, you already said that that problem was going to be solved. And by that time the Minister of Industry, Mr. Soria, precisely at the doors of the Alcoa San Cibrao factory, said that on January 1, 2013, there would be a system to ensure Alcoa's competitiveness at least as much as it affected electricity costs. So in 2012 there was already a problem with the costs of electricity for Alcoa. So I agree with you that this is not the time to look back; that is the time to look forward to the future, that it is time to work all and all together to give that future to our region and, of course, to give that hope of future to the workers, who for now have two years guaranteed their jobs plus five years of commitment which Alcoa has adopted that no employment regulation file would be made in that five-year period. And, as a result of that agreement, I want to remember that also now Alcoa will be able to opt for those aids -- which I couldn't opt for earlier -- from the statute of electrointensives and also from other aids that can come from the next generation funds. I miss you a little bit, Mrs. Candia, who didn't say anything and who don't respect the agreement reached legitimately by the workers; an agreement I mean, that I want to tell you, Mrs. Candia, that was reaffirmed by 70% of the workers and the workers. [[Applause]] And by some of the leaders of the People's Party criticized that agreement that the workers and Alcoa had reached; an agreement that certainly hurt the workers and the workers because they had to sign this cessation of aluminium production, that stop of the tanks, so they were so much fighting. But, of course, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, absolute respect for the workers' decision, which we know everything that has given them to sign that agreement. The point we're at today is a point that's better than the starting point we had in the year 2019, which was that these workers would stay in the street and that the Alcoa factory had been closed. So, do we like the final result? No, nobody wanted to stop the tanks, but it's best; we're in a better position than the starting situation. The most complicated -- because now it seems that Mrs. Candia said that she shouldn't blame Alcoa at all -- was Alcoa's attitude to not being at any time part of the solution. But after the decisions of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia and the Supreme Court itself - which ratified the illegality of that employment regulation file - and thanks to the efforts of the workers, the unions, but also of the administrations, the Council of Galicia and the Government of Spain - they were able to, with these legal reports, also to take that employment regulation file. So it has changed the position of Alcoa, which didn't want to be part of the solution, but when the ERE was taken, it rethinked this possibility and put forward a proposal that I want to remember that it was ratified by the workers and the workers, with 70% of the votes in favour. That temporary cessation of two-year activity has Alcoa's commitment to invest these $103 million in order to ensure future viability, to ensure plant growth, to also ensure what the workers so asked for: to invest in that plant that was being left dead and an avalanche, which we know today is deposited. But I believe that it is the obligation of all parties and, in particular, of the Central Government to ensure that this investment is carried out. Of course, employment has been guaranteed at the Alcoa factory, but it must also be ensured by its compliance, and also by a new six-year vigil agreement. So we're not in the situation that we liked, but it's a better situation — I repeat — than the starting point, the year 2019, which presented a job regulation file and left thousands of workers on the street. So now you have to work all the administrations to ensure also what Mrs. Candia was reading, which was collected in the agreement, which are those agreements that you have to get to Power Supply Alcohol that guarantee a competitive price, as they seem to already have half negotiated with two companies. So the administrations must work. I don't know why Mrs Candia wants to conceal the responsibility of the Galician board, when, in particular — as I told her — at the third point of her proposal, they talk about agitating and giving them forward to those priority projects that can then ensure that Alcoa — here is not just about Alcoa at that third point — and other companies can sign those supplies of long-term energy purchase at a competitive price, which we are familiar with as what the PPPs are. So there are procedures that you have to authorize and that you have to monitor the central government, but there are also procedures that you have to authorize and that you have to monitor the Galician Union itself, and so remember the workers the other day before entering the second follow-up table of that agreement. They wanted to know the chronology and how those procedures were going to be able to authorize these priority processes of the People's Party in its initiative, but there they have to see both the Galician Union and the Central Government. On our part, we understand that, now that there is that agreement, what we have to do is to ensure that it does not remain in a wet, fulfilling role, that these jobs are guaranteed, and, of course, that Alcoa does everything possible to achieve those long-term energy supply contracts at a competitive price, of course, with support from different administrations. It is true that the Central Government has already told them that they could now re-choose these funds from the Statute of Intensives, which I agree, Mrs. Candia, which is not enough, that other mechanisms must be put on the table. But it is true that they can also opt for the new European funds and the recovery plan funds, as well as for the private investment fund, as well as for the fund which guarantees public assets for those bilateral contracts to close those PPAs that I was talking about earlier. So I show absolute respect for the decision the workers made. Now, administrations have to ensure that this commitment is not left in a wet role and that Alcoa really does everything she's committed to. For our part, of course, we will support the initiative presented by the People's Parliamentary Group today, but we believe it would be much more appropriate to include the Galician Union as the administration which also has competence and can do things so that the tanks can be put into operation before that January 1, 2024, which is what they have reflected in the agreement between Alcoa and the workers. So we believe that it would be more likely not to be a single administration, but to be the two administrations that have competence and that they can do things so that the Navy will continue to have a future. So we'd show that we're here today with a constructive spirit, and not to mess with each other's political groups, but, of course, to fight for what the workers are asking us to do. Mrs. Candia, you'd end up saying that many of the Socialist Party's charges we couldn't look at the workers in the face, because you're from there and you know it well. And we've never listened to our responsibilities, not even at the most complicated moments of a demonstration, which you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u60	...that both the mayors of the Socialist Party and the offices of the Socialist Party itself have always been able to face and talk to the workers and the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u62	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u63	For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castro García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. If I don't say it, I burst and I don't know if it's because I'm a philologist or because I have two fingers in front, but for the Royal Galician Academy, Galicia or Galicia, these are equally historical and linguistic terms. So, it was to see if the Royal Galaga Academy is more attentive when it says that the teaching that you created is a disqualifying factor for our youth. [[Murmurs.]] They're more of a case for the Royal Galaga Academy and the Galician Culture Council, since the president has appointed it. [[Applause]] And, well, today the People's Party comes here primarily to do two things with this initiative. The first one is to wash up a little bit with Alcoa, because the past and the hemerotheca is what it is, and the role they played in all these months of struggle was what it was; and, as they know that they did it wrong, because they bring this initiative. The first one is that months and months have passed on from the company's side — today he came back to see why Alcoa is no longer to blame for anything, he is blessed — defending his speech. The same thing as the company said, same boy, was repeated by the People's Party, and in the same way it was months and months also without appearing at any demonstration, concentration or meeting with the company committee. Besides, it's normal for them to feel bad because they have certain hemerotheques, too, in the sense of the vote. You voted against the intervention in Congress, voted against the Industrial Plan -- even on the same day in the morning that they went to the general strike and in the afternoon they voted against -- and also voted against that hypothetical intervention by the Board of Directors. Because, of course, it's much better and it's much easier to use the suffering of thousands of families and thousands of jobs to confront the government of the state. But then, when the Union has to take letters in the matter, and it has to put money in order for it to weigh the German Government, for there's already more difficult. And, of course, this makes us look like when Alcoa was asked by the president of this country, a company that has a third of the GDP of the province of Lugo, which is vital to an entire territory for The Navy, the president says — and still above the saying so—: "Today, as President, I cannot confirm the continuity of Alcoa in 2024." [[Applause]] Well, then, let's go to the elections directly from Pittsburgh, because if the president can't know anything about what's going to happen in 2024 about a company that's a third of Lugo's GDP, why are we here? Let them present themselves to the elections; it is much better! And once I've met the first goal, which was to wash the room, because they come to the main. Because the main thing is that third point, which has such a reverse writing, so twisted, which is to trap the wind. And if a month ago my companion Olalla Rodil told them that for what it's Greek nationalism you are dummies — that they are — I come today to make a recognition, which is that to make legislative pirouettes — especially with windmills — you are the master classes, the top levels, the best..., the best ones, as they want. Because the truth is, with this point 3 you pull your hat out. And I'm going to tell you a content to really represent what this point 3 means, which is behind the story. It's true that the story, perhaps, was better told by my partner Mini, as it's better for him, but I'm going to try and make sure he's pretty clear. The story begins on January 1st this same year in 2022 when the Budget Accompanying Act came into force in 2022, and the processing moratorium on new wind farms was introduced until 2023. Then the almighty Union said it was unable to analyze all the requests it received and decided to stop for a while, take a break. Well, you, ladies and gentlemen, will be asked what happened to this moratorium after a few days. And already in history in the castle of San Caetano, the gentlemen of the patronate of the wind came in for a few days to peer at the castle of San Caetano, and the gentleman Feijóo, who told the gentlemen of the patronal of the wind: Pass, pass, pass to the round table to which I will take them. On that round table, the gentlemen of the windman's employer told him: President Feijóo, we need measures of "stimulation" of the wind sector. [[Mr. Castro García waves his fingers to indicate that that word will be quoted.]] So, the gentleman Feijóo, with all the people who were at the board of Galicia, at the board building, said, "Measures of propitiation of the wind?" So, how can we stimulate the sector? And they were reminded that in the fog and rainy north, above all, there was a large, very large company that needed a lot of energy. Then, tell the legend that above the heads of all those people who were in San Caetano appeared simultaneously light bulbs and said to the unison: And if we bind Alcoa's energy needs to the necessity of this wind-stimulation...! [[Mr. Castro García is doing the same gestures again with his fingers.]] The brilliant minds of San Caetano came raw and fast to the new law of business areas, and after checking that there was not a single word, not a single allusion, to the wind sector in that draft which they themselves had made public, they did not hesitate at any time to introduce a new article that if he talks about the wind and axillizes his processing; two weeks after he entered the moratorium of the wind up to 2023. [[Applause]] End, the story's over. And if you have an abrupt ending, but to me already in high school and then in the career they taught me to do literary analysis, and in order to do literary analysis, you have to know the sociopolitical context, the artistic influences of the author -- in this case Feijóo, who we can talk about Greenical and Iberdrolic influences -- and, well, know a little about how the thing goes. And it turns out that in order to guarantee the activity the 365 days of Alcoa with wind energy would require 1,335 megawatts. And you'll be asked, these two companies that were willing to supply Alcoa with energy for pure philanthropy to the marine people, nothing more, how much power have they installed in the Navy? For 22.5 megawatts only in ourrol. There's a lot to go back up and a lot will speed this law up! But I'm also going to what the gentlemen of the bosses of the windmill said, they also say that we have to look at this figure; that there's a minimum time limit for six years to run an wind farm. Six years! And the People's Party tells us that before 2024 they're going to be put into operation some wind farms that aren't even in execution. It's going to be agile that, instead of being at least 2028, before 2024 will be working! I'm saying this because now maybe we're going to see that's what's behind this point 3 is so twisted. Alcoa's here, but don't be fooled, they've been talking 9 minutes from the 10th from Alcoa, and Alcoa's missing, eh!, Alcoa's only alibi. So we've come to the conclusion -- that it's not that I'm here because I'm very smart, not much less; it's almost all the Navy, and the least I've ever stopped reading this a little bit -- So the conclusion is, won't you be using Alcoa as an alibi to pull out wind farms that don't comply with regulations? Won't they be using, then, the suffering of thousands of families and a whole territory that's been there for days as well, the day they've been manifesting, and they've taken that fear that's good for them now to condition also the municipalities of the whole Navy and get those wind farms ahead of them for their friends and friends? Is it bad? Yeah, probably, yeah. Is it real? [[Applause]] Very much. As real as life itself! Well, that's what's behind these three points and inside that writing. This is a little bit like when you did an exam and you didn't know very well to write, because you put a writing like this up to see if it happened. So this is point 3 of the People's Party, and the story -- that's what happens, that's what it means. But we as BNG bring alternatives, and there they go at these four points that we put in the amendment. First of all, yes, the central government has to do what it has to do. And so at first we don't touch anything at all, because at that point they're right. Secondly -- and I know you don't like it -- because we're talking about the industrial plan again. We've been talking about this for ten years, since 2012, and after the last ten years, we've had a thousand less industrial jobs, we have over a dozen companies that have closed and the People's Party continues to say that the best industrial plan is to keep Alcoa. Now the president of this country himself says that his continuity cannot be guaranteed, Vestas no longer exists, and still has no need to have any industrial plan. So, I'd rather they say, we're never going to do it; that although we close everything and close the entire Navy, we're never going to do the Industrial Plan. At least that's how we could tell people already more sure. Thirdly, this is as radical as demanding from the central government that the communities that export electricity have a damage to the beaches. I mean, if we have all the costs of producing here, we have some advantage; to act a little as a country once and for all. It's just, of course, this, at best, they tell people that in Spain they wouldn't understand it, that the Spaniards wouldn't understand it. So I'll tell you the same thing again: the problem is that, at best, in Jupiter and in Cervo they do understand. [[Applause]] But you're afraid that people understand that ruling themselves brings benefits and improves their quality of life, so they vote every time they don't, and I think today's going to be a new episode. I hope the miracle comes forth. Finally, at the fourth point, we call for participation to be democratic, for legal certainty and for what is built to happen in the country and for added value to be generated. Here, advantages for the Galician companies. But all of this could be summed up in what we always say, which is this phrase: the use of natural resources, at the service of the people always, always, always. As BNG we're always going to defend that everything we have in our country benefits our people. In the People's Party they think that everything we have in this country that benefits their friends from Geenalia and their friends from Iberdrola. And here's the difference, because, in the end, we don't ask for utopias or anything, we don't ask for anything that can't be fulfilled. We asked for three very simple things: working in Galicia, improving the quality of life of our people and finally something so simple and so difficult to live here; that utopia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u65	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u66	Well, five minutes I don't know if they'll make it. Mr. Castro, since Galicia, as our rule prays, the Statute of Self-Government, which you are sure to agree with. Look, politics is something very serious, it's something very serious! Politics doesn't keep up with continuum, eh! The contents are for something else, they're for something else! [[Murmurs.]] And believe me, in matters of eating or containing, it's worth your attention. You always assume you're a very young person, whom I congratulate on. That's how old it is. But, in any case, the fact of being young doesn't mean he shouldn't be documented every time he intervenes. And don't come — believe me, and I tell you from the heart, because it hurt me your intervention — to laugh at the workers, who don't know what's going to happen on the 24th day; with the contents of the evil, the rich and the poor, of the Middle Ages, that we're in 2022. [[Murmurs.]] And you, counting content, like anyone buys, is a person who asked for the vote for this lady, who told the neighbors of the Navy that he had fixed it. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Candia López shows a photograph.]] This one. Do you see the picture? Holder: "BNG-PSOE Agreement, AP-9 Bonus, Skills and Alcoa". So..., the phylological continuums and analyses, which are super important, for other debates, that they won't eat in the Navy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, I know it hurts, but the theater is worth some things, but for the future of Alcoa it's not worth it, and it's not worth it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth hurts. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, but I wish it had been any other way. If, indeed, Mrs. Pontón had arranged it, I would be applauding her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u68	Mrs. Otero, you have to go to Mariano Rajoy to justify Pedro Sánchez's action in Alcoa has already said enough. But there is a reality, and I tell you with absolute respect and humility: Mariano Rajoy was evicted from the Government in June 2018, with the tanks in full operation and with all the jobs in force. That's a reality. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you more: when there was a problem -- without going to Falcon; I don't know how you traveled, which I didn't check in first person -- it went to the United States and brought a solution. I don't know if it was a solution or it was a patch, but, in any case, when you dumped it from the Government, this problem didn't exist. And look, I'm telling you more, that the electrointensive statute and its approval, with the allegations that you yourself defended, were a solution to Alcoa's continuity, this group didn't say so, you said. The Galician Nationalist Block said so, and the worker's representative said so. Literality, in the year 2019: "I have hope, not trust, that some kind of agreement can be reached, because, if we have the Electrointensive Statute, the San Cibrao plant has viability. This contrasts with what the chairman of the workers' committee said. [[Mrs. Candia López reads a document.]] Look, let's say it, and at the end, I think we'll have to see it -- I hope sooner than later -- However, politics is to make decisions. If we vote in favour and respect that point 3, which has so much bothered the Nationalist Block of Galicia, it is likely that the tanks will be put into operation by 2024. Now, Alcoa, no, but the jobs dedicated to the manufacture of primary aluminum in the Navy are one of the main concerns. And if they're not all of us, we won't be doing our job right. For the Socialist Party, for the Galician Nationalist Block and, of course, I subscribe and ratify that it is for the People's Party, the continuity of primary aluminium Navy jobs must be a priority, and if they are not, we will again be using people's need, people's uncertainty, for our own benefit. And I'm telling you more, with this pronunciation of the Galician Nationalist Block, one thing remains also evident. You say it's not Alcoa, no, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's wind energy, it's not, because it's bad bad... it's definitely not worth anything at all. I attend several meetings with workers - I don't agree that they say we abandon them, because we attend absolutely all the meetings and all the meetings, absolutely all of them! - It is true that the Socialist Party has stopped attending, but each with its own responsibilities. We have to make decisions right now, and to the workers we have the responsibility to explain it to them. It will be known who is making decisions to comply with that agreement, which, in fact, has the support of the workers, or who, once again, is on the "not for the no", because neither with you nor without you have my evils, which is usually the policy that usually adopts the Nationalist Block Galego. I showed a picture that seems to me to be a picture of the shame, of what Alcoa refers to, and it is the picture of Ana Pontón with Adriana Lastra promising the workers that Pedro Sánchez's support guarantees the continuity of Alcoa. But I don't resist teaching this either. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a photograph.]] I'll never understand how all the mayors of the Socialist Navy Party are going to celebrate the Open Square closing their tanks. I won't understand! [[Applause]] Look, I was at a meeting in Vilalba -- which, by the way, it's good to document where Alcoa's energy is connected and where it connects -- but, in relation to the bridges, which is now also fashionable, I tell you that I had a meeting with workers, when, in an abrupt way, this Ecological "Intransition" Ministry shut down the central.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u70	One of those who attended the meeting taught me his socialist paper, which he was 20 years old, and said to me, "I run in front of Formoso's face, because I didn't understand this decision he put in danger" -- they told us -- "the economic situation, the personal situation." I don't think these mayors will have been able to explain why the minister hasn't been in Alcoa since 2019 to give a solution and answer what they asked... [[Mrs. Candia López shows the photograph again.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u72	...and, on the other hand, if they're to celebrate the closing of the casks to the Obratoiro. Honestly, I tell you with all my affection, a mayor is due to the neighbors, not to a political party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u74	Of course, they have a lot to explain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u75	Thank you. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u76	We begin by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which does not accept. [[Mrs. Carreira Pazos asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Iria Carreira, what do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the point-by-point vote? How many points are there? Which one do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u77	I wanted to separate point 2 and, on the other hand, point 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u78	So let's separate the two. Okay. Let us vote, first, point 2. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to progressively recover the presence in primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 votes against, 60. The result of the vote is negative. This point 2 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u79	We now vote points 1 and 3 of this non-law proposal. Vote of points 1 and 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to progressively recover the presence in primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u80	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. I don't know if you accept the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There seems to be a transaction. Is the transaction possible with all groups? Well, with the Galego Nationalist Block. [[Refusal.]] So, the transaction is to say that the German Parliament urges the Galician Council to immediately put together a plan of shock against labourlessness, counting for this purpose with the IESGA and the Galego Council on Safety and Labour Health. This is the text. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, on the management that must be carried out by the Galician Union in order to develop a plan of shock against labour sinuality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u81	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, defended by Mrs. Compasses Zas. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the measures to be taken by the Italian Government in the face of the increase in cases of curfew-19 in educational centers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u82	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Rivas. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted and point 3 is accepted. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Points 2 and 3 are accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The amendment is from the PSOE and the Block accepts points 2 and 3. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the current situation of the production chain, obtaining and marketing of beef. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u83	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Borja Verea's initiative. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the demand for the Government of Spain by the Council of Galicia to comply with the will expressed by both the Galician Parliament and the Congress of Deputies and extend the programme of support for Xacobeo by extending the tax reliefs until 31 December 2023. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This bill is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u84	And finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, defended by Mrs Elena Candia. About the amendments, Mrs. Candia? Do you accept? Then we vote. [[Refusal.]] [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept Mrs Candia's point-by-point vote? Don't you? [[Refusal.]] So we started the vote again. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and 14 other Members, on the demand from the Galician Union to the Government of Spain for a commitment to ensure the reactivation of the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u85	And now I'm going to read you an institutional statement that brings the groups to me on the annual Memorial Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, and that says: "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, at its 42nd plenary meeting, reaffirmed that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27, 1945, in memory of the liberation by the allied Soviet troops of the Auschwitz-Birkenau extermination camp, as the International Day of Annual Memorial in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among which are also included Greeks and Greeks. The Holocaust is the result of a program of persecution, imprisonment and extermination carried out by Nazism, which killed more than six million people. It was its origin in the attempt to eliminate political and ideological dissident and racism, and it originated in a genocide involving the collaboration of the Frankish dictatorship and which persecuted thousands of men and women who fled the Spanish state after the defeat of the Republic of 1939 and after the establishment of a fascist regime, which caused, according to historical sources, deportation to the labor camps and extermination of 10,000 Spanish Republicans, of which about two hundred were originals of Galicia. Most of them died there or, if they survived, they could never return to their country of origin. For all this, the Galician Parliament echoes the statement by the General Assembly of the United Nations in which it rejected any denial, either partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact. And he condemned unreservedly - he condemns this Parliament as well - all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, wherever they may take place. It calls on the Galician Union to work against possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs or any other circumstance, and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like what the Holocaust has produced can settle between us or anywhere in the world. Thank you very much. Santiago de Compostela, January 25, 2022." [[Approved by consent.]] And now we continue with the agenda, interpellations. Ana Pointon Model Question and Eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the industrial crisis that strikes Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u86	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u87	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. In the nearly thirteen years that Mr. Fexóo has been governing Galicia, we have lost more than twelve thousand jobs in the industrial sector. And although you know the data, Mr. Vice-President, I will repeat it: we have lost 12,000 jobs in the industrial sector - only in the industrial sector! - during the years of the Faixóo government. And many more are at risk, as you know perfectly, many more. From The Navy to Vigo, going through the entire Galician geography, many more industrial jobs are at risk: different activities, different businesses and also different causes and different problems. But in all cases there is a common denominator, in all cases there is a constant: the futility of the Faixóo government to solve any of these crises, none! In all these years, it has never been that the government of Faisóo solves or avoids a business closure; it has already cost us, as it said, 12,000 jobs in the industrial sector and it can cost us a lot more. But there's another constant, at least in the time we've been legislating. Whenever from the BNG Parliamentary Group we bring to the debate some industrial crisis or problem, the vice-president responds that the Union is and will be on the side of the workers and workers. We asked ourselves, Vice President, if you take it frankly that this can reassure someone, given the precedents. We know that another constant, at least for the last three years, has been blaming the entire PSOE government, but it has been ruling nearly thirteen years, and most of them have agreed with the governments of Mr. Rajoy. And over these nearly thirteen years -- I repeat the figure -- we lost more than twelve thousand jobs in Galicia only in the industrial sector. So the blame or responsibility of the Government of Spain for the loss of jobs in the German industrial sector will at least be shared between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. In any case, the state governments report on their policies at the Congress of Deputies and Deputies. Here in the Greek Parliament who has an obligation to render account is the Government of Greece, its actions and also its inaction, its inability or its inactivity. And that's the reason for this questioning, which you explain the continuing loss of jobs and which also explain what they are, what they were, or what the measures the Government of Greece is going to take to correct this trend, this loss curve of industrial activities and jobs that lasts almost thirteen years, and that it seems to be going to be prolonged for some more if governments do not take urgent measures. Real and effective measures, every government within the scope of its competences logically, but what's wrong, what's useless is to point with your finger and do nothing. So, please note your performances, explain them to this chamber, as appropriate, about your government action and don't throw balloons out, as you usually do, because that doesn't help anyone. There are a lot of people, many Welsh and Galician, in the Navy, in the Bridges, in Ferrol, in the Coruña, in Cerceda, in the Coast of Death, in Pontevedra, in Vigo, in Ourense, who come to jeopardize their jobs and have the right to know that they have planned to do the German Government to prevent their job being lost, who have the right to know what the plan of the German Government is. And we are many more, many more and many more, directly or indirectly, affected and affected, people who are not willing to assume the industrial desertification of Galicia. We are a lot of people who know that we are absolutely aware that there is no future without industry, and that we want, that we demand from the Greek Government, our Government, plans and actions decided to defend, promote and consolidate employment and industrial activities in our country, because we have the right to have a future in our country. Tell us why it seems that this country's youth is doomed to choose between precariousness or emigration. Tell us why the German Government refuses to rescue the big industrial enterprises in crisis in our country. Let's explain why the government budgets do not include actions in the areas most affected by the energy transition. Tell us why the Government of Faixóo has been failing its own electoral promise for 13 years to promote a large area of naval repairs in Ferrol. Tell us why the Government of Galicia refuses to link the authorization to install wind farms to which promoters promote or participate in associated industrial projects. Tell us why the Government of Greece refuses to encourage the creation of a public energy company that concentrates all of Galicia's energy assets, to help with industrial impulse and energy transition. Tell us why the Government of Greece allows Xeal to violate the terms of its hydroelectric concessions. Tell us why you dropped Vigo's ship, as if it weren't the German Government's competition. Tell us why the Government of Faixóo assumes the positions of the president of Stellantis, though that implies renouncing the installation of battery or microchips factories in Galicia. Tell us why Galicia follows so far from investments in R & D+i in other countries and territories around us. You have many explanations to give, Mr. Vice-President; more than twelve thousand lost jobs contemplate us and many more are at risk. So, please don't waste your time with interesting reports, with excuses of poor payer and cheap demagoxy, as you usually do. Give us an account of his government action. Pay attention to your obligation to this parliament, to this country that governs and to the society that has given you its trust. It's a lot of the fronts that you have across the country, and a lot of the explanations you have to give. Explain your plans, explain how much your planned investments will rise and when they will be executed. Explain to us that concrete projects are pushing the Government of Faecoo in the Navy, in the Bridges, in Ferrol, in the Coruña or in Vigo. What concrete measures are you pushing the Faixóo Government to save the businesses and jobs at risk? Because it's consolidating the view that this being next to the workers and workers that you repeat continually means only to accompany them to the exit door. There are, by naming some, the cases of Poligal or Isobar, the most recent of Siemens Gamesa and Vestas and, at present, cases such as Alu Iberian or Barreras, where the business alternatives that are handled involve transfer of assets but without guarantees to the staff. Its policy is slow to accompany workers and workers to the door of exit or precariousness, as is the case in the automotive sector and, in particular, in the main business for employment in the industrial sector, Stellantis, where they have been in permanent ERTE for several years, but also, above all, concerned about the continuing precariousness of their jobs. Something that, on the other hand, is people's voice throughout Vigo's territory, but it's also common in other companies in the country where working conditions are no longer the same as before. This is the industrial context, the result of thirteen years of government of Faixóo: twelve thousand jobs less and galloping precariousness of working conditions. And in this context, what does it turn out to be the great measure of the Fascist Government? To eliminate bureaucracy, an euphemism of the People's Party that hides the lack of initiative, the lack of a country project and which also hides only a reduction in deadlines, among others those of public exposure to environmental assessments, even against the directives of the European Union, as has just affected the High Court of Justice. It seems that its solution for everything is to reduce guarantees, whether in the workplace or in the environment, by feeding this false and dangerous dichotomy between economic growth and working conditions, between economic growth and the environment. That's their policy, the policy that results in twelve thousand jobs less, precarious working conditions and environmental deprotection; a suicide policy. You can explain — if you can — about the serious industrial crisis that Galicia is suffering and, above all, about the solutions she intends to push from now on, because she hasn't done it before. Do not persevere in a model that is proving wrong and dangerous. Give explanations, please, and correct. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Fernández — he also welcomed the spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez — and I greatly appreciate the opportunity to speak, indeed, about the economic model that we are building in this country and which is allowing Galicia at this time to be an autonomous community that is growing above the average of Spain, which is responding better than the average of autonomous communities in a context of enormous difficulty. It is true that we differ from the point of departure. We advocate a model of public-private collaboration where autonomy, pemes, large companies are the engine of economic recovery, and you, as you have moved in your intervention, defend the nationalization of companies and therefore an intervention from the public, and hence leaving the private sector without that initiative. Surely there's the point of difference, but logically we're working on a sustainable development of the territory, which will reverse the whole of the country and where industry is that element of differentiation. It is true that it is curious to hear your story. Curious because you and your bankmates disqualify and even refuse, within and outside this parliament, projects, businesses and even entire sectors, as can be the wind sector or the mining sector, without any kind of foundation from the point of view of legal security and from the point of view also of compliance with the regulations. It is also interesting to note that the Galego Nationalist Block says "no" in Galicia but "yes" in Madrid, supporting an opaque and arbitrary distribution of European funds, as it is being demonstrated, of those who remain their government partners, even though they also know that they are invading the powers of this autonomous community. So, despite the story, you can imagine that we are working to give answers and, above all, to respond to the opportunities that in this context of economic transformation can enable us to consolidate these opportunities by small and medium-sized enterprises and, therefore, to recover economic activity. But, Mr. Fernández, it's not reasonable for you to tell me about the risk of jobs. I'd ask you today for explicit support from the Galego Nationalist Block to the workers of Ence. The German Government has transferred a concrete, legal proposal from a legal point of view, from an administrative point of view, so that the jobs of Cence can be saved in Lourizán. I'm asking you for explicit support from the Galician Nationalist Block. I request the explicit support of the Galego Nationalist Block also to the Alcoa workers and which, therefore, the Government modifies the energy frame, the regulatory framework that enables us in Galicia, in Spain, to have an electric price on equal terms that European competitors, which is not happening at this time, because we all know that the statute of electrointensive consumers was a fraud, a fraud of law against the Alcoa workers. I also request the explicit support of the Nationalist Block of Wales for this regulatory reform. I request the explicit support of the Galego Nationalist Block to the workers in the automotive sector, who are seeing how the development of the last thirty years is jeopardizing precisely by at least opaque action and yet we don't know what the consequences of the Government you support. I call for explicit support for the agro-mar-industry complex, with the threat that currently involves the development of the back regulation. And I also ask for support from the workers in Ferrolterra, from the workers in Navantia, from the workers in the auxiliary industry, who are seeing the government constantly failing its commitments. So when you talk about those fifteen thousand jobs at risk, Mr. Fernández, I solemnly ask you to support the Galician Nationalist Block those workers you are not supporting. However, we are trying to get the situation in the country forward, and the first thing you should recognize is precisely the effort that is developing the productive tissue. If you want to see if Galicia is a competitive country, you have to look at macroeconomic data. Go to the data, Mr. Fernández, don't go to the ideology. And the data will tell you that Galicia is the autonomous community that in 2021 is having the largest trading balance in all of Spain, more than 4,500 million euros of surplus. And they would also tell him that Galicia, in November, without counting yet the month of December, has already beaten the absolute record of exports of its entire history, more than 23 billion euros. That means, Mr Fernández, that we have a competitive productive fabric and that it is responding to that economic recovery. We know that it is not enough and that we must therefore continue to work in this context of boosting digitisation towards a more competitive, innovative and sustainable model. And logically for that we have some budgets, the highest in our history, which this year will devote €2.6 billion to boosting the recovery of the Greek economy. Just as we are in the process of approving the 2030 Strategic Plan, which will have as one of the main objectives, precisely, to increase the weight of the industrial sector and also to double the investment of R & D+i. And we also count, despite the fact that the Galego Nationalist Block does not support it, with a normative framework and with an Administrative Simplification Act, which, indeed, Mr Fernández, is trying to respond to the needs of the productive fabric in order to, with all guarantees, develop the projects in time and in time. And, of course, Galicia also has a specific plan for European projects and funds, precisely so that these European funds can be an opportunity. And that's why, today, as I ask you to support the sectors that are going through difficulties, I also ask you to explicitly support the Galician Nationalist Block for the candidacy we are promoting from the Galician Union, along with the private sector, precisely in order to be able to have those opportunities. I ask you to support the Nationalist Block Galego to the textile fibre factory that is being promoted by Others, precisely so that our forest and textile sector can be positioned as a reference in circular economy. I call on the Galician Nationalist Block to support the project of a biofuel plant which will treat seven million tons of interest coming from the stock market and which would be in addition to that commitment to the green economy. I ask you to explicitly support the Galego Nationalist Block in the development of renewable energy, precisely so that Galicia can count on an electric price in our competitive industry and, therefore, not only the development of the wind sector but also the development of new energies, such as green hydrogen. And, of course, I ask you, Mr Fernández, to explicitly support this Auto Anchora project, which would allow Stellantis and the 120 suppliers of the German automotive sector to take advantage of the funds linked to the PERT of the automotive sector. Just as I ask you to support the candidacy that we are forming in the different PERTs, in the agri-food sector, with Anfaco-Cecopesca, Estrella Galicia, Jealsa, Profarm, Cafes Candelas and the rest of the agri-food industries. Or support for the candidacy of the PERT of the aerospace industry, of the naval sector, of the biotechnological PERT, of all the projects we are promoting so that Galicia can have the opportunity to continue to work in that transformative industrial policy that allows the production fabric of the Greek with guarantees to face the transition to a digital economy and a green economy. In short, we have clearly a number of measures and programmes linked to the digitization of small and medium-sized enterprises through a sustainable energy model, innovation and talent, the circular economy, and of course internationalization. Finally, projects that have to allow Galicia to continue to grow, that its exports continue to guarantee that growth of our productive tissue and, therefore, that through the involvement of that public-private collaboration to which it refers, Galicia may continue to grow. And, Mr. Fernández, I believe that now, more than ever, the workers who are in danger with their jobs need that support from parliamentary groups. The Galician Nationalist Block is sadly behind their backs. In any case, you have an opportunity in the replica to see whether or not the Galician Nationalist Block is actually committed to these workers and to that new production model based on digitization and sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] In the reply round you have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Alfonzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as we seem to rule, I suppose I close the debate now. [[Applause]] Mr Vice-President, we would be delighted to support projects by the German Government if they were something real, something concrete, with deadlines, with investments, and not just words. The data, Vice-President, are more than twelve thousand jobs less, precarious working conditions and environmental protection. These are data, they're true data, they're target data. I understand you don't like it, but they're the ones, they're the ones. It is outraged at the level of frivolity and demagogy used by the Government of Greece to talk about a problem as serious as industrial weight loss, so many and so many jobs linked to this strategic sector, more serious and even more outraged by the fact that it occurred in a context of general crisis, in an economic context of great uncertainties, where the level of self-existence, responsibility, anxiety of governments should be maximum. But here you are, as always, accusing, accusing like a little boy who wants to hide or escape his responsibilities. Here it is, as always, keeping against the wind and tides a partisan and absolutely poor, absolutely childish account that at nothing helps to make a thorough and reasonable diagnosis of the situation, to give a constructive debate and that, of course, at nothing helps to build and succeed with projects and solutions. At the BNG we are very aware of the scenario and economic context, of the international context, we are aware of the problems and challenges, as in general the whole of Galician society — certainly with differences — but the concern for today's future is great and shared; just like the opinion, and even the conviction, that it is necessary to act and that governments must play a central role in planning and driving the economy. That's why the failure of the People's and Government's Party to lead the country, that futility manifests to protect our strategic sectors, is causing pessimism and concern for the future of Greek society to be among the highest in the Spanish state. Because you are not only unable to take advantage of the potentialities of Galicia — which we have — of our geostrategic position, of our energy resources, of our human capital, of our consolidated and well-reputed position in sectors that historically endure economic crises and cycles better, but also that they resign in fact, they refuse to work to improve the funding, for example, which is a fundamental and urgent issue, of today, and in which the government of Chiosóo prefers to deal with other territories with which nothing has to do with, giving priority to obedience to President Casado and to the partisan interests of the People's Party over the interests of Galicia — and all the change of some media protagonists in the midst of the Madrid court. You are, in short, a government that deliberately errs and for party interests in diagnosing problems. You're a government incapable of taking advantage of the country's potentials as necessary as they are. And you are a government that refuses to defend the interests of Galicia and tearing off the sub-altern role assigned to us in the economic and financing debates within the framework of the Spanish State. You are, by your own will, a government dedicated to the interests of the village and the court and to the interests of the big corporations. You are, in the current context of profound changes in which Galicia needs uncomplexed leaders, an absolutely useless government for Galicia. Make use of yourself to deny us now on his own. Tell us what your proposals and your projects are to cope with the energy transition. Let us now announce here in parliamentary headquarters what the project of the Government of Greece is to supply electricity at competitive prices to the Welsh industry. He announces that Galicia's energy resources will finally be put at the service of Galicia's industrial development. Finally, Mr Vice-President. Imagine you were Vice President of the German Government. What would he do? Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u92	Thank you, Mr. Alfonzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Fernández, you are indeed still defending the nationalization of companies. We continue to advocate that the investments of Index, Stellantis, Coren, Estrella Galicia, Finsa, Cortizo, Televés, Albo, Benteller — 3.300 million euros of investment before the crisis — are allowing Galicia to actually have a position in the productive fabric at the moment and we can therefore see how, through public-private collaboration and the private sector as a growth engine, Galicia's economy continues to evolve positively. That is surely the main difference between the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Union. From there, it is indeed surprising. You're asking me for something. A project has been promoted since the Galician Union for over a year now that has an investor and is developing a project. What more do you want to support a textile fibre manufacturing project in Galicia? You're just what they're saying permanently is "not Galicia." And the surprising thing is that you, simply by supporting your government partner here in Galicia — in all the municipalities, in all the parliaments, and also supporting it in Madrid — do not want to defend Galicia's interests when talking about European funds. Interestingly, the Galego Nationalist Block for many plenarys claimed that the Bridges could develop an energy research centre. Remember that? Do you know what the government you support, the Socialist Party government? Give Extremadura EUR 57 million, without passing through the sectoral conference, without any kind of competition or transparency in other autonomous communities, so that this investment is developing in Estremadura with European funds Next Generation. Do you support that? Do you support it? Logically, when it comes to defending Galician interests, you keep thinking that Galicia is the Galician Nationalist Block. And Galicia, fortunately, is far more than the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] From then on, Your Honor, we will continue to work and promote the different projects, facilitating administrative processing. At this time, we have declared seven priority business initiatives to support projects by Cortizo, Albo, Oviganic, Sogama, Ignacio González Montes and bioenergys of Lugo and Ourense, which add up to all of them investments about 120 million euros and a commitment to create 432 jobs. These are specific projects that are currently being dealt with with with with with agility precisely because we have an administrative simplification law. And we will continue to offer the various incentives so that the candidacy projects can opt for these European funds and, therefore, they can develop. We're going to continue to work to build a Galicia in a positive way that can share the productive fabric and allow the creation of companies. In 2021, an average of 11 companies were established each day in Galicia, a total of 3,927, which was 23% more than in 2020. In addition, the pre- pandemic figures —3,792 in 2019 — have been exceeded. So, Your Honor, the question now being asked by the autonomous, small and medium-sized enterprises and the Welsh industry is simply why the Nationalist Block of Wales and why the Galician Socialist Party do not listen to them, why they are not demanding with the management that the Government is making of European funds in an inefficient and intransparent way. Surely, if they were to focus on defending the interests of the Greeks, we would all be much better off. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, they're wrong about the enemy. What is jeopardizing the Galician industry at the moment, because of the lack of European funds and a neglected energy policy, is the Government of the State, which you are supporting; a government that continues to support despite this allocation of aid in an arbitrary and discretionary manner to other autonomous communities — including for projects that the Nationalist Block of Wales was defending in this Parliament. It is therefore difficult to understand that they are silent when the government of Pedro Sánchez is taking over the European funds, it is applying these arbitrary criteria and, therefore, it is not allowing Galicia at this time to opt on equal terms, which is what we are asking for, to these European funds. They come to this Parliament defending Galician interests and once again leave that dogmatic and ideological position that they have from the industrial point of view in the defence of jobs and the Galician industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Ana Pontón Mondelo's appeal and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the tendering of the contract of the Sogama incineration plant in Cerceda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u95	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u96	Good morning. Madam Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez, today you are obliged to explain here in this Parliament on the waste policy of the Union and on Sogama contracts. We do this because we think this is a very important issue and also because you have twice examined the commission appearance of the Director General of Environmental Quality just to explain these issues. What do you have to hide, Counselor, what do you hide? Because you're really failing to explain and provide information on all these issues. We have to tell them that something smells like rot in Sogama, circular Sogama, which is the new brand that they recently invented. I call it Sogain, Galaga Society of Incineration. This early marriage that you have, the People's Party's Union, with Naturgy, to do Naturgy business and to pay for the consequences and expenses of the Greeks and the Greeks. At this point we can balance the waste policy of the Union. We also want to do this here in Parliament, because you don't want to show up. And we have to talk about the scrupulous failure of the waste policy of the Union and Sogama, a weak one! And if we had to put a note to this policy, we would have to say it's very poor, Counselor. And we say that in addition to data, with official data, that they are public and that they cannot be distorted and manipulated. The first fact, which is absolutely devastating and conclusive, is that in 2020 you failed to meet the European Union's target for waste recovery and recycling, which had to be 50%. They failed to meet that objective. Do we agree or disagree? You'll say yes, of course, because the data is there. I'll give it to you. But it's not just that we're failing, it's that we're on the tail of the state. We are the fourth community in the queue after...—see what communities!— Ceuta and Melilla and Asturias. The worst in recovery and recycling data. And it's data from the Miteco, Counselor, they're here. This can't be manipulated. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a chart.]] This is official data for the year 2018 that places Galicia in the state queue. Of course, you have to admit that you don't do everything wrong either; there are some things that are real cracks, some phenomena. They're cracks in advertising, in selling smoke, in makeup, in washing green — they're phenomena — and also in lying, in cheating with absolute shame. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that in January 2020, when they opened the bomb and dish that failed composting plant of Areosa, they literally said, "Galiza looks at the target of recycling 50% of waste in 2020." And do you know what the data for 2020 was, Counsellor? Eighteen percent, when we had to meet a 50% target. That is the fact of the scrupulous failure of the People's Party's waste policy. But the data has been published by you. Look: Sogama logo, before it was called "Circular Sogama". [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a leaflet with text and graphics.]] Total waste treated on Sogama plant, approximately 900,000 tons. Do you know how many finalist treatments are going, those that are discredited by the European Union, that is to say burn and dump? About 750,000 tons; 85% goes to these finalist treatments, which have no circulars at all. So Sogama circulates nothing, quite the opposite. Very, very, very poor, Counselor. This is the data, it's data published by you from 2020. 85%, 750,000 tons to burn and send to the dump. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House the leaflet with text and graphics.]] And then you too in that audience said they were going to reach -- as the president of the Union said here -- the zero technical discharge by 2020. But how can they lie, if it's your official data that's here? [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House again the same leaflet with text and graphics.]] 26% goes to the dump, which is more, but, well, we're going to accept the figures you publish. [[Applause]] 26% is that you put it here, or directly or as you refuse, 26%. How can you say zero technical discharge, which is at maximum 10%? You can't lie with that impunity. And by a lot of windowsilling, by a lot of makeup and propaganda... Madam Counsellor, by the way, I remind you that we asked for Article 9 a year ago — they respect the rights of Members and Members — Sogama's advertising and advertising contracts. We're waiting a year later. If you find yourself one of these days with Mr Domínguez, the President of Sogama, tell you that you should send Parliament the documentation we asked for a year ago from Sogama contracts. It won't be so hard! The contracts Sogama has with the media for advertising and propaganda. Do you have any problem sending Parliament that documentation, Counsellor? Anyway, mostly washed green, for a lot of makeup, Galicia is on the tail of the state. You do not — we have told you a thousand times — the European Waste Directive, the Pemar, the State Waste Framework Plan, does not comply with Galicia's own Urban Waste Management Plan. By the way, I remind you that this year is over, and you should be already in the process of evaluation and you should be in the drafting phase of the new plan. How is this question, Counselor?, what stage is it? Because then you're doing what you're doing is looking for shortcuts irregularly. Instead of making a new plan, instead of modifying it, they approve a Welsh bioresidue strategy — not lost — in a completely irregular way. Because this had to be processed as a plan or action program and therefore subject to environmental assessment, because it includes numerous infrastructures and changes the waste treatment system in Galicia. When you plan on handling this, send it to Parliament? Because for now what we know of this strategy is this: a power point. This is the Galician power, People's Party. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House some sheets.]] Twelve pages of propaganda when Parliament has to be sent the documentation, Counsellor. [[Applause]] What do you have to hide? Why don't you send this plan to Parliament? Why don't you treat him like a plan? Why do not environmental assessment include three composting plants and thirteen transfer plants among other actions? Does it not seem normal to send this to Parliament? Anyway! And what you're doing is you're running away from the future, mortgageting on the future, because you've just awarded 238 million euros a new contract from Sogama's incineration plant. I'll talk about this later because now it doesn't give me time, but here are many shadows and many suspicions in the procedure and at the bottom of this adjudication. There are many shadows and many suspicions of how things were done. Then I'll give you more information about it. Because we're also going to an absolute monopoly of a company or group of companies, Valtalia Copasa, of absolutely all the contracts that have to do with Sogama, i.e., incineration plant, classification plant, composting plant, Areosa dump, Areosa debugger, transfer plant contracts, transport contracts... all in the Valtalia Copasa business group, which is completely completing all the contracts. Is that how you defend competition in the sector? Why were only two companies filed in a contract that had a bid of 250 million euros, Counselor? Doesn't that sound weird to you? Then I'll give you more clarification on that. I'm going to end up on these shadows and on these suspicions. Who will burn Sogama when he ceases to go there a good part of the organic matter allegedly treated by other procedures that are mandatory?, that he will burn there, Counsellor? They don't come out of account if they stop going there 300,000 tons of waste of organic matter that they don't have to go to Sogama. What are they gonna burn there? What are they going to use as fuel? Are the plastics going to be used as fuel? Why on this Valtalia plant, from the Valtalia group, from Sogapol, adjudicator of the last Sogama incineration contract, just a few metres from Sogama, are here these thousands of tons of plastics imported from all over Spain?, where are they going? [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a photograph.]] By the way, installations that suspectly burn every two by three, I don't know what's going on with this. [[Applause]] And I'm done, aside from asking him questions, asking him proposals, and then I'll extend them more if I can on the second shift: The first is to propose here a minimum residue agreement in Galicia; an agreement that can be summarized in a sentence: one country, several systems. We will accept — look to where we have reached — coexistence, complementarity between Sogama, Lousam, Nostián, The Morrazo, Revitaliza and other alternative systems, from loyalty, from complementarity and from cooperation, but you do as if they did not exist and try to put down the other alternatives. The second is to really develop the Bioresidue Strategy, as we told you here, with that processing as it has to be, through the book.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u98	And, finally -- finished -- I'm going to propose something else -- a visit to Sogama. A visit to Sogama from the political groups of the 2nd Commission, of the Fegamp, also if they have it for good, if they want to participate in this visit; a visit without trapping or cardboard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u100	...with no time limit, visiting all installations: the classification plant, the incineration plant, the sink, the debugger, the composting plant, which then I'll also give you details about how it works, how it doesn't work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u101	Then you have another round, Mr. Bará. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u102	...—yes—and the dump of Areosa, and also with the representation of all the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u104	Do you accept this proposal, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u105	Thank you very much. (One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr Bará, we started the year 2022 as we finished the previous one, talking about waste management, just with a difference: we took positive steps and you just like twenty years ago or like twenty-two years ago, defending one and a thousand times Sogama and also its system. I think we should change the strategy. And besides, on a day like today, a day like today where we celebrate the Environmental Education Day. Environmental Education Day in which Sogama participates and collaborates with many schools in Galicia, with many associations in Galicia, which we also do from the German Government and from the corresponding general direction, but which we could also do from the various parliamentary groups, which we are paid for for. But to be serious, don't suddenly drop four numbers, which you don't care, without any kind of comparison to just have a headline. Mr. Bará, two decades ago, in four years, where you've been ruling, where you haven't done anything for Sogama, and when they've been engaged and ruled, there's been things you've thrown away. But if I look at the data, the only thing you didn't do in Sogama when you ruled with PSOE was management. And I can talk to them about that, too. But when I said this, it seems to you a lot of things bother you, and I invite your group, instead of trying to defend, instead of sowing doubts about procedures or contests, on a proposal: make the complaint where you have to do it, it's the best you can do for Galicia and the best you can do for Sogama as well. If I had to define Sogama, I would tell you before and now, before in my time of mayorship, now as an advisor I have the powers: it is a key model for Galicia and the municipalities, since 94.2% of the municipalities, Mr Bará, receive Sogama's services. And I say that for something it will be! He renders that fundamental service to citizenship through the sustainable management of trash. It's a model that also contains an environmental complex where you actually remember the different plants you have and how you've been progressing, a total of 65 hectares in extension, linked to that network of thirty-seven transfer plants, strategically distributed across the territory. And you launched, in addition, that invitation of whether I was ready for you to visit Galicia — Galicia no, Galicia also have to visit it, get out of Parliament a little more, go visit Sogama. Of course, it's not the first time we've invited them. But you don't realize that a headline comes here and then you don't even spend half an hour on that visit to Sogama? He says that as well he's able to say that we see that the CEO is coming. But hasn't the president of Sogama seen him recently, Mr Bará? Are you kidding me? You don't need Sogama's president, which is what you want to defend. Of course, it does not serve the policy of bioresidues, the Bioresidue Strategy, which was adopted at the Council of Galicia, which is 60 million euros, which was also coordinated with the municipalities, which was coordinated with the Fegamp. But it's just that it bothers you that Galicia goes well from the point of view of waste management. Having said this, I have to tell you that there have been many advances, of course. Since 2018, the non-hazardous waste dump has been sealed, and today 90 percent of that dump is re-executed. Budgets included EUR 8.2 million for this to be possible. In fact, there is a large human team in Sogama, five direct positions, five indirect jobs. And I can't afford you here to put those people in an interview, from pawn to engineer, which makes it possible for Sogama to open the 300 and sixty-five days of the year. Besides, it's the ones who write those pleas that then come out of the auction. By the way, the last bidding you're referring to, the one that tells you that there are many shadows and very few lights, there was no recourse, Mr Bará, on the part of any company. Mr. Bará, how is it possible that you come here to question the contests, the prayers that the professionals write, and the prayers that are then supervised by the Council of Auditors? But it's the same thing for you, and still above all it aims to defend the Greek companies. What's the matter, I'm hurting you with the Greek companies? Would you rather I won that contest any other company? They win the competition for those who bet on Galicia, they do a good job and, in addition, they refuse and therefore meet from a technical point of view. Having said this, I'd talk to you about the bids, how this bid was made and how the nails are drafted. Look: the objectives pursued in this competition are, on the one hand, prevention, re-use, recycling, and also in all competitions, from the first to the last, and they are those also established by European legislation, by the principles of circular economy, and it still bothers you that Sogama is called "circular", and I don't know why, and with a hierarchy, the hierarchy of waste, which is prevention, which is the reduction and which is continuing, taking steps towards recycling, and, of course, ultimately, going to the dump our waste. And here I can assume rigour, rigor in the adjudications. Why? Firstly, because they are governed by the Public Sector Contracts Act, following a pure, transparent procedure supervised by different entities. In all cases, the evaluation of offers is carried out by a technical team with specific training, solvent and, above all, with experience; the one who has neither you nor could have me, could not be there, Mr Bará. So under no concept do I allow you here to question the staff you work for. Moreover, tenderers who disagree may appeal against these adjudications, something which has not happened. And if it happened sometimes, and not in this competition, I tell you that both the Galician Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement and the Galician High Court of Justice have always given the reason to Sogama. And it is no coincidence that this has been the case for twenty-two years, since the proceedings are unquestionable, Mr. Bará. Having said this, it is surprising that for the BNG there is a problem that the adjudicatorships of some contracts are Welsh companies that generate jobs in Galicia. And not only do they win competitions in our community — it would just be missing! — is they win them at national level and win them at international level. What you don't seem to know is that the companies that present to this type of competition are very specialized. So it's not the same as making a road, where there's more staff, where the bidding is taken off, a contest, and maybe ten or twenty. Not here. You go to Madrid for the last competitions. Work, Mr Bará, a little bit in the year 2022. Madrid, last bid on this issue: EUR 145 million, four companies presented. Valladolid, 117 million euros, four companies. Asturias — we have it next door — EUR 64 million, three companies. Albacete, 56 million euros, four companies. Tenerife, EUR 715 million, three companies. Why? Because they're very specialized companies. Having said this, maximum transparency about the contract to which you refer in your question. I want to make it clear that the valuation in this energy case of the non-recyclable part contained in the waste mass has been lawful. A procedure which is carried out with all environmental guarantees. On the other hand, the requirements of conditions are drawn up by a technical team. And this can be added — and I have repeated it once again to make it clear — that there was no resource. When was it published and when was it made public? July 19, 2021. The companies were two months old. In those two months, the two companies that went to UTE, and therefore they were several companies, went through the facilities, without time, Mr. Bará; just like when you have to go visit Sogama, we've already invited him several times and there's no way you're going. It's a lot better sitting there than going to Sogama. Because, of course, there's the explanations and then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u107	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u108	...we're going to be fatal. From there on, of course, you have to tell him he helped, and I have to tell him how much. It is EUR 238 million to manage these plants in the environmental complex for ten years. It was made for an UTE, too, to make it very clear, because there's nothing to hide. The UTE is the Galician Society of Polymers, S.A., Setec Building, S.L.U., Espina Works Hydraulics, S.A. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u109	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Bará Torres has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u110	Counsellor, you say today is Environmental Education Day. They could talk about environmental education, for example, to the Galician Council of Culture or the Galician High Court of Justice, who have just issued reports and judgements that are devastating and powerful in the face of the environmental predation that is taking place at the People's Party Council. You had to do a lot of environmental education and environmental policy to avoid these balconies that just gave you these two institutions. And you say with utter contempt that we've seen here bring four data; that's what you call the official documentation of the Mitech and the Galician Union itself. Because I brought here reports and documentation and data from the Galician Union. These are four data? [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a document.]] Sogama's four data will be, what happens is that this data will put down all the propaganda and all that green smoke from the People's Party, and they don't like it, of course. But it is very clear here: 750,000 tonnes, 85% of Galician waste treated by Sogama; 525,000 tonnes will be burned or 228,000 tonnes will be disposed of. This is indisputable, it's not four data, Counselor. [[Applause]] Greek bioresidue strategy. You actually said you approved it by the board of directors, but we don't have any documents of that strategy, and you didn't consult the councils, nor did you consult the Fegamp. You guys did what they did was to convene an informational agenda for the Town Councils and present this power point to them. This is the only thing that exists known about that plan. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House some sheets.]] And I'm telling you, they're illegally processing it, irregularly, it's a plan, it's a project that has to be submitted to a procedure, including environmental assessment, because there's a law that says all plans and programs have to submit to environmental assessment, and more when they have this set of facilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, he has no feet or heads. First, because composting plants, each one has its own technology, are outdated technologies. And there we have Areosa's data, which they don't lie, is a real fiasco, because it's been working for two years, and it's been planned to collect 15,000 tons and not even 1,000 tons. It's just that, of course, you only got your three municipalities to carry their waste there, because Artexo's doesn't even fit to take you there, they didn't accept it. The only thing that's taking 400 tons is Carballo, the only one. Yes, Laracha takes a little bit and Cerceda almost nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know what's going on? They don't get compost out of there; they don't get anything, no certificates or nothing. You're what they do is buy the compost to take a picture of them literally. We believed it because we went there. [[Murmurs.]] We have information about the truckers and people who went there, and they say there's no compost. And you to take the paripé, to take a picture, they bought the compost and gave them a little bit to the municipalities. It's a real mess, it's a fiasco. It looks like comical cinema, but it's like that, which is what, Counselor. And you do a strategy with a set of facilities and you ignore that there is already the Deputy of Pontevedra, which makes a big bioresidue plan, which is believed throughout Europe as the superpolitics of the waste to be followed, by consulting organisations in the European Union. And it doesn't matter, they do a waste strategy and they exclude the municipalities that are on the Lousam plant, the Revitaliza Town Councils... No, you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, no, no, no, you. Look: instead of attacking those who do things differently, as you do, in that harassment and fall they try against Lousame, if they did the things they had to do, we'd better go to this country, Counsellor. Of course, you're going with the autopilot. So what they decided is to move forward and mortgage the future for ten years with this €238 million contract. It's a mortgage for the future because it's changing regulations, it's changing waste management. And you go with the usual, with the politics of the past, with the policy of the plutocene of waste. Pretending that there's to be burned, that they're gonna burn there? I asked him a question and he didn't tell me, he didn't answer me. Because if the bioresidues don't go, what's going to burn there? He can't feed that monster. I ask you again: will they burn plastics there transferred from all over the state, collected by Sogapol, which has them there next door, which is one of the adjudicate companies of the incineration plant contract, will they burn that plastic or will burn one day by chance, as two plants have already burned this company? Didn't they stop thinking about what happened with those "accidents," fires on those plants? I want you to answer this, Counselor. And I want you to tell me if you're willing to arrange a joint visit to Commission 2nd with all the political groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u112	...in this trimester, you can visit all Sogama plants without time limits, and you can interview us with the business committees of all these plants. Do you accept the proposal? Do you agree to come to this minimum agreement that I offered you here to be able to move forward towards other waste policies or, at least, to complement the different alternatives in the country and not attack them, as you do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u114	These proposals remain on the table. These proposals are on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u116	We hope they take them into account...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u117	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u118	...and that we can really move forward towards another waste model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u120	...and towards another bioresidue model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u121	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u122	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, I repeat to you once again: you were invited, you are still invited and, of course, you are a company and you are invited to go to a certain number of people who will be with the technicians and who will be explained by first hand as if you explained to all the senators of the different political groups who were before Christmas, to the French who will come to learn from the Sogama plant. The one you've defended so much. [[Applause]] Data: Over the last five years in Sogama, recycling has increased by 43%. I'm not giving you the data from Lousame or Nostián, here we're trying to help them. We do not rule out anything, Mr Bará, who rejects us is the central government, from which you are partners. By the way, speaking of partners, I suppose you will know that you are following the Waste Law before you are forcing that before June 30, the Greek municipalities of more than five thousand inhabitants have to have the fifth container; that which says you don't like it either and that it was not evaluated by you, was only evaluated by the different representatives in the Fegamp and therefore by the different municipalities. Having said this, stop talking about burning and talk about valuing. I used to tell him: visit Galicia, visit Sogama and visit Europe. I was invited by the embassy, and also because Galician data are good, and also because they put us as a picture of what to do, I was in Copenhagen, specifically knowing Copenhagen. It's worth it, it's another Sogama, but it's in the same city. Yes, Mr. Bará! And I give you more data: countries like Sweden, Denmark and Finland, not counting Norway, not being an effective member of the European Union, were in 2019 at 47% and 56% of energy recovery; that's what you still call incinerating. And the European average is 28%. That's the reality. Technical level zero. Indeed, we are going to do so before the ten years set by the European Union. How can you tell me that you don't? Do you want me to give you data from when you were ruling? He certainly didn't do it in any way. It didn't work because in 2008, do you know how much you sent to the dump? A total of 413,378 tons. Do you know how far it goes to the dump? About 5,463 tonnes, 98,7 % less. That's Galician reality. And we're still talking about plants like Sogama's, which they've defended so much. There are four hundred and ninety-two plants in Europe, twelve of them are in Spain. In Galicia we have one; in France, one hundred twenty-one; in Germany, ninety-six; in Italy, thirty-eight; thirty-seven in Sweden; and twenty-six in Denmark, eighteen in Norway. Environmental education, that's what we propose, environmental education and progress, not trying to defend. Management of bioresidues, and you have doubts. I don't know what I doubt. In Galicia we have four composting plants. In fact, one is in Cerceda, and the waste is treated when the municipalities send the waste. And the municipalities have an obligation under our law, the Waste Law, to take them before 1 January 2024. According to the law that you support the central government it has to be this same year. We're gonna have complicated it. And together with this, they're going to be supported by 13 transfer plants, which will have a specific towel for organic matter. Investment? About 38.6 million euros. These plants, of course, will be equipped with the most innovative technologies, with which you can develop a high-quality composite, the certificate, not to value. And certificate means that it can be used in agriculture and also in gardening. That one is certified and that goes from the municipalities, for example, from Carballo, also from the Laracha. And you were talking about Artexo. And do you know why he's not from Artexo? Because if you're doing environmental education with citizenship, because you have to start from below, from below to above, so you can deal with it later. But I have, who comes from here, to praise the work that is doing the Town Hall of Art, more than intense so that this may be possible. So if you have any doubts about the Bioresidue Plan, I'm telling you to call any of the municipalities, because they sure won't have it. What we're doing is helping them, helping them to have containers, and they opt for composting, they have individual composters, and they opt for the community, of course, that they have community composting, they have also biotriturizers, but also for them to have clean moving points or green points in case they don't have them. That's what the German Government is doing right now. Sogama, the Sogama definition, for me: an exemplary public company that meets all environmental requirements, with strict prevention and management measures, with the Public Sector Contracts Act, with labour risk prevention legislation. They like us or not, they like you or not, this is the model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u123	You have to finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u124	...for which Galicia chose. In addition, innovating, constantly innovating, and recognizing, for example, recognition of the year 2021, Sogama was awarded at the European Business Awards Paris, in the Environmental Commitment category. In 2021, Ardán again distinguished her as a business concerning the economy,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u125	You have to finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u126	...by awarding him the diplomas of a circular company or company on an equal basis. And so I could tell you more than twenty recognitions at the Greek level, at the national and international level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u127	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u128	We are now making a change to the agenda. We move on to point 6 of questions to the Government. Question by Maria Begoña Freire Vázquez and six other G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of the preliminary draft of the future housing law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u129	To put the question, Mrs. Freire Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u130	Thank you, President. First of all, to apologize again to the House for this still-persistent affinity. Good morning, Counselor. After many months of advertising in the media, on October 26, the Council of Ministers of the Government of Spain took into consideration the draft housing law, which was initiated by the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for the processing of the text. From the People's Parliamentary Group we see with concern that the preliminary draft of the future housing law began without consensus or prior consultation with the various autonomous communities, and specifically with Galicia. The text was neither discussed nor discussed at the corresponding Sectoral Conference on Housing, which would be itself, and in view of the fact that it is the autonomous communities which have the competences in the field of housing and which must manage the proposed measures. We know that the draft state housing law was nothing other than currency of exchange to obtain support for the state's general budgets, a PSOE-Podemos agreement, with the sole objective of keeping Pedro Sánchez' Government a little more standing. It is regrettable that the state ends up legislating, not to solve the problems and needs of citizens, but to keep Pedro Sánchez in office. After a first analysis of the text it is discovered that such important issues as the occupation of dwellings, the tense areas, the limitation of the rent price, the concept of empty housing, with a 150 per cent charge in the IBI, or even the invasion of autonomous competences. The sector and experts warn of its possible opposite effect, that the law will restrict the supply of housing and will lead to an increase in the rental price, in addition to the serious attack on legal security, which is clearly being affected by continuous legislative changes. And this was not said from this parliamentary group, but from the different experts and analysts. Since the German Government it has been warned on several occasions of the invasion of the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia as regards housing, which has been denied by the Central Government. Just over a week ago, the plenary session of the General Council of the Judiciary closed the report that validated the Preview of the Housing Law, which the Central Government had planned to approve last January 18th. The constitutional body, in a report, reminded the Government that housing is a matter of autonomy and affects the executive who invades the competences of the autonomous communities. As it cannot be otherwise, the German Government is concerned and alert to the clear invasion of competences and the impact of this new law which the State Government intends to adopt by the back door. For this reason, we want to ask you: what does the first assessment of the Government of Greece make before the preliminary draft of the future housing law? For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Freire. To answer the question, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councilwoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u132	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Freire, indeed, since the Council of the Environment, Territory and Housing Council, we are very concerned about the drift that the central government is taking into housing policies, making decisions that directly affect autonomous communities, not at all counting on autonomous communities and going over the competences; competences that come to us under the Constitution but also by the Statute of autonomy and that are clear. They are very clear signs of betting from the Government of Pedro Sánchez and its partners for a totally centralist state, invading the autonomy that we have in our autonomous communities. Of course an example of this is this draft housing law. It's a text that regulates matters that belong to the autonomous communities, doesn't take into account the different realities of the different territories, it contains a lot of indeterminations, a lot of lack of concretion. In fact, many of the measures proposed reflect an absolute ignorance of reality in our case, of Galician reality, and are contrary to public policies that are being carried out in Galicia through the social pact for housing. But this doesn't just tell the Galician Council, it doesn't tell the Councillor that he has the powers, it also gives the General Council of the Judiciary a demolition report, which has made the Government retreat for now, but which gives the impression that it gives him the same. It would be the first time that this harmony would be broken, but that it would shoot forward. This ruling by the General Council of the Judiciary gives once again the reason for the Board's decision, since it considers that the future rule as drafted invades our competences, the exclusive powers we have in the field of housing. These are some skills that Galicia has attributed to the rest. In addition, they intend to control what is protected housing, public housing and each autonomous community, through other aspects, such as what is referred to in the general municipal management plans the land intended for residential, or the establishment of those areas considered tense, or the limitation of monthly rent. Something that's very inconcrete, where you don't know very well if at the end we'd be autonomous communities, if they were municipalities... actually, in Galicia we can say that as drafted there would be no tension. But, in addition, since June, we also refuse that through the new law the illegal occupation of immovables is admitted as a form of affection, because that's what is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u133	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Freire Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u134	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counsellor, for your reply and for your roundabout defending the interests of Galicia and the Greeks and Greeks in front of a central government, which during the pandemic this country suffered it refused to exercise its powers, now seeks to invade powers which do not correspond to it by the state housing law. But the question of renouncing the competences and problems on the part of the Central Government seems to have become a custom. Over the past few months, Sareb has been producing a form of action with the intention not to extend or solve leases for families living in buildings of society. We know that by the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil and the Council are in contact with those affected, and Sareb was required to know what obeys that way. And thanks to the mediation of the Galician Union, a commitment has been made to society to analyze the circumstances of families that inhabit these homes and to grant social rent contracts to vulnerable situations. Thus, the Greek Government is what is intervening in front of Sareb to facilitate the residence of the holders who currently occupy them, despite the fact that the Central Government is what has the true capacity and responsibility to intervene in decision-making and in the way the entity acts, by hosting the majority shareholder status through the FROB, and is missing. Of course, from this parliamentary group we see with concern not only how Sareb acts, but also the lack of intervention by the central government, which keeps its arms crossed in a matter of capital which it is appropriate to address. We would like, Counselor, to be able to inform us about this matter that so uncertainly creates and worries hundreds of Greek families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Freire. For the reply you have the word of the Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u136	Thank you, President. I, Mrs. Freire, would define the text as a whim of Podemos, agreed by the PSOE. That's the reality of this draft law, there's no other. Until now Mr. Abalos seems to have stopped him, but now he's gone and therefore wants to continue with this line. We, of course, call for the withdrawal of the text from the future housing law, unconstitutionally, firstly, and apart from that, because it is going to imply a genuine paralysis of the real estate sector, in a special way of protected public promotion. This is a law that's not good for anyone; it's not good for autonomous communities, it's not good for promoters, it's not good for housing owners and it's worse for those who want access to a housing, except for those who do illegal occupation. It's for the only ones who are good at this law. On the other hand, it's true that the law says one thing and the central government is doing another, and Sareb is central government. So, we've been watching ongoing Sareb defiances over the past few months. That's how we made it known to the minister last week, both the president of the board and myself. She said she wasn't aware of this situation, which is very worrisome not to know. They made him know all the data by letter, and from there we expect them to react. We hope that they will react but not in the way they have done so far, because what they have done so far — they say the various media, because since we do not have a sectoral conference we do not know what will belong to us, nor how they are doing the distribution—for example, it is giving Catalonia 10 million euros to buy Sareb housing; something that is not being done with Galicia or other autonomous communities. This has been denied by the minister, but it's in the media and, of course, if it continues to come out in the media it will be for something, right? So, I think there's only one concern right now, and the concern is not about citizenship, but the concern is about keeping Mr. Sánchez in government. He is therefore concerned about the reaction of his partners in this area. They're also concerned about the housing plan. The Housing Plan is co-financed by autonomous communities. And it looks like the housing plan here is that they give us the money and that's it. Well, we found out about the BOE, but we don't have any agreements signed, we can't remove the corresponding bases, and then there'll be anyone who tells us we're doing the wrong thing. It's impossible to run if we don't start with that execution. A housing plan that, in addition, has always been consensual to the autonomous communities, and now we don't know what it's going to do. So, we wait, and so we claim, a Sectoral Conference, to know what belongs to us, because today I don't know what belongs to us, either to the Housing Plan, or to that plan that bomb and dish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u137	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u138	...have been announcing that Thursdays can be emancipated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u139	Thank you, Counselor. Let's get back to the fourth point. Interpellation by D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece regarding the advertising of statistical data
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u140	Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor to defend the interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u141	Thank you, Madam President. This inquiry is motivated by the concern that even despite the great opacity in terms of the Galician Union contracts, if we contrast the latest aggregated data of autonomic recruitment published by the Union itself, which are 2018, with the data of the State Administrative Contract Advisory Board, it turns out that the Galician Union is the most autonomous administration that resorts to direct recruitment in Spain, because it affects more than four out of every ten euros a finger, with minor contracts without advertising, or competition. And the minor contract is with great difference the main recruitment figure of our autonomic administration, although it is a mode of recruitment designed to be exceptional; that is, in June, what should be exceptional becomes the norm. And I can add that the publicity given to these contracts is totally and absolutely insufficient, in addition to being expressly designed to make their analysis difficult. And if the smaller contracts, representing 41.3% of the total, we add the negotiated procedures, which represent 6%, it turns out that almost half of the contracts in the Union are given their finger; in particular, 47% of the contracts in the Union give their finger according to their own data. And do you know what is one of the things that distinguish democracy from non-democratic countries? Transparency. If there was transparency in Russia these days, we wouldn't be paying attention to the possibility of a war in Ukraine, which could involve Europe as a whole, because Russia would be a democracy, and we know that democracies don't make wars between themselves, but they tend to solve their problems peacefully. Do you know anything else that distinguishes democracies from non-democratic countries? For the observance of the law and the special subjection of public administrations to that compliance, which is called the "principle of legality." It means that administration works on the basis of law and not on the political whim of the shift politician or the shift manager. And in these two fundamental democratic subjects: the subject of transparency and the subject of compliance with the laws, you get -- I have to say it -- very bad notice and, therefore, lower the quality of our democracy, worsen our democracy, and save the distances that follow the way of Vladimir Putin of the world, at least in this matter. In the case that we are dealing with in this interpellation, an administration, the most important of Galicia, such as Junta, which is legally bound to something so basic, as elementary as to publish the data of contracts that it holds, systematically fails to comply with that legal obligation by breaking with the principles of transparency and legality, which are fundamental pillars of our democracy. Because Article 8 of Law 19/2012, of 9 December, of transparency in access to public information and good government, states that "statistical data on the percentage in budgetary volume of contracts awarded through each of the procedures provided for in the legislation on public sector contracts shall be published". He doesn't say: "may publish" or "may not publish," he says, "should be published." And surprisingly, despite what this law has with meridian clarity, on the Transparency website of the Galician Union, this data appears until 2018, but today, January 26, 2022, it does not contain those corresponding to the years 2019 and 2020; a delay that is not timely, but repeats it year after year and in a systematic manner. Transparency over time expires; there is no transparency if the data is not published in an appropriate time and form. That's about publishing the statistical data on public contracts isn't a little bit smaller or baladi. Knowing the data on public contracts allows us, for example, to know that Mr Baltar is judging by 80% of these contracts, by chance almost always to companies linked to the People's Party. Just like giving the finger more than 80 percent of the grants, by chance too, almost always to the Town Councils of the People's Party. And this does not make it clear to this honourable Member but a demolitioner report by the Galician Board of Auditors, which we know in the middle of last year and which reveals data showing a level of discretion in the allocation of public resources which may be normal in Russia, but which is absolutely inappropriate for a Spanish public administration in the 21st century. It is, of course, very different from Spain's parliamentary office, which is more public resources that affect the finger, with huge difference. And this analysis of the procurement data that the Board of Auditors makes allows any reasonable person, by the way, to infer that in the U.S. Deputies if he is producing a systematic looting of public resources, in a province like Ourense's, which requires a lot of those resources. And I mention this because to find out what's going on in the board, if it follows the same star of the House of Ourense, with which you share political party or not, we need to make public the contract data of our autonomic administration. It doesn't do the Union because today we know what happened in 2018 but we're in 2022. And criticising what happened in 2018, three years later, it loses much of its meaning and meaning because we are already in another legislation. The analysis of public issues, in order to be serious and rigorous, must occur on time and not with a delay of years. There's no transparency when the data is published with years of delay as you do. And when I asked Junta on 30/6/2021, i.e., about eight months, which is why it was delayed for years to publish certain legally binding information, among which we are talking about contracts, I was told by the coronavirus. But that was eight months ago, and we continued the same and it rained on wet. You are incapable of publishing data that are very important for democratic control of your government and that should be published in real time if the Welsh Autonomic Administration works with a minimum of efficiency and transparency, a minimum!, not much or even a minimum!, in real time; not three years later in the best of cases. But you are delighted with this administration unable to comply with the Transparency Law in such basic and simple aspects to manage as this one of what we're talking about today. Because it should be easy to compile the contract data from each board, add them and put them on the transparency page! Collecting and publishing Union contract data is not how to achieve nuclear fusion. Collecting and publishing Union contract data is not like discovering penicillin or inventing the wheel or bulb. Collecting and publishing Union contract data is just a matter of political will. And if they don't, it's because they don't want anyone to analyze what they do with public money. You won't want to know what they're doing with public money. And that'll be the explanation of your delay, because another doesn't happen to me. But — as I have said — by analysing the 2018 data, we can know that 47,5% of the amount of the Union contracts was given to the finger, because they were minor or negotiated, i.e. without competition, without real competition. So there are 47% of the joint contracts that are a priori a potentially conducive territory for corruption, which opens the door to favor friends to the detriment of the general interest. In December of the year that we have just finished, we proposed in the plenary of this House a plan to improve and modernise our autonomous administration, based on at least eight axes, including the issue of transparency, the question of public procurement. And you voted that no, showing that you don't want to improve or modernize a strongly needed administration of that improvement and modernization. And last week, without going any further, the PP voted not in the Commission 1st to design a public management control plan for autonomous public policies, endowed with the corresponding means, which continuously assesses its effectiveness and efficiency to optimize the use of public resources. Therefore, within one month, Galician PP voted twice against improving the Government of Galicia, which is not even able to publish the data of the contracts it pays with the money of the entire citizenship of Galicia. And I have to say once again that, according to the European Quality of Government Index drawn up by the University of Gothenburg, funded by the European Commission, Galicia is the 10th Community among the 17th state government quality, well below the state average, which implies an urgent need for a better administration which too often hinders rather than dynamize. If we talk strictly about transparency, in the last ranking that was set between the autonomous communities by Transparency International we were the Community thirteen out of the seventeen analyzed. So we need to improve. To finish, you can explain to this camera why we've been late for three years in publishing the Junta recruitment statistical data and tell us when that data will be published, especially when — as I tell you — the last published ones, which are 2018, show that Junta is Spain's most contracted finger administration. Can you tell us what the budget volume data is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u142	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u143	...—Finished, Your Honor—and by type of contract in 2019 and 2020? I didn't even ask for 2021, which would be normal in any efficient administration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Corgos López-Prado has the floor to answer this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u145	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Arunguena, for your question, even though the comparisons you have used in particular with Mr. Putin are hateful and closer to your intellectual positions. You're asking me about the government's policy in terms of publishing and reporting on contracts. In this regard, I would like to clarify several aspects: The first is that we have a recruitment platform where every citizen can consult all kinds of information and data about each of these processes. Among these data we can find the number of contracts, types of contracts, procurement procedures, bid amounts, adjudication amounts, contract reports, contract evaluation reports, contract extensions reports, supplementary contracts, etc. How you can appreciate an infinity of public procurement data open to any citizen. Because we are committed to transparency, we are committed to accountability and service to citizens, so by 2020, despite the conditions of the pandemic, we are beginning to plan the work and documents that mark the roadmap of the entire legislation. This process began in January with Decree No. 11/2021, which establishes the competence structure of the Conseilería de Aschanda e Funeral Pública, residing in the General Directorate for Evaluation and Administrative Reform all competences in matters of recruitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u146	Mr. Corgos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u147	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u148	A little bit of the microphone that doesn't sound good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u149	Is that better? Yes. He said that this process will start in January with Decree No. 11/2021, which sets out the competence structure of the Conseilerie d'affaires de affaira e Administración, residing in the General Directorate for Evaluation and Administrative Reform all the competences in the field of evaluation, which so far resided in the General Technical Secretariat and in the Heritage of the same board. Among the planning documents we have already put forward in this legislation, we can find a twenty-two measure to include in the IV Open Government Plan of the General Government of the State: Participation at the end of 2020 in the preparation of the work that led to the trade union agreement on teleworking published on 7 January 2021. The adoption on 4 March last year of the General Management Plan for the Quality of Services of the Autonomic Public Sector for the period 2021-2023. This is a planning document that lays down sixty-four actions grouped into twenty-seven measures that are framed into ten quality improvement axes and the services that the Galician Union provides. We also approved at the Council of 29 April the Programme for the Management of Institutions of the Autonomic Public Sector for the period 2021-2023. And a month later, on May 26, 2021, we did the same with the Framework Programme for Institutional Integrity and Risk Prevention of Management for the period 2021-2024. With regard to the joint work of the Board of Auditors, which can be reflected in its report "Diagnosis of Internal Control Systems, Risk Prevention Strategy", of December 2019, it includes twenty-four measures in six axes of action, which are adjusted point by point to the recommendations made by this maximum supervisory body. I also want to stress that all these plans are published on the Transparency Portal. Besides, all this work for transparency and accountability doesn't end in this story, and in the last quarter of last year we worked on several lines. Galicia in 2021 was the first Autonomous Community to approve a General Risk Prevention and Anti-Fraud Plan for Next Generation Funds. I would like to recall that in order 30/2021 the Government of Spain required all governments with competence to manage European funds to approve such a plan. But today we have no news that the General Administration of the State has its own plan, and only three autonomous communities, including Galicia, have such a plan. This plan will identify the main risks and prevention measures that affect the institutional integrity of each board and of each instrumental entity in the autonomic public sector. Even so, it will increase transparency in management and respond to citizens' demands, which require higher levels of accountability in the exercise of public functions. And two weeks ago, at the January 13 Council, we also agreed to simplify the model of grant to self-government and businesses. What's your goal? With a view to reducing the management and processing times of grant orders funded by the recovery and resilience mechanism, and with a view to improving control over them. As for the date of publication of the annual public procurement reports, I would first of all like to make it clear that the law does not speak of a specific periodicity in its publication. In fact, at the Galician Summit we used to publish these reports year by year, and so we did it until 2020, when the pandemic changed everything. Therefore, with regard to the information of the year 2019, we must bear in mind that much of it was being charged in that first quarter of the year 2020 when the pandemic broke down and changed the management priorities of that unit towards regulatory collaboration and staff reorganization in the health emergencies that we were living. Besides, the end of the first strike coincided with an election call and the subsequent administrative reorganization of the board I refer to. Therefore, the data for the year 2019 has not been uploaded, it is true. It must be borne in mind that it was not an isolated fact in the board of Galicia, but it happened to other public administrations as well. Obviously, the year 2020 was an extraordinary year as well as much of the year 2021. But we will recover this report and we have decided to publish a report covering 2019, 2020 and 2021, which will go up to the transparency website in the coming days. Therefore, it is not in any case to report on the recruitment data for 2019 and 2020, but to provide an even more transparent three-year and comparative view. At this point, we are processing the data that we will publish in the next few days, and we have almost finished the report, which, as I say, will hang in the next few days. And that'll be the case because, as I've already indicated, the German Government is committed to transparency. And as I'm also asked for recruitment data, I'd like to mention, the lack of an end to the update of the data of 2021, to some data that you refer to in your questions. As I have just said, I can advance the mains of the previous year, the year 2020, and the comparison with the year 2019. Obviously, the recruitment was conditioned by the pandemic situation — as I have just said — and by the initial effects of the Royal Decree of the law that declared the state of alarm. In addition, pre- and post-election periods also influenced the decrease in recruitment in that year 2020. Thus, compared to the 190,754 files of the year 2019, a total of 174,469 files were published on the recruitment platform in 2020. With regard to the report, taking into account the reasons referred to, the tendered account increased from almost EUR 1.950 million in 2019 to EUR 1.766 million in 2020. Obviously, both the declaration of the alarm state of March — as I said — and the election calls made in the year 2020 reduce these times to bid in relation to a regular period. I would also like to point out that in 2020 100 per cent of all contracts were made through the Galician E-Tax System. Of the total files, some three-quarters, 76.8% correspond to the Galego Health Service, 10.3% were accounted for in the consultancy offices and 12.5% in other self-employed public sector entities. Thus, the Galician Recruitment Platform registered in 2020 a total of 133,979 Sergas files, amounting to 1,012 million euros; 17,951 in councils, amounting to 421 million euros; and 22,539 in other public sector entities, amounting to 332 million euros. With regard to your last question, concerning the type of procurement procedure, I would like to point out that, for example, in the tendering by the councils, 79.27 % of the total amount auctioned was made through the open procedure and that in all instrumental entities this percentage of open procedure reached 75.15 %. Far away, therefore, from the figures you've pointed out in your intervention. Finally, I would like to express the commitment of the Government of Greece to continue to face socially responsible recruitment and transparency in terms of recruitment. Finally, full and strengthened commitment to transparency, generally and often, in terms of procurement data. We are currently processing and completing the 2021 data report, and in the coming days we will offer an even more transparent three-year comparative vision of the 2019-2021 period. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u150	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, you said my ideology is closer to Putin than yours. Well, I mentioned Putin for the issue of the transparency of legality. If I had to tell you who Mr Putin is approaching in matters of transparency and compliance with legality, I think he is much closer to Mr Baltar than to any member of the Socialist Party. And by the way, Mr Putin is also not — let us say — that he can be taken advantage of as an example of communism, which is what you can say, because Mr Putin is better at a good fascism, which is precisely what leads to the lack of transparency and the failure to comply with legality and the abuse of discretion in the use of public resources. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You told me, as I could not be less, that you have many plans and measures. Whenever one criticizes the Concrete Council of Galicia, measured and with data, you refer to the hundreds of plans. The other day, Mrs. Paula Prado seems to me to have said that you have one hundred and fifty-four plans, nothing more and nothing less. The problem is, plans are wet paper. What you do tell me is that in 2019 the problem was that you were loading the information, and then the pandemic came. Well, then it's a load problem. This publicity of public procurement was a burden problem. In any case, almost eight months ago, I was told the same thing, which was the pandemic. So the problem wasn't the pandemic, it seems it was a load problem associated with the pandemic, which seems to reproduce until today that you've had three years of delay nothing more and nothing less. You tell me you're going to publish that data. And I anticipate that there are 79.27% of the Board's resources that are managed by the open procedure in terms of procurement. Well, it contrasts remarkably. You seem to have greatly improved, we'll be very glad, because in 2018, that's the latest data published, because it was 35% by open procedure, which is less than half, for example, of the state. In 2018 you had 35% by open procedure; now tell me you're going to have, according to that data that you're going to publish -- I'll be very happy -- 79.27%. Tell me that data is far from the numbers I handle. Obviously, but it's yours, the figures I handle are yours in 2018. We'll wait at any rate to see what that report says that you're going to publish in the near future. Without a desire to improve, without transparency — which I perceive in your case and in the case of all the representatives of the People's Party who do not exist — without control of the management of the public administration, without real evaluation and measurement of the effectiveness, efficiency, of the policies of the autonomous administration, it is absolutely impossible to guarantee a certain level of resilience, which is essential to phenomena, for example, such as the pandemic we are experiencing or the most structural crises, such as those associated with economic and social changes that we are experiencing rapidly in this century and which will come in the future. That is why — I repeat — we are wondering how we might be in the year 2022 and we still don't have the contract data for the year 2019, because it's not a burden problem, Counsellor. I mean, this should be as simple as giving a little button and having automatically compiled autonomic administration contract data. If you can't do that, I'm a real public administration disaster in the 21st century. So you have an obligation to publish it. If you tell me, the law doesn't say when. Of course, the spirit of the law is that you publish it with the immediacy that allows the technological means available. And, as I say, the technological means available in an administration that was at least in terms of efficiency, effectiveness and modernity would be to give you a button and publish the data. Therefore, if you do not publish the data, you will understand that to us, especially in view of what is happening in the House of Ourense and its latest data published in 2018, we are concerned that they are unable to network, publish and make these data transparent. To finish, by data from 2018, we know and we've noticed -- even though you tell me they've varied, but it's your own data -- that there's a very worrying tendency in Galicia to hire your finger. Specifically, by contrasting that data with the data available at the state level, it's the administration that most hired the finger in 2018. We don't know what happened in 2019 and 2020, let's not say no more in 2021. You're anticipating some happy news, but that's why we demand you to comply with the law, which makes it absolutely clear that you have to publish the Board's statistical recruitment data. You therefore comply with the law by publishing that data, even if it's three years behind. And so we can know whether Galicia is still like the Community of Spain in 2018 where more contracts are being dealt with. And so we can also make proposals to prevent that situation from reproducing in the future, and not happening in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u152	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u153	...what's going on in Ourense, which we care a lot about. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u154	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u155	Mr. Corgos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe I didn't explain well in my previous intervention. I didn't mean it was a data load problem; the data are loaded and at the disposal of anyone interested in exploiting them on the recruitment platform, as I think I literally said. What is not loaded is the data report, which is not as simple as you just suggested giving you a button and the report appears. It is noted that you never had to make a report covering the own contracts of an administration that mobilises a consolidated budget of more than EUR 11 billion. Your Honor, I believe that in my speech I have given enough information on the level of commitment of the Government of Greece for the sake of a continuous reinforcement of transparency, not only in terms of recruitment but globally, as well as in the prevention of unwanted practices. On the transparency policy in recruitment let me insist: any citizen — as I have just said — has sufficient information on the recruitment platform, in which he can consult any data in which he is interested, such as the number of contracts, types of contracts, procurement procedures, amounts, valuation reports, reports of recruitment tables, reports of expert experts, changes in contracts, extensions, complementary and so forth. As for the publication of the annual report on recruitment -- I insist -- the law does not speak of a specific periodicity for its publication, and we are finalizing the 2021 data. He should have gone up to the platform by now, of course. In the coming days, we will publish not only the 2019 data report, but the 2019-2021 report. And I'm telling you again that the reason they're not yet published is because of the pandemic situation we're still suffering, a situation that not only conditions the Greek administration. But I believe that in the area of transparency, in this particular detail, unless we reach this report, we are doing so in full form and depth. In fact, I'll give you two examples: The first referred to in the IV Open Government Plan of the General Government of the State, on which the Autonomous Community of Galicia requested to include a heading on institutional integrity. Well, right now, the level of commitments reached by Galicia in this section of the plan is more than seventy percent. On the contrary, the General Administration of the State has not yet done or diagnosed its systems of prevention of corruption or, of course, approved any plans or programs. We already know that you think we have a lot of approved plans and programs, but it's just that others are not able to diagnose their problems or approve a plan to shorten them. The second, to see that we work as quickly as possible to provide aggregate information, I want to remind you that the General Administration of the State has also taken more than six months to process your recruitment data. So for comparative purposes, I'll tell you that the 2019 AXE recruitment statistics were published on June 25, 2021. We will publish the 2019, 2020 and 2021 report in the coming days. I'm not going to criticize you, so you can understand that the pandemic has not only conditioned the priorities of the Greek Government but those of all public administrations. And by the way, and by focusing again on the annual recruitment reports you've been interested in, I'm finished as I started: I guarantee we'll update and publish the data for the 2019-2021 triennium on the Transparency Portal in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u157	Thank you very much, Counselor. Now we move on to the next item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u158	You know that from the first one, we were asked to welcome the Council of Galicia, and we moved on to the second question. Question by Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the irregularities detected by the Galician Board in the documentation presented by the company in the wind park of the Cotos, in the municipality of Cerdedo-Cotobade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u159	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u160	Mr. Conde, what else has to happen for you to stop this predatory wind policy that favors big power companies? The last news we have had these days was a judgment, which you will say is not firm but is powerful — and there are already three! — of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which says that you have violated Community directives and environmental legislation. What else has to happen, Mr. Count? They'll come more, I assure you they'll come more. [[Applause]] In November, the report by the Galician Council of Culture, which again gives a genuine beat to the wind politics of the Union, said to stop and make a new wind sector plan. A number of reports came out earlier from the University of Vigo, the wind observatory of Galicia, which once again questions the wind model of the People's Party board. There were statements of associations, agricultural organizations and ecological organizations against this wind plan. And there's a real cry throughout the country also through manifestations and positions of municipalities of every political sign. And what is the reply of the Board, Mr. Conde? Your answer is to step on the accelerator, to look for shortcuts, is to change the laws so you can honestly favor the interests of companies, because you are a manager at the service of these big wind companies. [[Applause]] A clear example of this we have in the park of Cotos, in Sardinia-Cotobade. Do you know when you drew this project into public information? On December 23rd, on full Christmas dates, with fifteen days in time to submit allegations. Does this sound normal, Mr. Conde, when the project was approved two months earlier at the Board of Trustees? By the way, he had to go back to public information, according to the mayor of Cerdedo-Cotobade, for irregularities. We want to ask you what these irregularities are, and if you were already in the project that approved the Board on 21 October, and if you don't have to start the processing again. This is a project promoted by Ecoener -- I don't know if it's alone -- a company that's a friend of the People's Party's Union government -- a spin-door company. It is a project that has a huge impact on six parishes, with 30megawatts — six 5-megawatt mills — and 200m high. It has a unanimous rejection of the mountain communities, of the neighborhood collectives, of the platforms, of the Town Hall itself, which also approved a motion regarding the rejection of this park. So, Mr. Conde, I ask you a very clear and very specific question: will you listen to people and the council or will you continue to defend the interests of big wind companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, I see that the Galego Nationalist Block follows in its wake of sectarianism, ideology and, unfortunately, trying to block the country from an economic and industrial point of view. It's the only vocation they have from an economic point of view. I'm sorry that, in some ways, is once again the loop in which the Nationalist Block Galego develops its industrial position and its position of the generation of employment and wealth in Galicia. In addition, on a subject where you ask the question and ask the answer, which is very curious, because they are already taking part not only in their position, but in what they have to take over the Government. In fact, you transfer me a judgment that is not firm, but what I can confirm is that the sentence you refer to will not vary an apex to our priority. Our priority, I think, could be shared by all groups of the House. Unfortunately, there are exceptions that are difficult to understand, but the first priority of the Galician Council is to promote an orderly development of the wind sector in Galicia. An orderly development as is being done in other autonomous communities, as is being done in the rest of Europe, precisely in order to be able to meet the challenges of energy transition with maximum rigor, with maximum responsibility and knowing that there is a regulatory framework that maintains such protection of the environment and the economic and social impact of each of the projects. So, I think in that sense what I could remind you of is that the repertence of the Corme wind farm to which you refer has, for example, allowed 61 aerogeors to be changed by 7, thus reducing the impact by 90%, both environmental and landscape. As for the wind park of the Cotos, can you tell me why you're trying to generate controversy and confusion where there's no such thing? It would be very interesting to understand what the situation of irregularities is when you simply detect an error in the relationship of affected goods and rights, and just what the Galician Union does is to republish that relationship. So in the process of the project, listen to the allegations that are received in both processes, being absolutely guaranteed both by the neighbors and by associations, as well as by the municipalities. I'm sorry you don't want to understand that in Galicia the last word always has legislation and regulation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u163	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u164	You're still here with your usual mackerel to accuse us of ideologicalism or sectarianism. Of course, this is an ideological matter, this is clear; you have yours and we have ours, which are very different, fortunately. In any case, you're talking about sectarianism. Sectarianism also of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia?, sectarianism of the Galaga Culture Council?, Sectarism of the Town Councils?, sectarianism of the Galician Wind Observatory? [[Applause]] Are they accusing of sectarianism of these organizations that we take the arguments from and bring them here? You are in disobedience, in disobedience to European legislation, in disobedience to the Environmental Assessment Act, in disobedience to the guarantees of people's rights. They're running, systematically trampling people's rights. [[Applause]] And now you say they're not going to change anything, they're going to continue applying illegal legislation, they're not going to change the approved and changed regulations, requitecambida... you know why? To promote the interests of companies. Just for that, Mr. Count. Look: Sardinian-Cotobade neighborhood, which is also sectarian, has filed more than seven hundred allegations against this project. The plenary session of the Sardinian Cotobad Town Hall, which you rule and will also be sectarians there, approved a pronouncement against this project. What are we talking about? There were massive mobilizations against this project. [[Applause]] By the way, Ecoener, a friend of the People's Party, with the turning doors of the People's Party, where there are two ex-ministers of the People's Party, Mr Serra and Mrs Ana Palacio. What are we talking about? You're favoring those interests, so that's the turning doors. Whoever talked about irregularities was the mayor of Cotobade. I read you a publication of your social media: "Irregularities detected by the board in the documentation submitted by the company force public information to be made public again." But you're going to make a public information again illegal for fifteen days, when it has to be at least thirty. So let him be clear: not the neighbouring Sardinian Cotobade nor the BNG will allow him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. But, Mr Bará, don't get nervous. If I'm the only one making it, it's a call for the Galician Nationalist Block to comply with the laws and respect those laws, that you permanently put yourself, precisely, in that situation of failure to comply with the laws. [[Murmurs.]] What I don't understand about the Galego Nationalist Block is that they don't want to understand that in Galicia, as I said to you, the last word has legislation, and that if a project meets all the requirements of the regulatory framework, it goes ahead. And if he doesn't do it, Mr. Bará, go ahead. You have the example in the wind farm of Borbonne's Reboreda de Paz Mountains, which has just fallen. He just went down precisely because he didn't comply with that regulatory framework. That's why we insisted, Mr Bará, and moved him to the neighborhood of Cotobade and all the municipalities that may have a concern about the development of an wind project: processing is not to authorize. To process it is to check and verify whether this economic project is really a wind project or any other economic project, it actually meets all environmental and policy requirements. And in that context is where the wind sector will develop in Galicia. All the projects, Mr Bará, all the projects that are being processed in Galicia, even if you don't want to admit them, they adjust to the regulations, and we authorize all those who comply with the technical, legal and environmental guarantees. We have a law on the wind sector that protects these interests, both the interests and the rights of the neighbors and the environmental and territorial impacts, and we have a state environmental assessment law, which says that all wind projects have to go through an ordinary environmental assessment. So we have total transparency with the public exposure of project documentation, total transparency for compliance. And the question is why the Galician Nationalist Block is against wind development, why you want to block the wind sector when there can really be projects that can allow you to actually generate wealth in Galicia and, above all, that we can meet the needs of an energy transition that you defend. They should be clearer and somewhat coherent from a political point of view, because they're not really consistent at all. We cannot defend the energy transition and at the same time pretend this government to paralyze all energy projects. They won't find us there. Where they're going to meet us is in compliance with the regulations. We will process the projects, all kinds of economic project, and we will ensure that the regulations are actually complied with. And from there I regret that the Galego Nationalist Block is simply in the blockade and in saying no to the economic development that enriches...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u167	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u168	...and create jobs in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u169	Thank you very much. Da Noelia Otero Lago's question and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of industrial development and wind energy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u170	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u171	Thank you very much. Well, let's keep a little bit in the chair, see if we can find any answers. Because in fact, counsellor, there are several attempts already through questions and interpelerations, but it is also outside the walls of this Parliament, the councils, the associations, the companies themselves, the Wind Association, who have held meetings with you and with the heads of the council, are demanding that information; and the truth is that we are talking about that planning and regulation, which we don't know which one we have to touch, because there is little information. We were saying at last full of last year, debating the wind model of this government, that the truth is that it was worth putting in agreement with so many agents, all of whom have something to say in relation to the wind development of Galicia and of such different natures, from ecological associations, councils, companies themselves, even the Galician Council of Culture, which was the last of the ones to say asking for a new and more transparent wind development in our community, absolutely have the merit — we say — to put in agreement to everyone — with such diverse interests, so varied — to say that the only thing they have in abundance and that they have achieved all this time since their advice around this model is to sow the legal insecurity, is to sow the malaise, the misinformation and the lack of transparency. In just a few months now, the decisions of the courts — we speak not of political decisions but of courts — that come to condemn decisions of the Council of Galicia itself and its council. The last one we met last Friday with that judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in relation to the Roncudo project in Corme, which condemns because it violates various regulations, including European legislation itself, for reducing, and therefore annuls that decision of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u172	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u173	...reducing this information project from thirty to fifteen days in the environmental impact report and the possibility of filing claims. The law of 2017, that of the 2020 reactivation, the current law, with all those normative changes that introduce through the Law of Backdoor Accompaniment, without dialogue, without information, confirm the failure of this model that you defend. And we asked, since you said that the regulation is the one that commands in Galicia: which of them, which one of these regulations that no one knows about?, what of these changes that have been introduced in incoherently? And while a moratorium comes into force, the president of the board announces that they will encourage and accelerate the processing of wind farms. What are we left with, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u175	Mrs Otero, you probably like your spokesman for the Socialist Party's Government so much, what I'm curious about is why you don't ask the Ministry of Ecological Transition precisely for the political policy of the Galician Union. You will surely first find that this government is complying with all the basic regulations that are established from the environmental point of view, and that this government is also complying with all the regulations from the planning point of view, and thus granting legal certainty to the sector. You know perfectly well that in this autonomous community, the difference between many other autonomous communities, we have a sectoral wind plan that is fully in force and makes it possible, Mrs. Otero, that 77% of our territory is shielded from the installation of wind projects, including the protection of the spaces of the Nature Network and the reserves of the biosphere. When you talk to me about transparency, I wonder what information, you or any neighbor or any council in Galicia can't access. I'd like you to pass it on to me. Because you know there's a provincial information network of wind projects that already takes more than half a hundred meetings with the different municipalities that are approaching to get any kind of information. You know we have a divergent guide to the processing of a wind project, which is different from the guide that some political party is promoting in Galicia just to see how it can prevent the development of a project. And you know that this government has created an information office for landowners, precisely to facilitate guidance on applicable legislation and methods and valuation criteria. Therefore, it seems that what is unclear about the position of wind development in Galicia and Spain is the Socialist Party of Galicia, which sometimes defends the Stop Winds platforms and others is defending Galicia's own Winds Association and hence promoters. What you don't want to recognize is that the Galician Union is processing the projects according to regulations and that when you have to deny a project and when you have to approve it, you always comply with the regulations. And in the current context we are taking measures that unfortunately the Socialist Party does not support. In the street one thing says and in Parliament another. We are setting standards precisely to be able to process the 200-five dossiers that are admitted to the trial, which could therefore facilitate wind development, and widen the distances between the rural cores to a thousand meters, which you did not want to support in this parliament. So, I think there's a clear policy of supporting wind development that unfortunately doesn't count...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u177	...in Galicia with the support of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u178	Mrs. Otero Lago has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u179	Counsellor, we do not know which model supports the Socialist Party and we have presented it in various initiatives in this parliament: a model of wind development, sustainable and necessary, but sustainable and respectful. You were talking about the Natura Network. We have presented on several occasions also the need to expand it, because it's shallow and we're on the line of the state. You were talking about compliance. There's no more to the resolutions of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on fragmentation, some public exhibitions... an absolute failure, and not the Socialist Party, we insist. What it is worth is to agree on associations, councils and businesses in full European energy transition. At this moment, what we have in Galicia is this scenario of uncertainty, of legal insecurity and, above all, of lack of information, and the worst of it may be the courage to come to this parliament, even though we need clarification and information. You spoke about the central government, something that's not surprising when we intervene or lie to him. Even the Galaga Culture Council saw that it had to be spoken about this absolute lack of planning. At a time that we consider decisive, in which what should be an energy and economic opportunity, an opportunity marked by the obligation assumed, at least, in your speeches in the fight against climate change, in this context of emergency, but instead of taking an opportunity they have become -- we insist -- a problem. You were talking about clarity. How do you understand and eat, Counselor, that in the course of the entry into force of a moratorium, within a few days, the President of the Council of Galicia is leaving saying that he will announce incentives to speed up the proceedings? It's the policy of arbitrariness, not knowing what we have to touch. And we proposed, to finish, a new model, a planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u181	...adjusted and transparent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u182	Your time is up. Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u183	It is noted, Mrs Otero, that you are ashamed of the policy of the wind sector that is developing your own government, which is curious and could certainly discuss it perfectly with the third vice president and minister of Transition himself. What I regret is that your parliamentary group continues to maintain its ambiguity and lack of support for wind development, and that, unfortunately, on many occasions, the Socialist Party of Galicia also stands behind the "No to the wind sector" banner as such. You know perfectly well that we have evaluated all the projects and, therefore, that we are absolutely guaranteed from the point of view of technical, legal and environmental requirements, and we will continue to do so — even if you do not want to recognise it — with complete transparency, rigour and administrative agility. We are facing an energy transition context. And that the Socialist Party in Galicia has the policy of trying to block wind development in Galicia is really an anomalous situation from the point of view of its own government. Anyway, you tell me about the moratorium. You know perfectly well that the moratorium we established at a time when your government passed a royal decree, the Royal Decree 23/2020, which established very demanding deadlines for promoters to develop and process their projects. You know that automatically the proponents in an invasive way began to process the projects, in many cases, without all guarantees, even projects that didn't comply with regulations. And what we've done is we've just established a moratorium so we can process the 7,200 megawatts that are admitted to processing and that are 200 seventy-five files that can allow the development of the wind sector. So moratorium is not the paralytic of the sector; moratorium is an orderly development of the sector in order to ensure that all projects comply with all guarantees. In this same context, we have brought to this Parliament a proposal, which is precisely that those projects that can be dealt with can be linked to PPA, which enables the competitiveness of the industrial sector in Galicia, of electro-intensive companies and other industries, such as Alcoa. Do you know what the Socialist Party of Galicia said? He said it wasn't precisely that the development of the wind sector could allow for greater competitiveness in the industrial sector in Galicia. Unfortunately, you, to block industrial development in Galicia, do anything, even develop a different policy than your own party is developing through the Ministry of Economic Transition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u184	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u185	You should put some consistency in your renewable energy policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u186	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u187	...and for many other sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u188	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question, which was welcomed at the request of the Council of Galicia, which is 6.6, by Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Employment and Equality Council of the four rescue plans put in place to mitigate the effects of covid-19 on Galicia's productive tissue
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u189	To put the question, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. You, Counsellor, and your team are responsible for the development of the actions provided for in the Galician Union Government Programme on Employment and Equality. A roadmap that contemplates ordinary actions such as direct help, self-employment or job promotion on an account basis. But also extraordinary actions, in particular, offering a response to the collapse of the coward-19 on the economic and social stage. Once again, the Greek Government anticipated any other administration and had to incorporate extraordinary measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on the Greek society. Thus, the Employment and Equality Council article and carried out four rescue plans in just over nine months to accompany the productive fabric of our community, especially those sectors and activities affected to a greater degree by the consequences of the curfew-19. I'm talking mainly about working people, self-employed people or pemes or microenterprises. In fact, you can confirm these figures through the first two rescue plans with autonomic funds, where more than one hundred and eighty million euros were allocated, which allowed 80 thousand applications to be answered. A success that was possible thanks to the correct design based on the flexibility of the requirements. On the other hand, it seems that both the third and fourth rescue plans, on this occasion with funds transferred by the central government, incorporated conditional restraints for their execution. A design imposed on autonomous communities since The Moncloa, which was translated into these plans that did not achieve the corresponding results due — I insist — to strict criteria imposed by the Central Government. Counsellor, recently the deadline for the state of execution of these funds has been closed in the case of Galicia to the third and fourth groundwork plan, so I understand that we are in a position to balance the results obtained. In particular, we would like to know from the majority group of this chamber, from the Popular Group, that evaluation makes the Employment and Equality Adviser of the four rescue plans set in motion to mitigate the effects of coward-19 on Galicia's productive tissue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u192	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. In fact, in Galicia we processed four rescue plans: the first two with criteria and autonomous funds, and the other two with criteria and with state funds. What's the balance? This government takes possession in September of the year 2021 and then in October we dealt and dialogue the plan with the self-employed and businessmen, and in November this first plan was published. In February, when we were still paying for this first plan, we drew a second rescue plan; in six months — as I say — from November to about April, we paid 80,000 applications, that is, more than one hundred and eighty million euros. A year after the pandemic — that is, in March — finally brings out the State a royal decree laying down the requirements for the transfer and processing by the autonomous communities of what in Galicia were the third and fourth rescue plan. This royal decree obviously came out of the pressure the self-employed and the businesses made to the central government, as well as the pressure we made to the self-government, because a year after the pandemic began, no money had yet been transferred, not a euro, by the government of the state. He came out with a series of requirements that were easier to comply with than did the companies, and he was warned by the various self-governments and also by the German Government. The reality is that of the two hundred and thirty-four million that corresponded to Galicia, we could only pay one hundred and sixty-six million euros of the fifteen thousand applications, when there were applications worth two billion euros for self-government and businesses in Galicia. The reality is that Galicia has a very high execution of these two plans in relation to the rest of the state; we're at the top of all autonomous communities as far as execution is concerned and we turn seventy percent. That is to say, of the five billion euros that have been distributed among the autonomous communities by the State through this real decree, taking down, they will have to return to the State, to the Ministry of Fairy, two billion euros, if we extrapolate what happens in Galicia, which, as I say, is a community that has led to the greatest flexibility it has achieved in relation to the requirements imposed by the State. So the balance we make is bad when it comes to the requirements laid down by the State and we once again request that these funds be left in the autonomous communities for their management exclusively, so that they arrive at the self-employed and arrive at the companies, and not for them to return to the Ministry of Business and remain unimplemented. Nothing else, for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u193	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Counselor for your information. Look at this chance! My respectable friend, and new spokesperson for the Socialist Group, today was in their responsibility to talk about the execution of the employment funds. And I should take note of what you just explained because the figures have just exploded to the Socialist Group — as it is often said — in his hands, to the point of making reality that saying, "Tell me what you're assuming and I'll tell you what you lack." The reality is that when rescue plans are designed by the Socialist Party, imposed by the Moncloa outside the reality of Galicia and the business fabric of our autonomous community, they end up becoming a real failure and a real chauffeur. Weak and caped with capitals! But here does not lose the Socialist Party, not even lose the People's Party, here lose the Greeks and the Greeks, who see that once unprecedented resources have been mobilized, where are those resources left, Counsellor? They remain at all, because of the failure of the Government of Spain to recognize that it has been wrong, and when one recognizes that it has been wrong what to do is to rectify it in this case. And the question, Counselor, is very simple: what's the point of Moncloa's releasing funds if she does it with such impossible conditions that they leave out thousands of businesses and thousands of self-employed people? And this was also not a unique and exclusive problem of Galicia, but it was a generalized problem of all autonomous communities. And if we weren't misunderstandings, we could deduce that the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u196	...released funds to win a press headline...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u197	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u198	Thank you very much. I don't think it's wrong to really believe that state requirements are made so that funds can't be executed. In Galicia there are many self-employed who have been left without subsidy solely because they are aware of their payments. That is, the requirements somehow censored access to aid to all and every one of the autonomous and small companies that were aware of it and therefore had no bills to pay; regardless of whether they could be completely ruined. As I say, I believe that the data speak for themselves: if we in six months processed eighty thousand applications and paid one hundred percent of the budget, and in eight months with the state requirements reached fifteen thousand applications worth two billion euros, and we were able to pay only seventy percent of the two hundred thirty-four million that corresponded to Galicia — which is another matter we could also talk about, because Galicia usually receives about seven percent of the employment funds — here received just over three percent. But I'm just asking Galicia to execute the scarce money that corresponded to these five billion euros. As I say, the State, the Ministry of Business, with the requirements set by Mrs Calvin, now receives back from the autonomous communities — and you gave it very well — because they did not reach autonomous and business, two billion euros. What do we ask of the state? I just sent two letters to both Vice President Calvin and the Minister of Fairy to ask them that at least those scarce money they had given them to Galicia remain in Galicia. So let us make a new rescue plan in this year 2022 from those funds, that about thirty percent that will not be executed in the autonomous community. But to allow it to be executed by the criteria established by the autonomous communities, which are reasonable criteria that go solely to closed sectors or to sectors that have been highly relevant invoicing discharges between one exercise and another, and between the period prior to the pandemic and the time of the pandemic. They are safe, fast-to-administrative criteria that are consolidated and spoken to companies, trade unions and self-employed people. The only ones who don't believe in these criteria are the Minister of Fairy and the vice-presidential economics. All social dialogue and other governments believe in these criteria and are the only ones to be able to implement these funds. So I ask — not only, of course, the People's Party, but the rest of the forces and especially the forces of the Socialist Party in Galicia — to support this request that these funds remain in Galicia and not return to the state, and that therefore the self-sufficient and small businesses remain in Galicia without this money that needs them and much. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u199	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galego Health Service in relation to the fourteen health centres of the health area of Vigo who have just been restricted the activity of primary care units
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u200	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u201	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counsellor of Health. One of the last disastrous decisions of Mr. Feijóo's Government in primary care in our autonomous community was to restrict activity in several health centres, making the optionals only care for emergencies and cases covered. This situation came from the fact that there were many professionals on leave and vacations and vacant places for retirements; and of course there are no holidays, no retirements, no retirements, no retirements. But this situation is not new, Counsellor; from this parliamentary group we have taken all this legislation outlining this situation and denouncing the collapse of primary care. The restriction of activity has affected the primary units of the Rosal, the Guard... it is indecent, indeed, the situation of primary care in the Guard. There's nothing more to go to that health center to see how the doctors are and to see how the neighborhoods and the neighborhoods of the Guard are. In Tomineño, in Oia, there's only one doctor and there's no pediatrician. [[Applause]] In Cangas, it's collapsed. In Moaña, who have just left Moaña without emergency, collapsing with Cangas. I mean, this is intolerable, this is intolerable. In Ponteares and the Porriño. In Vigo, the largest city in Galicia, you did what you did was restrict primary care at the center of Navia, Nicolás Peña, Beiramar, Casco Vello, Matamá and Teis. It's incredible, it's incredible what's happening with primary care in our autonomous community. But well, there were many professionals — from here to thank you — who chose to keep appointments and follow open schedules, when you decided that these fourteen primary health care centers in Vigo restricted their agendas, blocked them, and that only people had been cared for if they had been sheltered or by emergencies. Counsellor, these measures are an attack on public, free and universal health. Every citizen has the right to go to his doctor for any illness, all citizenship, not just emergencies, and not just people who have a life. Everyone has the right to free public health. Primary care is completely unburdened, Counsellor, with days of up to 190 patients in some CAPs, with professionals exhausted, with increasingly paintings of depression and anxiety between doctors and doctors and with total discouragement. Our recognition for all healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u203	It's necessary to put urgently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u204	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Now give the word to the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u205	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gallego. I even answered this question yesterday in my appearance. We live in a pandemic wave conditioned primarily by an explosive increase of cases, which is quite true that such a high percentage of vaccination we have in Galicia has conditioned that many have had less severity, thus lighter. Besides, we have a general problem in primary, which is also known, that there is a lack of doctors and specialists. This wave was similar to last summer's relative to that which coincided at a time when there were also the corresponding vacation permits and in this case with a high percentage of infected health workers. All these issues have conditioned primary activity and, of course, also in Vigo, especially in some places where we had previous incidences, such as the centres of Lower Mine, of those we have already talked about in this parliament. But Junta took measures during the pandemic so that most of the activity related to covid wouldn't fall into primary care. The caretakers, the servants outside the health centres, the vaccinations in the large enclosures, or the drugstore agreements allowed the primary care burden to be lifted. And also during this explosive wave, measures have been taken to decongest health centres. For example, the self-declaration form for self-tests, less called to active patients and through family or nursing physicians, or the automatic processing of discharges and casualties. And we take reorganisation measures, such as quality schedules, prescription by pharmacists, CRM 100 for citizens' calls. We also put more staff, continuity contracts, 331 primary care squares in our plan, 109 places in this year's primary budgeting or in the recently approved Law of Measures, the incorporation of health technicians and that category of optional primary care specialists by merit contest that announced this morning the president with these 106 MIR squares that finish their training this year. However, attention to the CAP is always given priority, of course, and then, of course, attention to the ordinary agenda. Well, among the permits and discounts that have also occurred among the staff of health centres as a result of the covid, it was necessary to take a measure to limit overdemand. We're going to make things dark. The schedules were not limited, Mrs. Gallego, the over-demand focus was limited. For three days, 4, 5 and 7. I repeat: three days in fourteen health centers across Galicia, and in some cases not all shifts. What would you say, Mrs Gallego, to a councillor from another autonomous community who, instead of three days in fourteen health centres, makes this decision throughout the autonomous community during the whole month of January? I'll see what he answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u206	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u207	Counsellor, I live in Galicia, I live in Galicia, not in another autonomous community. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to read you some news this past month: Under Mine is going out the street to ask for more staff in primary care. Protest for Moaña's emergency service again. 200 possible nurses from Vigo's health area cry out against precariousness in Álvaro Cunqueiro. And so it could go until tomorrow, but I don't have time. In short, Mr. Feijóo's government is ending with quality public health in Galicia. That's right, that's right. It's ending up with healthcare professionals. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u208	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u209	They can't anymore, professionals can't anymore. Look, there's no doctors, there's no doctors, there's nothing more than repeating it over and over again. And it turns out we all know doctors who are in Portugal because work conditions are better. That's it, and that's it, better working conditions for doctors and doctors, Counselor. And, besides, since Feijóo's rule, Galicia has refused to form 151 family doctors. That's right, that's right. That's what you and Mr. Feijóo are doing with public health, it's dismantling Welsh public health, and I'm going to repeat it over and over again. And then I beg you, I ask you, I ask you very earnestly, please, medical ambulances for the Lower Mine. The Guard urgently needs medical ambulances. Like Morrazo, more medical ambulances for Morrazo. Please stop playing with the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. Please stop playing with health, which is a very serious topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u211	Well, as it was expected, it surprises us that the need for some of you is missing for others, especially when they are from the same political party. [[Applause]] Besides, look, you're lying. Look, the decision was made according to the professionals, and you have nothing else to document. Just like you get news from the papers, look at all the papers... then I'll give it to you. [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm talking about the fourteen centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u212	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u213	Title: We ask Sergas to attend only emergencies and cover because it was strictly necessary. And they also lie in their interpretation of the reality of these centers. First of all, this decision is taken in the face of a number of absences that conditioned attention at the center by the companions who are still serving. The presence in these fourteen centers over three days — three days — was an average of between 37% and 39% of the usual presences. Secondly, attendance on overdemand is limited. That is, on the agendas of the optionals that were working with a range of between 35 and 39 slots, what is done is that the holes after the overdemand, which are often sometimes among the 21 final patients, these 21 are limited only to urgent or curvature patients. In other words, the programmed activity was maintained, with a range of slots — I repeat — between 30 and 39. And all this, Mrs. Gallego, is the serious situation you're talking about. We're talking about 57 slots. Look, in those three days, in those fourteen health centers, do you know how many people responded to these areas? Over 3,000 people. That to be closed down the centers is a pretty important amount, isn't it? As you can see, these centres do not appear to have been closed, quite the opposite — they have been opened — but addressing this assistance moment with reorganisational measures to ensure patient care. I repeat again that you have a double measuring rod and one, of course, huge hypocrisy by criticising here what you do where you rule, in addition to using reality to torturefully alert you to primary care that is going on, but with professionals from here we should thank you for your work, especially in the last month. We will continue to work on the measures we have already put in place and move forward in which we already have the initiative to reform primary care and, of course, adapt it and equip it with the resources it deserves. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u214	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Paulo Ríos Santôme and Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures planned to take the Galician Union to provide the Morrazo region with an appropriate emergency service of 061
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u215	To put the question, Mr. Rios Santôme has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I would like to begin my intervention today by apologizing to you, apologizing to Mr. Fexóo, because I believe that something very serious had to be done for you to be punished in this way by the proximity of Moaña, so that the neighboring Moaña will have to endure what is enduring at the health level and, as you know, with an emergency shifted to Cangas, for too long, with nearly 3,000 people without a doctor today assigned and with an emergency service, with an ambulance service that is triggering fatal consequences. Once again, the BNG brings the emergency situation of Morrazo villages to the full of Parliament at the health level, specifically today that of Moaña. This is not the first time that we demand that the Morrazo ambulance service be strengthened, a fundamental service to ensure adequate health care and a good response to the emergencies that occur. Late ambulances, medical personnel moving by taxi to meet serious emergencies as a general rule, technical and medical personnel totally drowned and exceeded all levels, and the fear and uncertainty of the neighborhood before all I have just exposed. This is the situation in the emergency service today in Moaña. Unfortunately -- and as you know -- we had to regret the death of several people, which they didn't have the opportunity to have proper attention in time and form, a attention to which they have the right, just like anyone, a human right. And they haven't had proper care, not because of medical or technical staff, who are extraordinary professionals, who give even more than they care about. [[Applause]] These people didn't have that opportunity because of the lack of resources, the precariousness and chaotic management that you, with Mr. Faixóo's approval, condemned the professionals and the neighborhood. Morrazo needs a reinforcement ambulance to be able to effectively respond to time-dependent emergencies and with a high priority, the emergencies that need advanced vital support and where every minute counts, as were the emergencies that have characterized the people who unfortunately failed in this month of January. Every day we see how, in order to address matters of gravity, professionals have to travel in taxi services when ambulances are in another service, many of them also made out of their usual area, especially in Vigo Town Hall. And of course, if necessary, they'll have to mobilize resources wherever they are, but without that this would mean neglect in the territories they've assigned. Counsellor, Mr. President, stop punishment for neighbouring, put an ambulance of reinforcement that helps in cases of emergency of the highest priority, that in cases that require advanced vital support we only have a basic support waiting for the service to be completed until half an hour later, as it is happening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Ríos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u219	The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u220	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivers, first of all, I must tell you that this question is exactly the same as you asked me on March 24, 2021, without a comma of difference, exactly the same question. As you will understand, my answer will be no different. [[Murmurs.]] This is because, even if you want to try to move the opposite, the emergency health transport activity in the Morrazo region remains stable, based on the evaluation, the Public Health Emergency Foundation continues to carry out 061. The municipalities of Morrazo, specifically those of Cangas and Moaña, are included in the urgent health transport area of Vigo. As you know, we have a global conception of service and, at the moment, we don't make independent republics. In any case, Vigo's health transport area, where the municipalities of Cangas and Moaña are framed, consists of the following resources: a basic life support ambulance based in Cangas, operating twenty-four hours. This is good to translate it. This is nine technicians available for that ambulance, to give that coverage, and a budget of around EUR 500,000. These two health emergency technicians, of course, carry material for a first intervention, with a semi-automatic external defibrillator. A basic life support ambulance based on Moaña, operating twenty-four hours; that is, nine other technicians plus half a million euros more devoted to this attention, of course also with the corresponding material. Three basic life support ambulances based on Vigo, twenty-seven technicians, operating twenty-four hours. And three basic life support ambulances in the same operating area 14 hours. All in all, we're talking about an endowment of vehicles and nearly sixty technicians dedicated to covering this area of Morrazo. In addition, a vital support ambulance advancing medically based at Vigo, operates twenty-four hours, with medical personnel, nursing staff and two emergency technicians, and also, since 2019, an advanced life support unit for nursing, and of course, also the entire coverage of the two health helicopters that have 061, of course, equipped with the corresponding medical and health personnel. Since 2019, therefore, the transport service has increased with this advanced nursing life support ambulance and the helicopter's operational schedule. As I said at the beginning of my answer, it would be similar to last year's, because the situation hasn't changed, and it hasn't changed in recent years the need for ambulances in that area. The figures are kept around the 5,000 services per year. In the year 2021 there were, in particular, 5,062 services. And if we analyze the activity of each of the vehicles, the Cangas ambulance performs an average of 7.6 services a day, that is, one service every three hours, and that of Moaña does 5.6 services a day, that is, one service every 4.28 hours. With regard to the emergencies of those cases requiring an immediate situation, 3,144 actions were resolved in 2019 and, in 2021, 3,046, even less than before the pandemic. As you see, we are responding to objective activity and there is no need to vary the provision of emergency and emergency services in the Morrazo region.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u221	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Ríos Santomé has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u222	Counsellor, I see we're still in the same, and the BNG is in the same exact same way because we're in the same place where we were a year ago, denouncing the precariousness of this service. And of course they don't change things, they're just as precarious as they were a year ago, when we brought this question here too, which, as I said before, wasn't the first time they came in. We're talking about even, in this case, I myself was in the Cangas emergency when one of the emergency cases was given and I saw with my eyes how the medical staff had to look for their life to get to the place where the emergency was, to find their life, to call taxis, to call civil protection, to call anyone who could come and pick them up at the Cangas CAP and take them to give assistance that they had to give, and so it was catalogued as it needed advanced vital support. [[Applause]] Things are coming in half, bad and bad things are coming. We are keeping opportunities for people with time-dependent emergencies that they can save their lives or that in cases, such as, for example, stroke, they can be much more freer consequences — if we can say it this way. The professionals are completely overwhelmed, looking for life, professionals still not reaching Vigo ambulances and having to meet another emergency in Cangas or Moaña, which means stress level, level of anxiety and level of responsibility that the technicians and techniques of ambulances and medical personnel have. You don't look at numbers, saying that there are bases in Vigo, that there are bases in which you don't know where. The problem is that in ten days in Moaña four people died and they were all late, insufficiently, for medical care. That's how it is, catalogued as first-priority emergencies with advanced vital support where there was an advance, as it has to be, that it does the first support, but that then to complete that health support they came up to spend more than half an hour, more than half an hour until there came an ambulance of reinforcement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u224	Time is life, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u225	Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u226	Look, Mr. Rios, this is not a matter of whim or opinion, but what we have to do, as you will understand, is to use objective data and not opinions to assess the needs, as I told you in particular, the activity of 061, precisely so that it is supposed to provide a good service of circumstances in which times are fundamental, always, in addition, ensuring the accessibility, fairness and efficiency and sustainability of an urgent assistance of the highest quality for the whole population, both in Morrazo and throughout Galicia. We're not going to use particular cases, which we could also talk about the specific times of the more than three thousand emergencies served on that peninsula. But what we have to do is work to improve them, of course. What if I can tell you is that at all times the time has been fulfilled for ambulances equipped with the necessary personnel, personnel trained to deal with these types of cases, and also with defibrillators, who are, in this case, determinants to address this type of emergency. Furthermore, as we have always said, all this activity is coordinated and supported by the coordination centre, classifying it and prioritizing it to assign an answer in accordance with the clinical criteria. That's why we also count on health personnel, medical and nursing professionals with training and experience in the telephone treatment of emergencies. It's a health assessment facility. Therefore, all the mobilization of assistance resources, waiting times, are, of course, valued, reviewed and controlled by health personnel at this plant, which, following a clinical criterion, determines the best choice for each demand. In its decisions, the recommendation of scientific societies and existing protocols is always followed. We believe in this case, as in others, that we have to be careful, because every day there are many professionals who work in this service, complemented by primary care professionals who mobilize in case of need. Look, Your Honor, I don't know if you know it, but one of the usual elements of mobilisation of medical professionals is taxi. That's why we have taxi contracts in the villages. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, there are taxis for that, because when necessary and the ambulance is going to care for the patient, the professional moves in a taxi. This will be a new one for you, but it's like this for the rest of your life, Mr. Rivers. Yes, yes, for all the emergencies. [[Mr. Ríos Santomé pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And I'll give you some data. Look, the per capita ratio of basic life support ambulances in Cangas is one per 26,000 inhabitants in Moaña one per 19,000. Do you know how much Vigo is? One for every 48,900 citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u227	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u228	No, of course, you don't care, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u229	Quiet. Mr. Rivers, please listen. No, listen, no one interrupted you, so I'm asking you the same thing. [[Mr. Ríos Santomé pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u230	I mean, it doesn't make sense to give an ambulance citizen ratio on an ambulance question, no, it's better to see Mr. Rios' opinions and he's surprised to see doctors going out in a cab. Well, look, it's true that doctors go out in a taxi and it's true that in ambulance ratios it's measured when it is. And then I'm done with the four times. You're talking about four cases: nineteen minutes, eight minutes, nine minutes and fourteen minutes to get to the ambulance. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u231	Thank you, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the Policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to single-parent families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u232	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u233	Counsellor, today we bring to this chamber a demand that is so requested by feminist collectives and of support for monoparentity as ignored and unmet by their Government, something as necessary, something as simple as the elaboration of a German register of single-parent families, so that these people can properly see their condition and above all to be recognized as what they are: a form of family more within the framework of a plural and diverse society. And of course, you've been promising for years and years. Already in 2010 — when Bea Mato was responsible for Social Policy, before taking ten years later the winding door to the wind sector — promised us a record. In 2011 you passed that Red Mother's Law, or Family Law, and it was useless. Later, already in 2018 — being counsellor for that then now Mr. Rey Varela — I again promised that record. Also that year — that you were already in the Social Policy Council, in other functions — was a smoke bomb to cover up other things. Do you remember what, Mrs. Garcia? To cover precisely that the People's Party vetoed in the previous legislation a proposal for a single-parent family law, which pushed this parliamentary group and would have put us at the vanguard in the Spanish state. [[Applause]] But the film continues. The years have passed, you came to the position of counsellor and couldn't be less: you continued with the promises. Also within the framework of the processing of this propaganda Law of demographic impulse, you seemed at least to have a written commitment. They promised two things: first, to register within six months; and second, to make a support plan in less than a year, within a year. I don't know if you're aware, Mrs. Garcia, that next week — within exactly seven days — a year since you approved this Demographic impulse Act, and the balance sheet is 00, zero single-parent family record and zero single-parent family support plan. [[Applause]] And look, this is serious, because in our country there are more than 111,000 single homes; it's 10.44% of our country's total. In 80% are headed by women, and you know that social exclusion data are getting worse in this area, that progresses in feminization of poverty and that more than half is considered to be at risk of social exclusion. Therefore, time rushes and unmet promises are of no use to recognize or support this important part of our country. Therefore, Counsellor: when will they cease to fulfill promises, and when will they fulfill their own mandates and operate on that German record?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u235	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Madam Presas, progressing in the well-being of families, whatever their composition, is one of the main objectives of this German government. And that's exactly why we're making an extra effort to always be pioneers. In view of everyone, there are the measures that exist in Galicia but that do not exist in other communities at the national level, and it is not by chance but it is the result of the effort and commitment of the Galician society, but it is also the result of the effort and commitment of the Greek Government. We were pioneers in implanting freeness in Galician childhood schools for second and next children and we will again be nationally referenced with the total freeness of childhood education throughout Galicia. We have been pioneers in our community for the implementation of children's homes, a 100% free conciliation remedy available to all Galician families living in the Italian countryside. And we have also been pioneers, of course, in approving in this chamber the first -- national -- law of demographic impulse. Specifically — as you said — that law — which, by the way, you remember that your party did not support — revises the concept of a single parent family and also recognizes its special consideration. But besides, he takes two very important measures: on the one hand, the creation of a register of single-parent families in Greece, and on the other hand, the adoption of a plan to support single-parent families, to always improve their attention and also the social coverage of their needs. In order to comply with these two measures, it is necessary to develop the current legislation that regulates precisely this type of family. And we must incorporate the requirements and also the means of accreditation for the recognition of what a single-parent family is and also all of that procedure for issuing and issuing single-parent family certificates. After consulting and complementing a public consultation process with the various single-parent family organizations -- and from here today I want to bring all of them thanks for their collaboration -- we know first-hand what their needs are. Mrs. Presas, today I announce to you that in the coming month of February the first decree that will regulate and believe the single-parent family status will be issued. In this way, Galician society will be able to enrich legislation that is a giant step forward for many homes in our community. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government has a commitment to the Greek families and has a commitment to the single-parent families, so we assume and so we will. Mrs. Presas, we can really get to the bottom of what we're doing in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u237	...and Galicia is moving forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u238	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u239	Mrs. Garcia, with all due respect, you can do a lot of things, because you have an absolute majority and you have little more shame on many occasions, but of course, what you can't do is to take care of your support for single-parent families. It's just that it's been 13 years, 13 years! to make a record. [[Applause]] So one of two: either it's useless or it's a lack of political will, because deep down there's an ideological bias that especially penalises single-parent families by choice. There's no other one. [[Applause]] In any case, we rejoice if we meet that February date, which would be six months after the last meeting they had with the affected collectives, in July, and which would be more than six months late as well. In any case, if so, we will be vigilant in that decree, also to bring near. Let me also take this opportunity because to give thanks to those who really are behind that success, which is the social pressure that collectives like the Galician Single Mothers Association have been doing for many years. For all of them, the recognition and gratitude of the BNG. [[Applause]] And look, we also use it to tell you that the law can read it; it's up to you. In any case, we insist that it is not the only thing to do about single-parent families. And we ask you, for example, two more questions: the first one, to stop discriminating about numerous families — something that they do, for example, at the discounts that you have arbitrated on the highways — and to also fulfill the promises of Mr Feijóo's election campaign and investment speech, for example, by applying already this year 2022 discounts in the IRPF, something that the Red Mother Law itself of 2011 envisaged and that you not only did not meet, but did not want to vote in favour on any occasion of the proposals we have brought from the BNG. You have a lot to do, it's not to suck, and time rushes, because the economic situation gets worse and because we're also playing with a social right that's that recognition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u241	...of this growing reality of the Greek homes and their idiosyncrasy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u242	For the Government's reply, Mrs. García Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u243	Thank you, President. Madam Presas, less bad than here in Galicia the People's Party has an absolute majority, because thanks to that absolute majority Galicia counts with a law of demographic impulse that you voted against. I suppose you know, Mrs. Presas, why they voted against this law, if Mrs. Rodil will surely remind you. [[Applause]] Because it contained the word "family", that word, those families that Galicia will continue to help and we will continue to support; families of all kinds and, of course, all those single-parent families, 42,000 specifically single-parent families who have children under the age of 25. But reality also shows us, as you said, that these families are growing. That's why we want to continue supporting them and also giving them visibility. Today, single-parent families already have more support than ever before in Galicia: priority in access to children's schools and children's homes, priority in educational centres at the Education Council, 50% discount in the camps organised by the Galician Union, reduced rates for these families in our centres, in our spare time residences, and also tax benefits. These families, like the numerous or dependent people in charge, because they have special conditions, also need special protection. As I've already made progress in my first intervention, the public exhibition will come out of the decree it regulates and will believe the single-parent family status. And once this decree has been passed, it will allow us to have more legal security in these families, but it also contains a procedure that unites access to possible benefits that we can bring forward to different public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is moving forward, and Galicia is moving towards more tools than ever before and more resources that improve the lives of all the Greek families and, of course, even single-parent families. We will continue to work tirelessly on the path to make our community the best place to be born and to live, because Galicia is, and must always be, a great family. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-01-26-DSPG067.u244	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business to deal with. End of session.
