ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 17 March 2022, which does not proceed with its reading. He justified the in attendance and the delegation of vote, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, and delegated his vote to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández asks for the floor.]] And without more, Mrs. Rodil, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodil's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u2	Good morning. On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, President, we would like to request from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG to amend the agenda of this plenary to incorporate the presence of the President of the Galician Union in the social and economic situation in which our country finds itself, fruit, among other circumstances, of this brutal price escalation, the impact it has on our country's homes and economic and productive sectors. We believe that the situation is serious enough to urgently change this agenda and to incorporate document 32,178, in which our group requests the presence of the President of the Union, which we are also fortunate to be here today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u3	Okay. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, we will take a look at this question that you have raised. Then the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u4	Good morning. As already stated at the Speaker's Board, we support the request made by the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u5	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u6	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We agree that the situation since we celebrated the Speaker's Board has deteriorated enormously and that we are in an emergency situation. And we believe, therefore, that it is reasonable to admit the modification of the agenda for the presence of the president. And I, since we are going to modify the agenda and taking into account that a Government's appearance is planned in plenary, as well as the control shift to the president, I would suggest that it be taken into account when the Government's appearance was planned. I mean, replacing the agenda with this, understanding that the presence of the president also implies that there is no tomorrow shift of control.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u7	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] No, I mean, just like you said right now, that means we'd be showing up after the debate on the legislative texts and in the turn that's really what it is about the appearances. So this stays like this. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. I just can't hear her. Give a voice to Mrs. Rodil's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u8	It's just that Mr. Puy said he was directly implying... that he was falling, let's say, the control session and it's not true. That may be a group agreement, but the House Rules of Procedure do not in any case provide for automatic replacement. Appearances have nothing to do with the regular control session.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u9	Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u10	I didn't have to drop the other show, it's just to order the debate. The two questions that we are suggesting are replaced by the acceptance of the President's appearance are precisely about the impact on the livestock and the rural world, on the crisis; and the questions are also about the same subject. I therefore believe that, as a proposal by the House to accept the request made by the nationalist group, so that after the debate of the People's Legislative Initiative Act appears, and that, of course, replaces the two government presences that were planned on the agenda, I think it is reasonable, and I think there should be no problem since, I insist, we share that since we celebrate the Speaker's Meeting the situation has deteriorated and that the President has expressed to us that he is willing to attend today even if it is necessary. And even if they want to do so right now, there is no drawback because, indeed, the situation is serious enough for the President to appear in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u11	Well, that sounds good to me. I think the debate then is more or less ordered. Of course, because, otherwise, they would be the legislative texts, the president's appearance; and the questions of tomorrow, of course, are not raised. And then, if it looks like you all, we start because we're still going to have a long debate. And what's the problem? It's all substance, it's a historical fact that this acceptance had taken place. We must, too, at least in the time I've been here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, then we start. Come on, let's go! First point. Debates and votes of the Ditome issued by the Special Non-Permanent Study Commission on Road Safety in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u12	There is a particular vote in favour of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. And for the presentation of the Commission's dictation, Mr. Ramón Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The non-permanent special study on road safety in Galicia was created by the request of the People's Parliamentary Groups of Galicia, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists by agreement of the Bureau, after the hearing of the Speakers' Board at the meeting of 15 September 2020. The committee and its table were set up on 8 October 2020. The operating rules were adopted at the Commission meeting on 16 November 2020 unanimously. Article 1 of the operating rules states that the non-permanent special study on road safety in Galicia is created with the aim of putting in place an institutional instrument in the Welsh Chamber that serves as a forum for study and debate, and offers proposals for solutions to improve road safety in Galicia and reduce the weakness in order to complete the work done in the 9th and 10th legislation. In order to achieve the goal set, the Commission adopted the Work Plan unanimously at its meeting on 18 January 2021. In the first phase of the workplan, related to documentation and appearances, all documentation received in the workplan, as well as documentation provided by the attending persons, is included. It is from this point that 31 working sessions were held in the corresponding commissions of the 9th legislature, in which 72 persons were present. In the 10th legislation, 8 work sessions, in which 14 people appeared. And finally, in the current legislation, a work session, a person attending. In addition, citizen participation, among other mechanisms, was possible through the authorization of a platform within Parliament's website so that citizens could transfer suggestions, concerns and reflections on the matter of this committee. Subsequently, the Commission at its meeting on 22 April 2021 appointed the presentation to draw up the project of the dictatorship composed of the following members: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: Mr José Luis Ferro Iglesias, holder; and Mr Ramon Carballo Paez, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Don Xosé Luís Bará Torres, headline; and Fr Pablo Ríos Santôme, alternate. And by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Ms Patricia Otero Rodríguez, holder; and Ms Paloma Castro Rey, alternate. The panel discussion took place on 22 April 2021, chaired by me as chairman of the Commission, and with the assistance of the rapporteur and the rapporteurs: Mr José Luís Ferro Iglesias, Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres and Ms Patricia Otero Rodríguez. Subsequently, the presentation at the 11 following meetings — taking into account the documentation, reports and appearances, as well as the various proposals made by the parliamentary groups — drew up the draft dictation which it issued on 26 January 2022. At its meeting on 22 February, the Commission, following the debate and vote on the draft opinion, together with the six amendments tabled by the Group of the European Nationalist Bloc, adopted the opinion by 56 votes in favour and 19 abstentions, pursuant to the weighted voting system. The Bureau of the Commission on 10 March agreed to the procedure for the particular vote by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The statement by the committee I am presenting is divided into three parts: the first, of general background; the second, concerning the constitution, composition and meetings of the presentation; and, the third, with proposals for a solution to improve road safety in Galicia and reduce loss; grouped in the following areas: 1, coordination and participation; 2, dissemination, promotion and prevention techniques; 3, training and education proposals; 4, policy proposals; 5, human factor; 6, infrastructure; 7, professional transport companies and agricultural vehicles; 8, victims, accident response; 9, research and management; and, last, the annex on planning, evaluation and follow-up. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this special non-permanent Commission study on road safety in Galicia with its approval, if any, by the plenary session of the Galician Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u14	Thank you, Mr. Carballo. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the particular vote formulated. [[Pause.]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group begins. And for that you have the word of Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today we are discussing the draft proposal drawn up by the Commission's non-permanent study report and on road safety. I would like to remind you that the PSdG has been calling for this committee to be a committee of study and not just a committee of control, as the Popular Parliamentary Group asked in principle. I want to thank the work done by so many and so many colleagues throughout all these legislations because we cannot overlook the fact that this commission was formed in 2013. Therefore, they took part in this final document which we are bringing today's approval, because many and many colleagues from different parliamentary groups participated. But you will allow me, today, on behalf of the PSdG Parliamentary Group, to have a special memory for us because it is not between us, for our colleague Raúl Fernández, who was a member of this study committee. [[Applause]] And thank you, Raúl, for the work done in this commission and which unfortunately, as we all know, has suffered in the first person in your family the disastrous consequences of these accidents of road safety. [[Applause]] So thank you all and all the colleagues who worked on this document. And I also want to personally thank the lawyer Puri for the work she's done and everything she's got us to be able to get this dictation forward; which, as I said, is the fruit of the work of many people, because this commission was set up in 2013. The appearances began in 2014 and the appearances ended in 2021. It is true that in the X legislation, there was little momentum on the part of the People's Parliamentary Group and there were few appearances. But the truth is, I also want to thank the members of the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Ferro and Mr. Bará, for their understanding and their ability to have arrived... because it is true that it was a job with a great deal of consensus. The truth is that I also received a little attention from that affirmative non-voting of the ruling in the Committee on Road Safety by the Nationalist Block of Wales after we were able to reach so many points of meeting. Because it is true that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has submitted more than 50 proposals for this opinion and many of them are included in this final document. I think today is also a very suitable day to bring this dictation to the vote. We must remember that yesterday the reform of the traffic law, which is a rule of state traffic and road safety that looks towards the future, with a safer, more efficient and respectful mobility for all people. A law that adapts to new times and takes one more step forward in improving road safety in Spain. It is true that, by reviewing this traffic law that was put into operation yesterday, we are seeing as many of the recommendations and many of the proposals that are covered by this dictatorship that we are debating today, they are also reflected in that state traffic standard. So we see how our proposals for this dictatorship also go towards a future including new forms of mobility, which we also have in our autonomous community, as it can be, for example, the theme of skates, something that is so in vogue; or I mean the accidents on the way, or the accidents of all those workers who provide their services. Therefore, a document which, as was said, consists of 9 paragraphs, which we expect [...] all administrations which have competence in traffic and in road safety, because the recommendations envisaged in it are taken into account. I also want to ask the Galician Council to be a little more agile in approving that Galician road safety plan. We must remember that Galicia's previous road safety plan was from 2016 to 2020, so we took the whole year 2021 without a new road safety plan in Galicia and what we took from 2022. So this road safety plan had already to be approved by the Galician Council, a document that was entitled Road Safety Plan 2021-2025, that the Galician Union itself by its inaction [...] crucial, which is a very important topic of road safety; therefore, we have already spent more than 14 months without that road safety plan in Galicia and we have asked the Galician Union to be able to have that document. We must also bear in mind that Galicia has already been one of the autonomous communities that has been most delayed in having a road safety plan. Until 2006, we didn't count on a road safety plan. I want to remember that this road safety plan was set up by the two-party Government of Galician Union. As I said, we have put forward more than 50 proposals, many of them have been admitted, agreed, were negotiated with the other parliamentary groups and are included in that statement that we are presenting today. Things like coordination between the different public administrations to continue to advance the reduction of tyrannicalness on the roads of Greece; continuing to pursue activities as they are already being done in other areas, especially in school centres, aimed at promoting responsible conduct on the road to communication, because we believe it is fundamental that you will be early, already in school, if you give it these notions of road safety. We continue to believe that it is necessary in the public media to continue to put these campaigns to raise people's awareness of road users, and also of the need to use and use all the elements that serve to protect our lives and also to protect us in the event of road accidents. Because we were commenting on the only appearance there was in this legislation on this commission that today were very many citizens who didn't use the seat belt. It seems incredible at the time we were, but they told us that so many percent of people who had suffered accidents and had not put on the seatbelt was still very wide. There are proposals in the field of training and education, proposals in the field of legislation, many proposals in the human factor, because here we agree, that the human factor is relevant, is very important when these accidents occur, those distractions to the wheel. We ask that sanctions be increased, for example, by using, for example, the mobile phone, which produces a lot of distraction to the steering wheel. And we see as well as this traffic law that was put into operation yesterday are also contemplated measures in that sense. It's a lot of the measures we're presenting to improve the infrastructure so that these infrastructures are safer. Not only did we ask the Galician Union for it, we also ask the Government of the State for it on roads that are within its competence or also the local authorities on those roads that are within the competence of the local authorities. We also believe that it is essential to continue planning and eliminating all those accident concentration steps that we have detected in our autonomous community, with priority, with timeliness and, of course, with budgeting. We must continue to work in the face of all of us here in Galicia, and we all know the risks we have when we meet animals on our roads; in that sense there are also recommendations. Or something that also affects a lot in our autonomous community, as is the issue of agricultural vehicles; we are unfortunately seeing many times still in the press those accidents that occur with agricultural vehicles. We continue to think that these awareness-raising campaigns, these review campaigns, these campaigns to boost the training and recycling of these professionals, are still needed. We believe very necessary, and so we've been moved by victim associations, articulating mechanisms to give more visibility and voice to the victims, so that they know each other and recognize their rights. We need to review and improve the care and support protocols for victims of traffic accidents and, of course, their families, both at the time of the accident and after the accident. We have to regret that we have not been able to put in this position a proposal that reached unanimity, a proposal by the PSdeG that reached unanimity in Commission 5a, that the Galician Council had coordinated an interinstitutional working table in order to review and improve the care protocols for families in the event of deaths in traffic accidents by some of their members. Proposals for research and management and, of course, also recommendations. We therefore hope that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, these proposals will be taken into account by the various administrations that have competence in the matter, because it is from then on the work of many and many companions; even some of the colleagues who are here today as Members in this House have also had the opportunity to participate in this work as peers along these different legislations. So let's hope that this work doesn't fall into a broken bag and, therefore, that public administrations in the process of legislating and putting rules on the table as they take into account the recommendations of this dictation. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning. The holder of this debate could be, "Without time it wasn't." Without time it was not, because a commission which began as a non-permanent commission, a special commission, became almost permanent commission. So the first thing we have to do — I think — is self-criticism. Self-criticism because the work of this commission began in March 2014 and we are in March 2022. I mean, it's been eight years, nothing more and nothing less than to get this dictate; and I think we're faced with a failure, a narrow failure of this Parliament as to the rhythms of the development of the work, a failure of the government party that presided and had to lead and push this commission; and a failure, too, must be said, we recognize it, of all groups, because we are also part of this delay, of this unjustified delay to take out this dictation. Even though it must also be said that there are commissions that have been even longer without finishing their jobs, such as for example, the boxes, which is also about time for their work to be finished. And this is also the responsibility of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Secondly, I want to make a recognition, I think it's fair, to express gratitude on behalf of the BNG to all the people who participated in the work of this presentation, who participated throughout this whole process and made them close. And I would also like to remind Raúl Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group, who was in the past very active member lawmaking of this committee and who is those people who leave deep footprints. [[Applause]] First of all, by his heel and also by his works, and his works we are now also being aware of them. Thirdly, with regard to the proposal, I would like to highlight the positive working climate in the presentation, both in this case and in the past. The proposal document is a long, extensive, prolific document, which may also appear to be the purchase list, because it has nothing more and nothing less than 117 proposals in 9 areas, and it is true that it collects many approaches formulated by all groups and has reached a high level of agreement in the final proposal. But we also want to make it clear that there are differences, that there are divergences, that there are some discrepancies that may be in some cases of nuance and in other cases of background differences. And that is why we have kept that particular vote precisely to give the debate here, I think it is absolutely democratic to reflect the different views we have, so we make it clear that we have other proposals beyond those that appear in the presentation. Since the BNG, of course, we consider that the text contains useful proposals, proposals of interest which must be taken over by the various governments which have competences; we must take into account in this regard the context, both European and state, and one thing must be recognised: that the European Union is at the forefront of the world as regards road safety policies and the results of these policies. That's undeniable. It is also true that not all countries go at the same pace. The Spanish State has had a very positive development since the beginning of this century, but it is also true that we are in a stagnation phase since 2013, where the numbers of victims, seriously injured people, who are in Galicia, are virtually unchanged every year, as well as deaths. There is therefore room for improvement, we have to do more, and there are countries that are referenced in Europe and the world, such as Norway, Sweden, Ireland, Switzerland, and for example the United Kingdom, which must be our mirror in developing more effective policies in this regard. Policies that have to be aligned with the goals marked by the UN and WHO by 2030 and 2050. And these proposals that are collected in this presentation must also be taken into account by the German Government. First of all, in its general mobility policy, and beyond mobility, because this is an absolutely cross-cutting issue, which is a policy that we can describe as deslaving, as fragmentary, as partial, which is practically focused exclusively on interurban pathways and has an excessively motorized view of the issue of mobility. And this has to change it radically. They must also be taken into account in the new road safety plan, which has actually expired since 2020; we are in March 2022 and we have not been planning since 2020. This reflects at least a certain disillusionment, a certain passivity on the part of the Government; we know that they are now centered on the action of government because they are distracted with other concerns; they are there with the transfer to Madrid. But you have to focus, you have to rule, you have to work, you have to get to work, you can't postpone these important issues. And with respect, by the way, to that plan, we want to make public here a warning that we think it's very important because you can't cheat alone, you can't fake the figures. And you in that document say that the number of fatal victims of the year 2020 is 75, when that's been known since July last year, that the actual number of dead Immelga data to 30 days, which is how to count, is 104. And you did an artimagina here to try to match the figures and give them the results of the targets by 2020, but the reality is that they didn't meet them, that we are, when we had to be in 34 victims per million, we're in 48 victims per million, people dead. So you can't falsify reality like that. Look, with regard to the debate, at some issues that also have to do with our particular vote: First, we have to take into account the seriousness of this problem, there can be no relaxation, there can be no conformisms, there can be no less triumphalism. I very much agree with the approaches and statements and with the concern that the Director General of Traffic, Pérez Navarro, shows in this regard that he must be recognized by his bravery, his courage and his impulse to lead politics in Spain, in the Spanish state, policies that have yielded results. But, I mean, now we're in a stagnation phase. It seems positive to us, because it was also a proposal to introduce the concept of road violence, because it's a reality, we have to talk about road violence, we have to point out a percentage of users of the pathways that are genuine kamikazes, real homicides, and that's why we have to banish them from the public roads. We also need to talk about the costs of traffic accidents, as STOP Accidents is calling us attention. As far as governance is concerned, we have to go to comprehensive policies where all administrations are involved and where there is a high level of social participation, and we have to have all the competences from Galicia. That's why we too in that particular vote pretend to have the need for the transfer of traffic and road safety; we insist again on that, which was vetoed by the People's Party. We also have to talk about the subjective perception of road safety, not just the figures, not just the statistics. When we talk about subjective perception, we're talking about many people who use the roads that are not the drivers who live around the roads and who feel their lives threatened every time they have to get around a road or who have to cross a road, especially the most vulnerable people. We need to focus more on the urban environment. Look, I wanted to talk to you about this from a place that I'm sure you all know, which is this, that we have right here outside of Parliament, this pedestrian step that's on the street of Horreo. This is an example of how we don't have to treat public spaces; we're sure we're all right at crossing this pedestrian step. It is therefore essential to act in public space, to act on urban roads and to change the functioning of urban mobility. And that can be done, it has already been achieved in many European cities, such as Oslo, like Helsinki, which are references, Nordic cities that have achieved zero deaths in urban areas, cities. But we also have our Nordic city in Galicia and Spain, we have the city of Pontevedra, which is an international reference to public space care policies, mobility and policies that are preventing serious injuries and people killed on the roads. [[Applause]] So, there are publications, in addition, I've already handed this publication to the advisor in one of his appearances: Basic Guide to Public Spaces and Friendly Mobility, and the Board has to focus on this task, it has to follow the witness of Pontevedra, it has to lead, it can't disengage itself from these issues, because the German Government, it has to be put in front of these issues. And finally, I want to refer to the question of the necessity of introducing the gender perspective into the policies of mobility and road safety, and there is also in the particular vote a reference in this regard. And I want to begin, besides now, by making a firm condemnation of the statements made by the chief of police in Pontevedra, which are absolutely intolerable when he said in a public act by the police that many women would already like to be raped by the National Police. This is absolutely intolerable, this person has already been terminated from his post, but it has been stopped because the news has been published, not by his statements, which were pronounced in a public act of the National Police on March 11th. Studies have to be done on the issue of road safety with the perspective of gender, for example, to banish something that may seem secondary but which is very important: the absolutely machist signification of public spaces and road safety; as pawns appear, especially when they are in active attitudes, women always as companions, in secondary positions, and also driving men's images always appear. This should already be part of the past, pass this page of Machism that is also present in urban signage. And to speak, as does this study that the Basque Government has done, of the different conducts that men and women have when they are drivers, which does not have to do with these simplistic debates either drive better or worse, at the end... what this study says among other things is that there are significant differences in understanding what constitutes good conduct; while most women prioritize social elements such as caution, cooperative conduct and empathy,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u19	... an important part of the boys focuses on personal elements such as self-control or how the journey time or reaching the destination point as soon as possible. Sure, and there's one of the big problems, which is speed. Or the prosecutor's studies that indicate that there is a percentage of drivers that are real potential homicides and the consequences that this is having and the need to attack this that some analysts also consider to be a toll of machismo, a toll of the behaviors of hexemonic masculinity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u21	In this sense, allow me, Mr. President, to refer here also to a reference to the violent, violent masculine murder that recently took place, this weekend in Barro, and our support to Jennifer's victim's family, a 29-year-old girl who had all her life ahead of her and for living. [[Applause]] So, Mr. President, we have to go to a profound model change, we have to have that comprehensive vision, there is still a lot to go on, and we have a great responsibility to make possible other mobility and security policies, which we have to achieve is saving lives, saving hundreds, thousands of lives for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u22	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to stress the fact that the Commission is not a special permanent study on road safety in Galicia, a policy drawn up by all the political forces represented in this Parliament and, above all, to value our agreements and understandings, which I would like to thank directly to Mr Bará and Mrs Otero. We had a great consensus. There are matters left in the inkkeeper, of course, but they remain for you, for your groups, and they are for my group as well; we all try to yield to bring forward a very broad document and a document that was out of all so that I had, as I did not, no vote against the commission. Those questions that remain in the inkkeeper, which remain pending, we will present them by other drivers in the relevant committees, both you and our group. I think we all produce a good document, based on the appearances of many experts and collectives related in one way or another to road safety. Partly inherited work, as you remembered in your speeches, inherited from both previous legislation. That's why we must extend, as you have done, our thanks also to the colleagues who started and have been through this work since 2014. The appearances were many: traffic officers, local police, provincial traffic officers, autoschools, insurance agencies, workshops, Infrastructure Council, Cycling Federation, councils, deputies, agricultural unions, Red Cross, STOP Accidents, College of Engineers, College of Physicians, Journalists, Motorcycles Platform, Psychotechnical Centres, Merchandise Carriers, Travelers' Transporters' Associations, Hunters' Associations, Associations of the Way of Santiago and many more that are not mentioned. All these appearances make it clear is that road safety is cross-sectional and touches many elements of our environment, probably many more than we would discover with a simple and superficial analysis. It is therefore a consensus document and nothing improvised. Among all of us we have come to important conclusions and we have made proposals grouped in different thematic areas, already mentioned by you and in the presentation of the chairman of the committee. In addition, our proposals have already been evaluated by the infrastructure counsellor in developing the new road safety plan 2022-2025, which is true that it has been delayed, but they also wanted to take into account our dictates of this commission after so many years of working on it. That new plan is about to see the light. Certainly, men are social beings by nature, so we must learn to live in society. This is a recurring theme throughout mankind's history, but sometimes our behavior is far from sociability, civicism, deference and courtesy, and we can easily express our selfishness and self-centeredness. That's what philosopher Immanuel Kant defined perfection as "the insocial human sociability." The public road is an inevitable place of socialization, a space where the interests of every citizen do not always coincide. Road education in a broad sense seeks to achieve adequate road behaviour that materialises in a proper use and enjoys public roads. Vial behavior is more a facet of citizen behavior. Therefore, in road safety, as in many areas of society, we must educate in coexistence and for citizenship. Thanks to road training, all of us here are able to acquire some knowledge, attitudes and skills so we can drive a vehicle on public roads. But one thing is training and another is lifelong education. This is a much broader concept, because it not only covers knowledge of standards, but also seeks to promote positive attitudes in the flow of trafficking. Road safety is part of road education, so we can define road safety as non-production of traffic accidents. The fundamental thing would be to raise awareness of the problem of traffic accidents, in the same way and at the same level as the work that is developing in many of our societies. I put, for example, and hoping not to be misinterpreted, the involvement in the collection of garbage, the concern for climate change, gender-based violence, equality, accessibility, wars, suicides or even smoking. Gaining that awareness in traffic is also everyone's responsibility, to the same extent as the other areas I have just mentioned; responsibility of all public administrations, from central government, autonomics, councils, deputies, private companies, educational institutions, families as well; ultimately, of all society. Many steps have already been taken, thank God, but there is still much way to go. Since the implementation of the permit by points on June 1, 2006 — soon to be sixteen — and the various amendments and road safety laws, just as Mrs Otero reminded us, yesterday came into force on the last day adopted by the Congress of Deputies, traffic accidents and their consequences have been reduced in an important and significant way. Still, World Health Organization forecasts that traumatisms caused by traffic accidents occur in the fifth place by 2030, among the factors contributing to the worldwide burden of trauma. The deaths caused by trafficking are many potential years of life lost due to premature death based on life expectancy; and traumas caused by traffic accidents are also years of disability that include the years of life lost by some disability, poor health, physical or psychological consequences after traffic accidents. According to WHO, by 2030, traffic accident traumas are the third reason for years of life conditioned by a disability. We are therefore still facing an important problem, not only for today's society, but with full probability for future generations. During the year 2020 in the middle of the pandemic, which led to the drastic drop in traffic reduction, in Spain 1,370 people were killed and 6,681 had to be hospitalized as a result of an accident. In Galicia, fatal victims of traffic accidents in percentages were 73% men and 27% women. Therefore, they are led to think that women's conduct is much better than men's. And 33% of the deceased were vulnerable people, i.e. children, pawns, cyclists and drivers. Actually, we're talking about the best numbers since you have records. Development has clearly declined for many years, since 1989. All the corrective measures helped to get this data. Even so, despite the positive trend, we must not forget that these numbers are not just figures, they refer to people's lives. And so the only positive figure should be zero. In addition to the drama and suffering that conceal the figures, we cannot ignore the economic impact of traffic accidents; and I just want to give a data, which gives, which collects the Directorate General for Traffic: the annual expenditure in Spain to alleviate the consequences of traffic accidents are approximately EUR 10.300 million; for hospitalizations, accident management costs, injuries transfer, personal expenses, social costs for loss of productivity, compensation, repair of vehicles, etc. We must also point out that traffic accidents affect to a large extent the most vulnerable population, the children, the adolescents, the young people and the elderly, which produce important sequels that often accompany them throughout the rest of their lives. Despite all this, many drivers seem or do not seem to be aware of these serious social consequences and the need for our personal involvement to avoid accidents. This low awareness of drivers may be due to the fact that the accident is regarded as a random phenomenon, such as a random, uncontrollable event, the fruit of fate and chance, and therefore as something inevitable. But this conception and this belief about traffic accidents is totally false: behind each accident are many factors and circumstances that cause the event. For my part, that's all. To take advantage of schoolchildren here, I think road safety has to start from there, from education, from the very young, because that's the only way we can achieve that awareness and awareness about this important and so worrying issue for Galician society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u24	Thank you, Mr. Iron. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For those schoolchildren you see there are 5th primary students of the Sacred Heart Center of Lugo, who today visit us and whom we welcome to this Parliament and also to the guests we have in the gallery of Parliament. And now we are in the turn of the parliamentary groups to define ourselves on the particular vote made or on the replication turn. In this case it is up to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u25	Thank you, President. For on my first occasion, we had no opportunity to be heard by all these students, and I agree with what the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Ferro, who has been fundamental since then, you will be speeding up awareness and awareness of road education. And I would also say in my first point that there are several of the proposals that we have included in the various parliamentary groups in this statement that we are debating today, and that I hope it will come out unanimously. The fact is that I also agree with the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group that this document is a consensus document in which, in order to reach agreement, we all had to put aside some of our proposals, which is true that we have other parliamentary channels to carry them forward, but also the PSdEG Parliamentary Group because it had to leave some of its proposals aside. But we believe that the fundamental, the priority and the most necessary and pressing, because it is collected in that statement, in these 117 measures, that it is true that it is a document with complete consensus on the part of the three parliamentary groups. In addition, we will have occasion, because we have also introduced it in that statement, in an annex entitled Planning, Evaluation and Follow-up, because we will have the opportunity to coincide with the half of the vigil of that road safety plan approved by the Council of Galicia, because we will have the occasion in that half of the vigil of that plan to analyse and see also the degree of development and compliance with that plan, as well as the proposals which are now included in this statement by this Security Commission, the road safety study coming out of the Parliament of Galicia. So we're going to maintain our position. Of course we're going to vote in favour of the dictatorship. We are going to abstain from that particular vote put forward by the Galego Nationalist Block, which we understand is that there are other parliamentary channels to carry it forward, but we have also done this position in the Commission and we have now kept it in the plenary. I come back, I end up as my intervention began, hoping that this hard work of many companions and colleagues will reflect on the competent public administrations in the field of road safety, that take them into account, of course, because the Council of Galicia, also the Central Government and the local authorities. Of course, public administrations have a lot of work ahead of them, because, if it's true that data on road sinality has been improved, there's still a lot to go on, but of course we as road users also have a lot to say with our attitude to reduce this road sinality. For my part nothing else and, of course, thank you again for the work of all of us and all the comrades who participated in this dictation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u27	Thank you, President. And our welcome also to the student present in the gallery to hear this debate, which I think has a lot to do with their lives and their future. If we had any doubts about the opportunity to present this particular vote, we dissipate it with this debate because we believe that certain issues must be put in place and, of course, we have an important basis for agreement, but we also have differences and have to form here. And one of the questions we want to make is that it's not true that they said here repeatedly about the favorable and decreasing evolution of both accidents and victims, because the statistics don't say that, the statistics, I have them here, appear in the draft of the Galician Road Safety Plan, saying that since 2013 there has been a stabilization of both the number of accidents and the number of people seriously injured and the number of fatal victims. You see, the serious wounds, which, as you said, have very important sequelae and condition people's lives forever, and enormous costs, range from 650 to 700 every year since 2013. So positive evolution, so positive is not being. And the deaths at 30 days are over 100 every year since 2013. They went down abruptly until 2011 and 2012 but then remained stable at 132, 139, 123, 141, 144, 127, and last year, which was a completely atypical year, it cannot be used as a reference, with 104 victims because we know that for several months there was a confinement and has drastically reduced motorized mobility. So it can't be a year taken as a reference. So this should lead us to have a continuous alert, alarm, call, non-conformist messages, messages and campaigns and speeches that draw the attention of the entire population, especially the users of the roads, to the seriousness of this situation. On the need to make comprehensive policies not only centered on road safety, speed, human causes, but above all on the whole set of mobility and the whole set of public space. And here we draw attention to that public space where more accidents and victims are happening, which are urban spaces, which are cities; but not just cities, urban areas. Three-quarters of the population of Galicia live in urban areas, and that's where the greatest risk, the largest number of accidents, the largest number of victims is at present. And there are municipalities, as I said, like Pontevedra's one that managed to address this problem, that got zero victims and an almost insignificant number of serious victims. And how do you do that? Basically with two measures, I mean urban areas. The first, which has to do with the transformation of public space, people first, into public spaces, reduction of motor traffic, not that wrong measure that is trying to implement the central government of low-emission zones, which is a mistake, restricting the access of cars of all kinds of vehicles to public space, especially in the central areas of towns and cities. And secondly, by reducing the speed, there's nothing else left. And we have to take physical measures if it's necessary to reduce speed because that means, even if there's trouble, saving lives, which is the top priority. And I, when we had this debate, I was a mobility conceler in Pontevedra and there were complaints because we installed this which is called the lobes, which are annoying to the vehicles, always said that it was better that an ambulance was there to pick up a person who was the victim of a slight accident than a car would kill him to pick up a fatal victim. So these measures are effective, and they save lives, and we must apply them courageously and courageously. Look, with regard to the particular vote, I will read some of the proposals that we have included to give the debate here and for them to be taken into account. Of course, we're going to keep them in other debates, but we also want to bring it here: 1. Create an annual study and debate forum on road mobility and safety. We think it's a constructive and positive proposal. 2. To create a database of experiences and good practices in the field of mobility. 3. To study the creation of a badge for safe cities and villages, to also encourage cities to move forward in this way. 4. Create a network of Galician people with friendly mobility and road safety. 5. To promote coordination and cooperation between administrations. 6. To demand the transfer of road traffic and safety skills to Galicia, as I have said, and the creation of the Galician police, because the more competences we have in this area will be more coordination and wider policy. We also have a specific paragraph with measures in the field of education and training: - Introduction of road safety contents in the school curriculum. This seems particularly relevant to us because we have to do it systematically, cross-sectionally and in an integral way. It may not be that it depends on the initiative of each centre or teacher or on a particular direction; it must be a public policy, integral and transversal which must not only be focused on road safety, but on mobility and management of public space as safe spaces; for example, for students to be involved in the development of mobility plans for their villages and also in the transformation of the public space around their centres, which often, and sure that they live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u29	...each day the students and students who are here, are hostile spaces, are unsafe spaces, are places where there are risks. These spaces need to be changed just as in the entire environment of public equipment. To promote mobility regulatory orders, finally, proposals such as — for example, President — to create a public training programme on sustainable mobility, by the way, as it is already doing another institution that is referring to Galicia in this matter, which is the Deputy of Pontevedra with its Agora programme, which is working in this direction and which is also an experience that the Galician Union can copy to be a referent at European and global level...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u31	...in these advanced policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u32	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u33	Thank you very much, President, again. I am sure that all of our conclusions and proposals for this measure will be very effective if we are going to carry them out and put them into practice. That's why we'll follow up on their implementation and application, to improve the road safety of our Galician community. Look, the last National Monitoring Centre for Road Safety, developed by the Directorate-General for Traffic, dependent on the Ministry of the Interior, highlights very important data. It is an observatory held a few months ago, in August 2021, and refers to the figures of the previous year, of the year 2020, which are not traffic-related figures for that they are valid regardless of the pandemic. And it says the factors that most intervene and compete in accidents with fatal victims, with deaths, in this year 2020 were 31% by distracted and unattended driving; in 25% by inadequate speed; and 27% by consuming alcohol. All of this adds up to 83% of the fatal victim accidents that have a direct influence on the human factor, on the driver. I believe it and I keep saying it, and so I defended it in the commission before my colleagues many times, that this is the real problem. Since 2016 distractions have been the first cause of fatal accidents. Twenty-five percent of the fatalities in traffic accidents today, in the 21st century, are still not wearing the seat belt. Didn't you know I had to take it?; of course they knew, we all know that we have to use the safety belt. But what they weren't aware, they didn't get a sense of the risk they were not supposed to take the seatbelt. That's why I think the need is to raise awareness, raise awareness, and that can be achieved through self-schooling in a face-to-face way, I think it's an essential and necessary element. The relationship between the student and the teacher, the direct relationship, I think it's unreplaceable. New technologies allow us to do home traffic tests and prevent the student from going there and learn the same knowledge to try to overcome the theoretical examination of traffic. But where is the relationship with the teacher, who can, the only one who can convey that awareness about the importance of social security? My fellow committee members, Mr Bará and Mrs Otero, already know from my complaint to the self-school sector, because I sincerely believe that they are important road security agents, who have direct contact with our young people and who may be taking advantage of the opportunity to involve them even more in the interests of road safety, because I am a very important network that is already established throughout the whole territory, in all corners of Galicia and Spain, and is already there, formed and built. The importance of what I have just exposed is clearly seen when analyzing the program that re-educational points permit, which is mandatory and presental. Since the establishment of a point permit, 2006 that was named before, 850,000 drivers have gone through a point recovery course. Of these 850,000, there were only 1,850 incidents. Success rate: 99.8%, something will have to do with it. I think these awareness and awareness programs are very necessary. I believe that we must also do something here in the Galician Parliament to raise awareness of this issue and to make it more visible; in fact, we are the only community in all of Spain that has now, today, a commission on road safety. How would you be left if I told you that tonight, when we're already in our home for dinner or bed, if we add the kilometers of everyone we're here, the staff of the House and all the Members, we walk quietly today over 10,000 kilometers? The distance that separates Santiago from Compostela from the capital of Argentina, from Bos Aires, which cannot be carried out by vehicle. For them to see the importance of road driving in companies and also in this Parliament. Because people are the ones we've decided and often we've made the wrong decision. We decided to circle over the speed limits, we decided circular after drinking alcohol, the pawns sometimes decide to cross by or near a pedestrian, or away from it, etc. I think this is something that depends on us and I would just like to see this committee that ends today after the adoption of this dictame serve so that among all of us we can visualize this problem of road safety in Galicia because we can only do this and we will be able to improve it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u34	Thank you, Mr. Iron. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Special non-permanent Study Commission on Road Safety in Galicia We begin by voting on the particular vote put forward by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u35	And we are now voting on the Commission's opinion on road safety in Galicia. We vote. Voting The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u36	We move on to the second item on the agenda. I ask the vice president if you can accompany the person who will make the request here in the gallery. Debate on the Proposal for a Law of the People's Initiative for a Mental Health Act of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u37	For the presentation of the proposed law by the person designated by the sponsoring commission, you have the floor, for a time of 15 minutes, Ms. Ana Lucia González Novas, who will then be able to remain on the scene after her intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u38	Good morning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good morning. I am Ana González, president of the Salma Foundation and promoter of this ILP for a Galician Mental Health Act. I am a daughter, sister and mother of people with a serious mental health problem. I don't know if any of the people present have a mental health problem. Statistics say yes. I don't know if anyone here has a family member with schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder; or a friend who tried to commit suicide; or a workmate who takes time with a depression. I don't know if any of the people present have any son or daughter with some eating disorder or with autism, or with a deficit of attention. I don't know if anyone here has a mother or father with dementia, a nephew or a daughter or a son of a relative with serious behavioural problems or drug involvement. The figures say yes, you're there. And I don't know if they know how to help you with the public resources that we currently have, because I don't. We're not here to look for guilty, we haven't been at that point in a long time, believe us. We are here to find solutions and solutions start by recognizing that there is a problem, and by knowing how to dimension that problem. And in my mental health experience the problems that are not being cared for are worse. Specialized mental health services are not accessible. More than 43 per cent of people with severe disorders did not use any type of health care; nor did more than 72 per cent of people with moderate disorders. Not enough. The waiting lists for a first appointment with the psychiatrist exceeds from 3 to 4 months, sometimes more. And the optional attention time does not exceed 15 minutes. It is impossible to make a correct diagnosis and ensure efficient therapeutic continuity with these waiting and consultation times. Those who do not have the resources to pay the 150-200 euros per consultation of the psychiatrist or 60 of the psychologist are exposed to their illness being aggravated for not being treated on time. This creates several problems. Social exclusion and marginalization. Many unattended or poorly treated mental health problems often result in other problems such as alcoholism, drug use or isolation and community disconnection, which in turn generate more social problems. They also lead to difficulties in finding a stable job for people who have this problem and their family environments, when they have to make their work hours compatible with care. Inclusion must be done in origin, not allowing vulnerability situations to leave people out of the system. Second, the chronication of pathologies and drug use. The rate of chronic depression in Galicia is twice as high as in the rest of the State. The lack of accessibility to care resources is being supplied with drugs and comprehensive approach is being neglected from a psychosocial perspective necessary for mental illnesses. In Galicia the consumption of antidepressants and stimulants is 71% higher than the state average. And we are the autonomous community with greater consumption of tranquilizers, relaxing and sleepers. And these figures are already before the pandemic. We've been dragging structural deficits for decades. Third, dependency. The pathologies are chronicled and aggravated by the lack of adequate care and end up in large units that affect society as a whole, requiring more resources and permanent care that often fall within the family environment. People who are dependent on mental health problems are mostly women and most live in rural areas. This voluntary care structure is going to collapse with demographic change, because there are fewer mothers, sisters and daughters who can and are willing to give up working life to take over their dependent families. That is why it is necessary to professionalize care. An efficient and sufficient network of professional and continuous care needs to be established. And finally, death. Galicia heads with Asturias the suicide rate in Spain and the number of people who die due to mental health causes is 50% higher than the state average. Behind these figures are hidden problems and failures in the system in which we have to start working urgently. That's why we're here, to warn you that the problem wasn't solved alone. Changes are needed to reverse the current situation, and these changes begin to recognize its gravity and the severity of its consequences, especially if we are responding to the change in the population pyramid. These changes are fundamental to enabling the development of society as a whole. Unsolved mental health problems occur every year, healthy years, talents and opportunities of many Galicians and Galicians, and generate much suffering and drag new options to be a better society at the human, social and economic level. The changes that we need require of you, of all, the highest levels of commitment to the long term, to future generations. People with dependent relatives have learned by force to think only about the future, what will happen tomorrow when I am not. We are not here to seek guilty, but solutions, and that is why this popular legislative initiative has emerged, because mental health plans have not reached to meet our needs. They have left and continue to leave many people behind and outside the system; no stable and long-term solutions have been given because of a lack of lasting commitment. Many affected persons and families are still in a state of disengagement. We need legal and budgetary certainty that does not have the plans and that clearly sets out the obligations and responsibilities of the public administration. And it is that even if the current Plan 2021-2024 came to 100 per cent, they would not even be meeting the goals marked by the Union itself as urgent and necessary about 30 years ago. In 2025 we would have eleven mental health units less than expected in 1997, as well as eleven day-to-day hospitals less, five mental health units less infantojuvenil, nine alcoholism units and other addictions less, three psychiatric units less. We would also have about 24 beds less in acute psychiatric hospitalization units than recommended in 1987. And they would still be missing beds in the infanto-young acute units, because, despite the promise and budgeted 20 beds in 2006, today we only have 7. And the new plan does not specify how many beds there will be in the Cunqueiro Alvaro. The press talks about 6 rooms that could be double; that is, we would still not reach 20 beds 15 years later. Finally, we would continue in red numbers, we would continue in precarious conditions. We have obtained more than 17,000 signatures during the time of pandemics and restrictions by Covid, and without having a system that allows the collection of digital signatures. We have spoken directly to thousands of people, organized debates throughout Galicia; meetings with associations, representatives of the local, provincial and autonomous administration, and with specialists and professionals of all specialities. Never before had a popular legislative initiative had there been the collaboration of so many fedatarians and fedatarians. With the collection of signatures in all these conversations we have found that civil society is conscious and convinced, much more than you think. Let's be clear, the level of demand has risen. We're here to let you know. What has been done so far is not enough, it is not enough. This is what we have been told, what we have learned, and what we want to pass on to them. There is no health without mental health, and mental health is a public health issue, and it is up to the Public Administration to ensure its good management, and it should not depend on the voluntary efforts of family members and professionals, nor on the suffering capacity of the affected. One of the main bottlenecks has to do with the operation in static departments of the Administration. Interdisciplinary, interdepartmental work should be consolidated. The Health, Social Policy and Education Councils should be coordinated and work together for prevention, assistance and integration. There should be stable mechanisms that allow for the psychosocial and not strictly health-care approach that requires mental illness. We must focus on prevention. Half of mental disorders occur before the age of 14 and about 75% before the age of 18. It is essential and urgent to have specialists in childcare and to provide the necessary resources to enable our boys and girls to have a future and not be taken away from society because they do not receive the attention they need. Today, children aged 13, 14 and 15 are entering acute units for adults, and this is very serious. We need to ensure that minors are educated and trained with some mental health problems. We need to train primary care pediatricians and teachers to know how to detect and channel in time the problems that occur in the classrooms. We need to give them more resources so that they can take care of our children as they deserve, rather than drowning them with protocols and bureaucracy that ultimately do not crystallize in the early and effective care of minors. Care needs to be professionalized, a sufficient network and housing infrastructure, because serious cases are being forgotten. The solution is not to close centres without more, it is to offer more humane alternatives adapted to the diversity of cases, for those who need more support in their recovery and in their socio-laboral integration. Services cannot be eliminated because they are deficient, and they cannot offer their users any more humane and more adapted residential alternatives to technologies and care of the 21st century. Mental health must be effectively integrated into primary care, mental health must be accessible, and the best way is to bring attention to health centres, to the closest and most everyday environment in which the person usually finds the care he needs. It is also in that environment in which it is natural to have a health problem, even if it is mental, thus fighting against stigma. This is already happening, since one out of three consultations in primary care have to do with mental health. However, family doctors do not have the time or specific training needed to address these problems. There is a need to increase the ratios of professionals dedicated to mental health. Although the 241 new professionals provided for in the new plan were incorporated, we would continue below those provided for by the Union itself as necessary in 1997. Interdepartmental commissions should also be set up to promote the coordination of professionals in different areas, from family medicine to specialized care, through social and integration services and the educational community. We remain very far from the parameters and ways of functioning from other European communities and countries, and mental health care remains insufficient. It is essential to implement control mechanisms, quality of service, continuous evaluation to detect problems and propose solutions that will enable the progressive improvement of the system, both health and care. There must be a continuous and objective periodic assessment, which is outside the scope of political interests, to determine whether or not the objectives of the plans and programmes are being met, and to propose solutions to problems that are not being addressed. And I'm done. We with the ILP, with better or worse success, have tried to reflect all these issues. If it is not us, others will be later; if it is not this law, it will be another; let us hope that even better, later. But, as the current evidence shows and as the figures show, it is not something that is going to be ignored. Civil society, ultimately, its voters, is waiting for an effective and lasting response to this situation. Galicians and Galicians are a resilient people with a great capacity for work and sacrifice and we deserve the best from political managers and managers. For our part, we are aware and convinced that a serious and lasting commitment to mental health is essential. That's what we expect from all of you. We do not want or need any more empty promises, no more broken commitments, no more unfulfilled plans. We want a law that guarantees our right to socio-health care in mental health. Thank you very much for hearing us, I hope you've also heard us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u39	Thank you, Mrs. González Novás. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u40	Good morning to all and to all. Counselor. Hello to Ana, people who accompany us from the rostrum, whom I have talked to on numerous occasions. I don't see David, but he's probably following us, too. There's David, good morning. There's a problem, I think it was probably, if I may, Ana, to introduce myself to her intervention, the most significant phrase: "We have a problem." A problem that politics has not been able to solve and a problem that politics will not be able to hide, and this is a reality. There's a problem not to talk too much about it. We've been able to solve it if we don't put the right means. We have a problem in Galicia, from our point of view, it's a problem on two sides. First, there's a resource problem and second, there's a model problem; we need more, but we need better. There is a problem of recourse because we have, are or are on the sad podium of the autonomous communities of Spain with the worst ratio of professionals, not now, but cumulatively throughout every year. In all categories, in psychiatry, in clinical psychology, in nurses who specialize in mental health. There is an agreement in this Parliament, promoted by the Socialist Party in 2021, which was committed and which the Government, the People's Party, has signed to convene 120 new squares for last year. He failed, called less, no one gave any explanation. We spoke here of the incorporation of mental health into primary care, which we have been defending, not as a single primary system, but as a connection of mental health service to primary. The only resource contribution is an average clinical psychologist per 400,000 inhabitants. Not enough. There's a model problem, there's a problem about whether we or we want or we know what we have to do about concentrating resources, especially those that are for hospitalization or hospitalization units, in large and unique spaces, as we now practically have Conxo, or we have to atomize or spread into smaller centers, closer also to the reality and context of people, to the social context of people. There is an agreement in this Parliament, in which I mentioned 2021, about improvements in the center of Conxo; there are three evaluations followed by the same public mechanism, the Ombudsman of the People, which says there is no one doing what to do. And professionals deserve to be given the resources. There is agreement in this Parliament on the incorporation of units, the creation of new infant-juvenile hospitalization units, announced, announced; the reality is that it is not real. And, therefore, what we need is that we pass on as if we were told from words to facts. Because all of this, it results in a key issue, that we are one of the autonomous communities with the greatest consumption of psychopharmaceuticals, we have lost, in addition, therapeutic capacity in other ways but are positive. We have one of the worst suicide rates in Spain in a sad competition with Asturias, constantly. We have a very clear increase in cases diagnosed in adolescence and youth. And we have, worst of all, tremendous inaccessibility in the system. Today's not real the right of a Welshman or a Galician to mental health, it's not real. Because if a Greek or Galician needs to be cared for by a psychologist or psychologist — by putting that case — we would all think that we are talking about a private psychologist or psychologist, because it is unreal, impossible and absolutely inaccessible to have mental health treatment in the Galician public system with the means of care, with the delays and with the inefficiency of resources that exist; despite having great professionals it is impossible to do so with those expectations. Mental health in Galicia today is not a real right, it is not. [[Applause]] There's good things, good things happen. Today we live a greater visibility of mental health problems; it's not because of politics, it's because of a society that makes them visible, well-known people who expose them, who give them knowledge, who try to convey some normality within the situation, who try to convey what may happen, that reality is there. Initiatives like this manage to transfer the need for us to understand that visibility is also an important element. The politics didn't, the politics didn't. So what we should learn is also knowing what mistakes were made. Mental health has been and we've seen it defending for some time and, despite that, I think we've received some pretty negative ratings or comments. She was always the little, forgotten sister of the rest of the health system, for various reasons, but she was, probably still being. The citizenry is pulling out of politics to get out of that situation, but there are still problems. Is the solution a new law? You know the commission and you know the team that you've been working on this is that our position is not to be convinced that the law itself is the fabulous solution we need. It's not a rights framework problem. It's never going to be a problem, probably, but it's not a matter of law, it's not basically a matter of regulatory framework. The problem is not in the way it regulates, the problem is in the way it governs. The regulatory framework offers enormous opportunities to develop real and effective mental health policies that respond to the real problems of citizenship. It is not done because it is not intended, but there is a regulatory framework. We believe, moreover, that the system would be or would fall into a slight difficulty in managing if we incorporate a specific law on mental health, which would have positive things, which would have something negative, or might have them, for example, stigmatize; for example, to dismember the mental health of the rest of the system when we need integral, because today it is even physically separated, which is a proposal that we have been defending for many years, that mental health services are incorporated into where the rest of the health services are, but they are remote, in ghettos. In fact, some of them, the Galician Union, neither assumes them as health services, leaves in the hands of the municipalities some kinds of services that are treated with health professionals because they don't even assume them as their own. That's how we got there. And we defend that integration. And, therefore, to legislate about it, it could dismember. And we think you can lose efficiency because of the difficulty after combining two services that are regulated by different laws. As an instrument we have some doubts. It has some advantages: focus, relevance, evidence of a problem, and above all, it's looking for a solution. Of course, that's an advantage, looking for a solution to this mechanism. So we have some reservations that law as such, as legal format, is the way. What we have no doubt about is that this call for attention means that citizenship is understanding that there is a problem; that those who have the responsibility to exercise everything they know to seek solutions are not doing it; that this is a problem that will not appear and disappear easily, but that it will never disappear, but will increase; and we also see that citizenship often goes before governments in the needs they detect. This may be a space where we really have the clearest voice. Why? Because we had to get here to show what others have been saying for many years with little success — some fault — to get to the point where we need to demand more resources and rethink our model is not a floral game of parliamentary rhetoric, it is an urgent necessity. And so, that's really an advantage that this initiative has, that we believe that, in addition, what's put on the table is a problem that we weren't knowing from politics, and I assume in the first person, too, that we're in the safe opposition, that if we can't get a change, we'll also be part of the culprits. But we do believe, indisputably, that those who rule have their primary responsibility. This law that brings here is the evidence of a problem we are not knowing how to solve. The law wouldn't be our first solution, it wouldn't be our instrument, but the analysis and the reality is our motivation. We're not going to oppose each other, if this is the mechanism we've decided on among all of us. For us the mechanism — we say — is not optimal, but it is not the main thing, the main thing is to solve the situation. And so we're not going to be opposed to the mechanism, we couldn't either, it wouldn't make sense. What if we invite the People's Party to decide, has its most legitimate, exercises it. Decide how we want to deal with this situation: by this law, we accept it, we work it out, we improve it as much as possible, we combine these conversations with the society that is out there, with all the mobilization that this commission has just produced. We use this mechanism if they decide. If you decide not to use this one, let's use another one. What we can't stop and we can't assume is that we don't use this mechanism but if you tell us everything's okay and they're already working, because reality is different. We can hear what we want to hear, but if we listen to reality, he spoke here, and he talks a lot out there, that we're not looking for the necessary solutions. So it's in the hands of the People's Party. We show, as we have shown in previous agreements, our willingness to build; here they have us for what we can contribute, we will give the best of us. If this is the mechanism, we'll be. We're not going to oppose it; but if this isn't the mechanism, at least we learn. Says an old man saying they count the old men in my area that sometimes he wins and sometimes he learns. If this law wins today and goes ahead, it will win; if not, it serves for us all to learn, and so tomorrow we seek another solution. If this isn't, it has to be different; what it's not worth is that this isn't and let's say that we're already working because the reality is, if someone's working, it's not doing it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the parliamentary group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning. I would like to thank you first of all for the work done by the promoters of this ILP, especially the person who came here to defend it on behalf of the promotional commission, Mrs González. And thank you to the 17,597 people who have signed, what the Electoral Board has given for valid, this popular legislative initiative, because it is a demonstration of this concern that exists in Galicia about the situation of mental health care, a demonstration that more and more people are aware of the situation and that there are means. So, thank you for that effort to put in, contribute to the agenda, to bring the mental health situation and the serious shortages and needs of resources and organization to the present. A situation and concern that shares the Galego Nationalist Block, which we have been reporting for years that mental health is one of the great damages of the health policies of the People's Party, such cuts and neglect of attention to the needs of health and of the Greeks and the Greeks, a situation that, if it was already serious before the pandemic, the pandemic came only to enlarge and magnify. There are a lot of experts and experts who are already warning you that it is the great pandemic after Covid-19. And, in the face of this situation, I have to repeat again, on behalf of the BNG, that the People's Party in Galicia — and I also greet the advisor who is here today, who has not seen him before — who has not acted, has not met the needs, has not planned and has not provided the necessary budget. The consequence of that is to be that great forgotten. And we have been insisting for years on the need for that attention, on the need to act, on the need for a strategic plan of mental health, since the People's Party has put the Mental Health Plan 2006-2011 in the coffin, and years in demand a specific plan for the prevention of suicide. We had to wait until 2017 for the Galician Board to publish the suicide prevention plan, and by 2020 for it to do its own with the Mental Health Care Plan, pressed by the consequences of Covid: Postcovid Mental Health Plan 2020-2024. Two planning elements that keep going, that don't go from paper to reality. In the case of the suicide prevention plan in its creation and resource allocation measures is more than insufficient, insufficient resources; an increase in really very poor staff; and there is no follow-up or evaluation; or such issues as which we denounce that in the health area of Pontevedra do Salnes opens a suicide prevention unit that closes from there a few weeks away leaving the people who had to attend. Or in the case of the Poscovid 2020-2024 Mental Health Plan, which was theoretically endowed with 83 million euros, but as a result of the budgetary concretion, year after year, we do not see that these 83 million euros are actually being realized. Forgetting to put the needed games in the budget, there is no memory to evaluate and quantify the degree of achievement of the targets, or their calendar. A plan that the staff they are contemplating would be in the middle of the precision and, according to the assessment that Sergas himself made 25 years ago, in the year 96, which he also referred to by Mrs González. The 241 squares that contemplate the plan in force of the People's Party would not reach half of what was envisaged 25 years ago, so it increased the need for mental health care, I say, prior to Covid, and with Covid multiplied, with which it is evidence that it is not a priority for the People's Party. Just as we've been demanding for years, echoing complaints of violation of the rights of individuals with psychiatric diagnoses entered into health centres; denouncing what happened or what happens in these centers, such as avoidable suicides, income on care devices that are not the right ones, isolation measures as punishment, or the issue of unacceptable mechanical restraint in the middle of the 21st century. Complaints that we have been personalizing in the situation of the Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo; complaints that included the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, dependent on the Ombudsman — because he is Spanish — that he made a visit in 2017, and that he acknowledged the unacceptable situation that he was living in the Hospital of Conxo, that the Board of Galicia and the People's Party has minimized, that he has only rectified and that four years later, in 2021, he has returned to visit and that he practically recollects in his report presented at the Congress of Deputies that things are practically the same. This — and I take advantage of it that you are present, Counselor — is not acceptable. It is not acceptable for this situation to be maintained and therefore the BNG coincides with the diagnosis that has been presented here today; we agree with a question which has referred to Mrs González that the solutions start by recognizing that there is a problem, and the People's Party must recognise that there is a very serious problem in Galicia regarding mental health. A very serious problem that affects thousands of people and that can't bring their solution to the back of families. They can't put it on the back of the families, and when we talk about the families we're talking about, as the defender of this ILP said, basically on the back of women, who take care of all people with mental health problems. They can't do it, they can't do it. [[Applause]] You've moved here the defender of this ILP a whole series of data that BNG has been transferring here to this Parliament, demanding that you take note of this reality in order to remedy it. We have come demanding, showing that there is a global framework in Galicia, that is a very important increase in the prevalence of mental health problems; that one in five Greeks and Greeks shows a mental health problem throughout their lives; that the pandemic is worsening that situation; that there is difficulty in accessing mental health services; that the latest published data from Galician Unions themselves, which are June 2021, as compared to Sergas waiting lists, would have to have published in December 2021, we are practically in April and continue without publishing that data, but the last June of 2021 established that there were 7,020 people waiting for a first consultation of psychiatry in Galicia. That's brutal because health care in general, but mental health in particular, is useful when it's done in time and form, when you meet those demands and needs in time and form, and not when it takes months to attend them, or when it takes months later in the second consultations, that these are no longer published and that are months. A mental health problem cannot take months in the first consultation, nor can it take months in the subsequent consultations. That's not attention, Counselor. Just like the worrying number of suicide deaths. We're headed in the Spanish state in suicide deaths. What's very serious is that this situation is not reversed, it's kept in mind for years. And what's very serious is that we're seeing an increase in very young people, in children, and suicides of people who get it, and many others who try it and we know that behind every person who gets it there are at least 20 who try it. That's a real drama that needs to be remedied with resources, device resources and primarily personnel resources. Just as we've been reporting for a long time in this Parliament the overdiagnosis of mental illnesses in women, that many women with different pathologies are treated with psychopharmacists, which is not of course a solution, the only thing it does is masking problems and delaying their solution. With the primary care collapsed, with hospitals with waiting lists in the dimension I've just said, it's obvious that the Greeks and the Greeks do not have a mental health care worthy of such a name. And the result is the stagnation in evolution and very distanced tracking in time that don't respond to pathologies, that people access emergency services by collapsing those devices. And all this lack of attention translates into a drama for sick people and their families and their surroundings; those who can access private health and those who don't literally get shot. And with this situation and this data, it is essential to take action, act and take seriously the problem. BNG will vote in favour of this popular legislative initiative being taken into consideration, not because we agree with all that is collected in it, we have already expressed both Ana and David, that we meet with them; but that, if the procedure is allowed, the BNG will present proposals to improve it, in order to ensure that mental health is fully inserted into public health care, public health care of quality and free of charge, not that it pays or that it is attended to who has the most resources, but rather that it is attended to those who need more attention. It's our priority. Fully incorporated into public health and within public devices so that this is a guarantee. And to improve what is the guarantee of strengthening the recognition of the rights of persons with mental health problems, of persons with disabilities, that their rights are fully recognized, and that rights before involuntary income are recognized or in the direction of elimination of mechanical restraints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u44	These are some of the issues that would seem fundamental to us in addressing it and essentially in implementing budgeting, as we have already done in recent years, and personal, which are the key elements for that quality care; as well as primary care where mental health has staff and multi-disciplinary teams to meet these needs, because -- I repeat, the proposal also said -- if 30% of primary care consultations have to do with mental health, there has to be sufficient resources to care for these people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u46	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I also greet the Salma Association and, in particular, its president, Ana González. To say that mental health is something more than the absence of mental disorders, it is a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being, key to achieving our goals and being able to cope with the stress of life and working productively to contribute to our well-being and that of our community. We must all be involved in this pathology, since only when it touches us closely are we able to value it in its fair measure. Unfortunately, negative beliefs and attitudes toward people who have some mental health pathology are common in our society. Having said this, first of all, I would like to thank the Salma Foundation, the promoters of this bill, the effort and commitment shown in the impetus of this initiative, and the work that they do daily in the field of mental health, which is so evident to us, which is much and continues. We agree with the need that from all public administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u47	I'm sorry, you hear her wrong. If you can approach the microphones more... to see it like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u48	We agree with the need that all public administrations, institutions and governments should strive to improve the situation, care, treatment and care of mentally ill people; to increase support resources for them and their families; and to avoid stigma associated with these diseases, so unfair that it often acts as an obstacle to the proper treatment. However, I believe that the Greek Government has made remarkable progress in this area, as I shall try to explain immediately, so we believe that its treatment, in this legislative case, should not be differential. These patients must have the same rights as everyone else, and so they are collected in general legislation, such as the Galician Health Act. The same rights and the same quality of care. But before and as a previous question I would like to highlight the fact that we are here today discussing a popular legislative initiative, an instrument of direct citizen participation in the legislative processes that, far from remaining political protagonists in the Galician Parliament, contributes to strengthening the centrality of this House as the common house of all Greeks and Greeks, and Parliament's ability to approach social demands and concerns more effectively. So far it is that it was the People's Group with determined political action who broke the previous model making it possible for the debate of taking into account these popular legislative initiatives not only to depend on the majority of the political shifts, but at least all the popular initiatives are the subject of direct debate in this plenary once they meet the requirements of signatures and others provided for in the regulation. We may be in favour of or against the content of the bills that come with the referendum on citizenship to this House, but, thanks to the reform promoted by the People's Party from the Welsh House, there is no obstacle to the debate. And this is an exercise of respect for the promoters of transparency initiatives with citizenship and democratic commitment. We all remember how the bipartisan left in limbo many laws because of convenience or opportunity. And already entering what we are debating today about the ILP, I reiterate that mental health for the Government of Galicia is a priority. President Feijóo, in his investment speech, announced that in this legislation the greatest mental health plan in our history would be developed, and so it is happening. And at the Council of June 26, 2020, the new Galician Mental Health Plan was adopted, a plan that is perfectly adapted to the new reality that marked the pandemic and that we are living in. It has 98 projects aimed at preventing mental health problems in the population of Galicia, in addition to implementing improvements in socio-health care to people suffering from mental disorders and their families, in a way committed to the sustainability of the health system. Equipped with a budget of EUR 83 million and which aims to increase the number of professionals and assistance devices, such as the development of programs for the recovery of people with severe mental disorders and to promote research into these pathologies. I'm not going to join party debates today, we're used to valuing Welsh health at the lowest level, but I think, with regard to the initiative brought here today by the Salma Association, we should not get into controversy that they have no interest. Just to specify what Mrs Prado de Conxo has said; it is important to say that the Board has already implemented much of the measures indicated by the Ombudsman, such as the modification of revenue models, the initiation of a quality plan of the centre with a gender perspective or improvements in records and mechanical containment monitoring devices. And in October last year Sergas issued an instruction to regulate the registration of containment measures that apply to patients with mental health. I'm still in the debate because I don't want to get into controversy, as I said. The best example of the government's priority to this plan is that it's in the highest level of management document for the Greek health system. The same health adviser who accompanies us today and the social policy advisor, as I said in the previous plenary, informed us of the management agreements that Sergas signed with the 7 health areas, which collect the specific indicators and objectives of compliance with the Mental Health Plan. I'm going to report the programs because, as nothing is done, we're going to report the programs that are running, which are many, in the improvement and the search for the best mental health care. The children's day-to-day hospitals of Vigo, Santiago and Ourense are already running; the development of the child-to-child care network is an absolute priority in this plan and, in fact, its start-up has strengthened the child-to-child health units of the main metropolitan areas, where the incidence of cases is higher. The five new outpatient units, three of adults — Ordes, Oleiros and Tui — and two young children in Coruña and Vigo are also in progress. The new psychogeriatric unit in Ourense, which is working. Hospitalization staff were also expanded to a mental health home in 3 areas: Santiago, Pontevedra and Ourense. This implies greater territorial and time-consuming coverage. And there are reinforcements in all areas in socio-sanitary programs, of which both are spoken and so important are in the mental health content, which give a service to the homes of older people, allowing psychiatry professionals to care in a coordinated manner with social policy for the needs of residents who have mental health pathology. Governance, coordination and transversality, that is what we are talking about. Fruit of this are already being carried out specific projects, such as the Life Programme with the Social Policy Council; in addition to Galicia in recent years, different interdepartmental participation committees on areas of particular relevance, such as the Interdepartmental Commission for the Prevention of Suicide or the Interdepartmental Commission on Health and Education, from which an Educational Health Committee in Wellness and Mental Health was formed in May 21. Primary-related clinical psychologists were incorporated, a new program that aims to improve coordination between primary and mental health, and all areas with clinical-related psychologists for hospital care are also included. It highlights the Programme Care for Care, which provides psychological support and support to dozens of Sergas professionals. As for the prevention of suicide, in 2021 it passed from one unit, that of Ourense, which was the pioneer, to have six units, and in this 2022 the model would extend to seven areas. In addition, the protocol for the prevention of suicide in education was updated. If we talk about personnel or budget, the 163 squares created in 20, 21 and 22 already account for an investment of 7.7 million euros more in mental health personnel than there was in 2019. The final objective of the plan is to have incorporated these 241 new squares, so the annual staff investment reinforcement will reach 11 million euros. In addition, it is important to highlight the collaboration with the entities of the socio-sanitary associative tissue, which also have an increase in budget both in the tendering of new contracts and in the call for aid to these entities. Year by year the squares are increasing in rehabilitation centers, protected floors or residential centers. In 2022, 8.1 million were allocated, which means more than 30% of the counties were in 2020. By 2024, counseling aims at reaching this budget by 55% more than by 2020. This is about 320 new squares out of 1,500. With regard to aid for programme financing to social entities related to patients with mental disorders, this plan in 2020 submitted the first EUR 500,000 aid order, in the year 21, it exceeded 800,000 and announced at the last Board of Directors held in Lugo last Thursday, in which three months the call for this year 2022, the appropriation of EUR 841,177 to facilitate the execution of funds by the entities. Finally, Galicia has a solid mental health plan, a management team that supports it and a firm budget budget budget, which supports each and every step that is being taken to develop it. This plan marks the way for more integrated, coordinated and better equipped mental health assistance. The plan also responds to a reality, that of the pandemic, which has increased these pathologies and identifies mental health as one of the priorities for the Government of Galicia. However, we do not give up on the system, and we thank each and every one of them. More noodles and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica roll, Mrs. González Novás. It's five minutes. Five minutes is your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u50	I have finished my speech by saying that thank you for hearing us and I wish you had also listened to us. Unfortunately, after the intervention of the People's Party I have to say that we do not feel heard. I am not going to repeat all the figures I have already mentioned, but you know the figures better than we do. We have made it clear that the current plan you present as a wonderful solution is not reaching people, it is not covering the basic needs of people. And even if one hundred per cent were to be met, as I have already said, we would be in red numbers and precarious; we would not even be achieving the goals that were set as urgent and necessary more than 30 years ago. Then nothing to celebrate, Mrs. Friend. Nothing to celebrate and much to work. I really regret that you haven't taken the glove, that you haven't taken this opportunity to do a bit of self-criticism and see that things are really not doing well. Perpetuating in policies that are not responding to the needs of families, of people is a mistake. What does this lead us to? Do you still expect family and personal figures and dramas to increase? Plans have not worked and continue to fail. We need new approaches, new policies, new strategies and we need objective control and continuous evaluation that is really doing well, not because you tell us, with all my respect. Many thanks to PSOE and BNG for having been open to explore new ways to get out of this emergency situation where we find ourselves and look for new formulas that could serve citizenship. Unfortunately, if you do not reverse this emergency situation in which you find yourself, thousands of families will continue to suffer, and that will have an impact on the growth of society as a whole. Because when there is a diagnosis of mental health, it does not only affect the person diagnosed, it drags the whole family with you. I don't know if it feels like you're human having to wait three or four months for a first date when your son might have had a suicide attempt a week or two ago. When the optional dedicates only fifteen minutes, and the next visit is at three months and you see someone else again. Really, are you happy with that attention? Can you call that socio-health care? It is that there is not even paying for social health care in decent mental health. Today, even private clinics have a waiting list. Would you tell someone with terminal cancer or someone with a chest angina waiting for four months? Why are we not giving him the courage and attention needed by mental health? We need a strong society; to be a society of progress, we need to be a healthy society, and there is no health without mental health, ladies and gentlemen. Take it seriously. Just like you, as I started my intervention, you probably have some problem yourself or some family member or any other relative, and this is not going to be solved alone with the private intervention alone, there has to be resources. It is not worthy that in the twenty-first century, which we are pretending to have one of the best sanitations, a large part of the population is being neglected. Because make them wait months for a consultation, which has no resources of therapeutic continuity, that our young people are left out of the school system because there are not even specialists to treat them. That is not from the 21st century and that is not from a civilised country member of the European Union. I am very sorry that they have not been able to hear us, but I hope that in the future they will do so and that among all of us we can reverse this dramatic situation in which mental health is found in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u51	Thank you, Mrs. González Novás. The House's services may accompany Mrs González Novás. Thank you. This debate is over. We are voting on the proposal for a popular initiative law for a mental health law and Galicia. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of popular initiative, for a mental health law in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This non-law proposal is therefore rejected and is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u52	What do you want the word for, Mrs. Friend? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Any more votes? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that I didn't know very well, that was what happened, I was... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Was it inside where, from the hemicycle? Wasn't he in there? Well, if you're inside, I think you have the right to vote. Not if I was outside, but if I was inside... The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This is therefore rejected in view of the proposal for a mental health law in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u53	We move on to the next item on the agenda, as agreed, is that of appearances. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, on the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, to report on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the face of the escalation of prices and the social and economic consequences it is having for small and medium-sized workers and the main productive sectors of Galicia. And before we give the floor to the president, we greet the sixth primary students of the Pius XII centre of Santiago de Compostela. Welcome to Parliament, to them and to their teachers who accompany them. And now yes, when you want the president of the board, you have the floor for the audience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet the students and students at the Pius XII school in Santiago de Compostela, as well as their teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this House because I agree that the situation in the whole of Spain and, therefore, Galicia is very worrying. As a result and as an ordinary representative of the State in the autonomous community, I agree with you that this is a historic moment and, therefore, at this point, everyone is required to move his reflections. That we live in a critical situation is evidence, anyone can also verify that there is an intense worsening in the last few days. The great uncertainty that exists at many levels is likely to continue to worsen further in the coming days. When most families observe the future distressed, when the essential sectors of our economy suffer so much hardship and anxiety, the obligation of any government, any administration, any political group, is to react and do it as diligently as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here today because I believe that in the face of a crisis situation like the one we live in, a responsible ruler must provide explanations, ensure measures that depend on one and strongly demand those that correspond to the rest of the public administration. At any moment, but at this most, citizens need proactive governments that don't hide. They don't hide anymore, they have to face each other, and they don't get intoxicated when they need it most. Our first duty as citizens is to try to answer your questions, your citizens' questions, with the most accurate and complete diagnosis possible. And also respectful of the suffering of families and of all the workers who are in a particularly sensitive situation in most parts of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the complaints of so many workers these days are understandable and deserve, first of all, respect and, in my opinion, solidarity. It is compatible to condemn, without a doubt, the reprehensible actions of a minority with the understanding that all those who legitimately implore measures for something as elementary as being able to work without losing money. Signing as enemies — and sometimes even as criminals — citizens who are worried and desperate about a situation is a big mistake and I think it must be rectified immediately. Because it's thousands of sheep who are throwing their milk and wondering if they'll have to sacrifice their livestock heads in the next few days. Because it's thousands of sailors who have their ships tied up because they can't impact the price of gas oil on the fish, or they don't even have those who pick it up on the farthest sides. Thousands of carriers have secured the supply of basic goods during the state of alarm in full confinement, and today they can't go out sharing because they don't give them their accounts. They're thousands of industry members, aware that their work hangs from a thread, because many of those who were next to them have already lost their jobs. And it's thousands of construction workers who are canceling works they've hired because price change makes contracts they've signed unfeasible. There are thousands in the tourism and trade sector who wonder if we'll go back now that we were beginning to start a shy replay after the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, there are millions of people who have serious difficulties filling their vehicle storage. Millions fear the arrival of the bill of light and heating. And all those thousands and all those millions are not affiliated with a sheep of a political party or another, they are people who want to live, who want to work and who want solutions to their problems. How can they all be asked to understand the same ones that don't take care of their complaints? [[Applause]] How can you tell them that the consequences in Spain are much smaller than those that deprive this nation of measures that have been implemented for days or weeks in other countries of the European Union? I want to express to people that my respect, all my respect, is being overlooked. And that begins, as I said, by conveying to our people the truth of what happens, and with exactly the same transparency also the incognites that the Greek Government has as it has. We know that the war of Ukraine — which I use to condemn again without means of ink — will leave important sequels throughout Europe and therefore also in Galicia. But we don't know how long or how intense. We know that attention to refugees from the conflict will involve Galicia — and that is our will — but we do not know the volume and the help that we are going to count on for this extraordinary situation. We know that the developments in foreign policy — which we know by means last week — pose enormous risks to energy supply in Spain, but we ignore the magnitude because we do not have any information about it. We know that the political situation in our country adds more instability and mistrust to the great division within the central government and with the parties that support it, but we don't know what will have consequences for this division. And what we do know -- and we know without any kind of doubt -- is that many of the problems we have already existed prior to Putin's illegitimate unsuspecting invasion of a sovereign nation. This as much as you intend to hide is undeniable, I myself warned some of them to the President of the Government in a letter sent on November 10 of last year. But it's just that, in addition, anyone can check in their household bills the evolution of the cost of life, in general, and the prices of energy, in particular. To insist that the diagnosis of what happens to us comes back at least one year ago is not a personal whim, but a collective necessity. [[Applause]] As Ortega would say, "all ignored reality prepares for revenge." Trying to cope with any difficulty based on their denial is the first step in not being able to solve it. And exactly that, to conceal the diagnosis of a crisis, it's something that we've already lived in Spain in a not very distant past, ruled the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and that it was very bad for us to Spain and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It would be highly recommended not to fall twice on the same stone in such a short space of time. We therefore accept that, despite the fact that the war aggravates the situation — if not discounted — the economy in Spain was recovering on major weaknesses; that, by the way, Presidents of all colors warned the Central Government. Some of these oysters were surviving and inevitable, especially those derived from the pandemic; but others, ladies and gentlemen, could have been avoided because they responded to the Spanish Government's own decisions that we should have changed. Indeed, Spain has been the victim of a process of progressive energy intensification for years, electricity prices have multiplied by 5 since 2018, of 57 euros the megawatt to around 300 euros the megawatt currently; and in certain hours of the day the prices of megawatt have increased by 10. Logically, this is having demolition effects for families, for the primary sector, for industry; especially electrointensive workers — all workers of Alcoa The Coruña, Alcoa San Cibrao and Alcoa Avilés know well — and therefore for the vast majority of citizens. For too many years, our country has also been experiencing a disorderly and unfair energy rupture that many of us ask not to go so abruptly. In Galicia we know better than anyone else the effects that this has on industry — as I said — and now, in addition, our vulnerability has come to light because we are totally dependent on a single back energy, which is gas. Inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation didn't start last week, not last month. At the close of 2021 we had an inflation of 6.5% of the price increase, the largest of the last 30 years; and at the close of February this year we have had an inflation of 7.6% of the increase, the biggest of the historical series of the last three decades. Also for months now, one of our productive sectors has begun to notice with greater intensity the effects of the supply crisis, threatening the reactivation of the economy. Without going any further, Stellantis and his network of assistants was stopped for two weeks, since the semiconductor crisis had joined the crisis of other components. Similarly, Galicia has been defending for months now that tax increases have been reconsidered, that taxes have been decided at national level, and that it has chosen to lower tax pressure — as we have done since June. Unfortunately, the proposal was not accepted and the last fiscal reduction consolidated in this current year's Budget Act, 2022, was voted against by the entire opposition. And we also warn of the risk of increasing the uncontrolled debt -- they will remember -- for a long time, on a constant basis. The consequences of ignoring it are also seen now by the predictable monetary policies that will cease to buy debt and increase interest rates. And they will make all administrations suffer to pay off the debts of other administrations who have been indebted uncontrollably. Fortunately, Galicia is much smaller, since it is the second autonomous community of the nation with the lowest debt per inhabitant. I insist that most of this has been mentioned for months in this Parliament. And we warn the central government -- straight -- in the letter, which is at your disposal, dated November 10, 2021 last year; where I transferred to the President of the Government all these concerns described in concrete terms and with the greatest of the contributions. That is why I believe that it is now the European Union that is late, when the Central Government should take action at national level for months, it is a real provocation to citizens who think they do not deserve. Logically, since the last few weeks, and especially in the last few days, the situation has worsened: it has impacted the war — as it cannot be otherwise — and it has failed — to know with what consequences — the movement given in foreign policy unilaterally by the Socialist Party and the State Executive. All Spaniards have learned through a note by the Government of Morocco that we have decided in Spain in relation to our historical position on the Sahara and our historical and consensual relationship on Morocco and Algeria. But it also impacts on citizens' patience the inaction of the central government. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't understand what we're living for if you tell us to wait until March 29. Yesterday there was a central government meeting with transport, certainly a historic record: three ministers meet, transport confederations that were not on strike, and the meeting ends with all the strike transport federations. It is quite frankly to note in the negotiating and reasoning manual. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a meeting of the economic vice president with all the autonomous communities. News? None! "Let's be quiet," I literally repeat what the economic vice president and the councillor of Fairy said to us; but not one step ahead of the agreed Conference of Presidents on Palm Island a few weekends ago. Questions: What else has to happen for the Government to react? What else is needed for the government to face? What else is needed for the Government to act and make decisions? Indeed, it is disconcerting and worrying about the parsimony with which the central government is facing the problems of Spain; and therefore also the problems of Galicia. Every day that passes is one more day of loss of employment, one more day of collective impoverishment, one more day of economic destruction, one more day of social conflict. Nor is it understood the approach under which this crisis is being tackled, as if the solution to 100% of the problems were in the hands of the European Union alone. Ladies and gentlemen, many countries around us — our neighbours of Portugal, our French neighbours — have made decisions within their powers. France discounted 15 cents the liter of fuel, which adds to the consideration of gas prices. Portugal has approved a 10 cent-per-litre reimbursement system, which increases in the case of buses and taxis; in addition, the carbon tax has been suspended and the tax on petroleum products has been reduced. Italy: passed last Friday a decree that reduces 25 cents per litre the taxes of gasoline and gasoline. Belgium: gas, electricity and fuel VAT downflow, but also social rates and cheques of EUR 200 for consumers with gas oil heating. Poland: reduced VAT on fuels from 23% to 8% and increased these discharges to products of first need, such as food, gas and fertilizers. If all this is possible for our European allies, why not for Spain? If all this is possible for other countries, now without waiting until March 29, why not in Spain? Anyone can make mistakes, but what I can't understand is that no decisions are made, that's a sure mistake, with 100% probability. Unfortunately, the central government is reproducing the same attitude that we observed during the pandemic and which we so often denounce in the House. In the pandemic, the Central Government has hidden itself in the autonomous communities and is now hiding itself in the European Union. The emergency was really different, but the national response is the same, that is, none. It happens, however, that while the communities had clear competences that allowed us to cope with the crisis of the coronavirus and to a large extent overcome the inaction of the state executive, at this moment the margin of autonomous maneuver is really very scarce. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the difficult situations in our country, the attitude of the Galician Union is marked by the same pattern, our mandate and our conviction force us to collaborate with the Central Government, whatever it is, we owe the same citizens. But collaboration doesn't mean silence. Collaborating, ladies and gentlemen, does not imply silence when the situation is as serious as this with economic sectors that are about to collapse due to a series of concatenated circumstances in which the Russian invasion of Ukraine is a determining element, but of course it is not the wet element. [[Applause]] To cooperate also does not imply assuming responsibilities that do not correspond to the self-government. And it would be wrong for opposition parties in this Parliament to accept that from here on we should pay for the work of the state executive at the expense of exercising the tasks that are our own in worse conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is at the disposal of the Government to help in a critical moment as we live. And, in fact, we have already taken measures to alleviate burdens on many families and productive sectors. Last week we advanced the deployment of an autonomic shock plan that will be complemented at last Council meeting tomorrow, next Thursday. Because we understand that our people cannot wait and much less without knowing exactly what, which they are waiting for. That's why last week we excited the launch of the thermal social bond. A measure that will reach 66,000 homes, with aids ranging from 128 to 373 euros to pay for heating bills, hot water or the kitchen. They know that this aid we have decided to supplement it with another 100 euros to each family to help cover the receipts of light. Secondly, last week we also decided to inject liquidity into the livestock sector by way of funding to the circulating and early aid, especially the 200 million of the Common Agricultural Policy. In addition, we demand that the Bank of Spain authorize financial institutions to grant a one-year moratorium on the payment of long-term loans that are alive in this sector. Thirdly, for the sea sector, we have crafted a subsidy to compensate professionals for the payment of two months' port charges, which may be extended if price escalation and blockage persist. Fourthly, we approved an extraordinary injection for all public road passenger transport, in front of the fuel uphill. We are working on the formula for extending this commitment — an announcement — to the urgent and non-emergency health transport sector, as well as to the socio-health transport sector and, if necessary, to education. These are the measures that have already been taken, but of course we continue to work. And in this sense, I'm communicating new lines of action this week. To help small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the new Igape offer lines designed to meet liquidity needs and invest in productive elements that help to cope with the current situation. Sixthly, activate a direct lending programme for the manufacturing industry that is having the greatest impact. Both lines add up to 70 million euros, which will involve a mobilization of 140 million euros in the Italian production fabric. [[Applause]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, for companies that are experiencing difficulties and already have direct loans from the Union or avalanche, mechanisms will be enabled to make these more flexible. Eighth place, in the energy output, we activate the good energy peme. Directed to trade, hospitality and small and medium-sized enterprises for equipment that reduce energy consumption with an aid of up to 6,000 euros and with an intensity to help 80% of the investment. So we'll be adding more than 65 million euros that the Galician Union is destined for the industry, for pemes, to reduce the consumption and energy costs of its processes, only in terms of energy. Another of the most affected sectors is tourism due to the uncertainty of the national and international situation, to the increase in transport prices, and therefore we have activated good tourism as a dynamising effect of domestic consumption, as a medium-term measure and the achievement of more efficient and sustainable tourism. We reinforce the aid for digitisation and energy efficiency in the tourism sector with another 7.8 million euros. And to help and continue helping families cope with the light, Junta reinforces the measures it had already activated, more than 23 million euros, asking the Government for funds to double the impulse of electric self-consumption and thermal renewables: heating and hot water. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been concerned about this for six months. We notified the Central Government, directly to the President and to the Government in writing, on 10 November 2021. We are trying to convince the Government of Spain at the Conference of Presidents and we have taken up the commitment to lower the taxes on energy and the other sectors especially addressed by this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get in the way, make decisions on the board of directors, make more decisions today, and we'll continue to make decisions on the board of directors. [[Applause]] We believe that the decisions we make outside our competences or bordering our competences are consistent and that is what gives us legitimacy to continue to insist that national measures which are essential are already taken. The Central Government has powers to deal with the conflict in the transport of goods. The central government depends on the energy policy of our country, which is compromising the future of most. It's the central government that's the only administration that has the ability to lower taxes on electricity and fuel. It is the central government who decides foreign policy and, as it is now seen, without consulting the Government and breaking 40 years of parliamentary consensus. So it's the central government that has to put solutions into all this and who has to do it as soon as possible. The consequences of what we are living in, unfortunately, cannot be solved immediately, from one day to another, even if the conflict in Ukraine had stopped in days or in the unlikely hypothesis that Spain's new relationship with Morocco had no consequences in the energy field for Spain. That's why I think that at the level of the Spanish ensemble we must also be able to take short, medium and long-term measures without further approval. The responsible governments do not seek guilty or delegate their own duties to others. The responsible governments are looking for solutions and taking on their work. With this conviction, I would also like to take this opportunity to move the proposals that we understand from Galicia are necessary and urgent that we all take at national level. A battery of measures for which I ask for your support, if you like. —I'm already seeing them on the blocks of the Block saying that not before we announce them, as it has been normal and normal in today's Galician politics. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm putting them into practice, in case someone's interested. In two blocks, on the one hand, to respond to the economic crisis and, consequently, to the social crisis. And, on the other hand, about the specific answers for the refugees who take Spain. I'll try to be concise, I think it's very important that we be executives. Our economy — I insist — cannot wait any longer because businesses and workers don't deserve it and our people don't deserve it. The central government must take an example and make decisions immediately. And that's why we propose to the Council of Ministers a decade of urgent action that can be taken today. Ten exceptional measures, ten measures to mitigate the serious crisis we are suffering, ten immediate measures to stop the closure of companies and the enormous losses that have already caused this situation. If we evaluate the losses caused by the sovereignty of the Central Government over the past few days and weeks, they are greater than the loss of tax collection in which the Government of Spain insists with a massive increase in taxable bases and, consequently, in the collection. [[Applause]] It is urgent that the Central Government approve a contingency plan to ensure the supply of basic products to the population. It's not an option to do anything while there's food that doesn't come from the producers or from the consumers. Denying this problem should not be the alternative either. To claim that on the roads there is normality and that most carriers are working when the linears of the supermarkets are resenting it is an insult to the intelligence of the Greeks. The situation must be faced with all the instruments within reach of the Central Executive. The forces and bodies of security without any doubt and, if this is not enough to ensure safe corridors in perishable food, which helps the Army to ensure that milk, meat and fish leave their places of origin to the places of destination. Similarly, beyond the cessation of transport these weeks, we propose to promote a national strategic product plan, which, in addition to setting strategic reserves, temporarily prioritizes production in the internal market to tackle in a more orderly and possible manner the lack of raw materials and components. It is also appropriate for the Central Government to ask the European Commission to review the conditions for imports of products in order to be able to cover what has been acquired so far in Ukraine and Russia. The second proposal, which never goes wrong, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Government cannot live in a ivory tower while so many sectors are in a desperate situation; he must listen, he likes or doesn't like it. You must listen to everyone, and that happens to sit down also on the calling platform of unemployment, the calling platform of unemployment in transport to try to bring up postures and arrive at a solution. Thirdly, we insist, a national response to the energy emergency is essential. And it must include the revision of the focus and, above all, of the pace of energy transition. We can't go on with a pace of energy transition before the crisis, even before the war, and we can't change it. That's fear and irresponsibility we're paying. A power tax download must be supported by now. It is a commitment made at the Conference of Presidents of Palma by the President himself when we agree to at least one statement. And no one understands that there has yet been a single step in this direction. It details our proposal exactly: The central government must extend until the end of the year the following fiscal measures already in force, which are due in June, we extend them until the end of the year. The suspension of taxes on generation by 7% and the reduction of special electric tax by 5.1% to the minimum legal 0.5%. As regards the taxation of gas and fuel, we propose that a consultation be taken to the European Union in order to reduce VAT to hydrocarbons in a similar way, to place it also in this exercise in the low or super-reduced type or to establish aid for consumption. That the special taxation of hydrocarbons is immediately reduced to the minimum rates laid down by the European Tax Directive. In addition, the European Commission is urged to agree on the temporary suspension of these minimum rates on an exceptional and transitional basis. First, to reduce the minimum types, which we have not done; and now to insist on the temporary suspension of these minimum types so as to significantly limit the impact of tax on the final price of gas and fuels. Fifthly, the possibility of establishing a mechanism to provide stability in the electrical price for families is studied. It is necessary to reduce the condition of price volatility in households. Within the decade, the fourth measure, ladies and gentlemen, refers to exploring all the avenues at your disposal to ease the burden that they are suffering from particularly price-affected areas, and among them addressing the temporary exemption from social security contributions in the most extreme cases. Logically, I should be able to get normal back so as not to reach this limit, but, in the event of this, this is a measure of much less impact on public buildings than to deal with job destruction and therefore finance social security quotas and finance unemployment subsidies. The pandemic crisis has left the financial reserves of many very thin or exhausted companies. It is urgent to set up an extraordinary fund to counter this situation, as well as to take further action. We're on the fifth section of the decal. For example, request a one-year moratorium on ICO loans, support measures for ERT expansion or speed up the processing of a new competition law with pre-competitive figures that favour the refinancing of firms in difficulty. Sixth proposal, adopted in this House and referred to the Constitutional Court: the elimination of obstacles and disproportionate costs is an essential demand to adapt the regulatory framework to the current context, he said, the flexibility of the current contracts in relation to the revision of deadlines and the revision of prices. Axillize recruitment processes for public administrations. From Galicia, we have always shown our conviction that European funds are a fundamental tool for recovery, not only for the transformation and modernization and the momentum of the competitiveness of our economy, but now also for, we have added, the viability of companies. In this context it is imperative that the Government axillize as far as possible the projects already announced and that it definitely pushes, as it has just done in the case of the automobile, other PERTE in key sectors, such as agri-food, personalized medicine, aeronautics, naval... But we also see the primordial, as we advance from the Palma Conference, that a new figure of autonomic tractor project is created as a tool for managing funds in a way past the reality of each territory and each sector with real transformative effects for the autonomous communities that propose it. In addition to the seven general measures for the whole of citizenship, each of the sectors concerned needs support from the Central Government. For our agriculture, a reduction in the costs of drastic production, subsidies for gas oil and fertilizers, a reduction in VAT to 4% for purchases for producers, or a reduction in the yield rates applicable in the objective method of estimating the income tax of natural persons. In the case of the sea, measures similar to the reduction in fuel taxes and generating aid on the basis of the exceptional time frame at European level, in addition to reaching reductions in other elements of operational costs such as port charges, in giving them general interest, i.e. ports of general interest of the State. One of the main difficulties facing some of the affected sectors is the dependence of the countries in conflict on the supply of raw materials. And here comes the ninth part of the Decalogue. In addition to facilitating the search for new markets in origin, as we said, it must work in the medium term to identify and access new potential markets that are suitable to redirect exports of products that may be affected by potential trade restrictions due to conflict. In this too you will have the tender hand of the Galician Union, we will facilitate the dialogue of the sectors and make available our entire experience of internationalization of certain important products in our economy. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, transparency in international negotiations. We need to know what the government is negotiating in Brussels. We need to know what the Government's plans are and what it is claiming specifically in the European institutions. We need to know what effect the agreement with Morocco will have. What's that deal, what's its content. We need to know what we're doing. We need, of course, to amplify our diplomatic relations with Algeria. We need to continue to respect our neighbor and ally Morocco. We need an answer for the Saharian people and we need, without a doubt, that this government does not lie to us. It's urgent for the government to appear and give answers. Surprisingly, the Socialist Party asks for the presence of the president of the Union, accepted. Surprisingly, the President of the Government does not want to attend the Congress of Deputies. It's a very coherence of current socialism. [[Applause]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the most direct and humanly painful consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine is the huge stream of people who are fleeing the war towards the European Union. UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Agency, indicates that they can be, sorry, not that they can be, but that they are more than 3.3 million Ukrainian women and children who have already left their home. Another two million people left their homes in the most war - punished areas to take refuge in western cities of Ukraine. So if the war moves west, the number of people leaving the country could increase exponentially. To put this human drama in perspective, just say it's the most intense and fast refugee movement anywhere in the world since the end of World War II. The massive exodus of Ukrainians is a very painful reminder for everyone. Peace, ladies and gentlemen, can't be taken for granted. Respect for human rights cannot be done. The world order we've known for decades cannot even be done. Galicia has always been a supportive and welcoming community, we never shirk our responsibilities to people fleeing from a humanitarian crisis, both when this happened in Syria and Afghanistan, as well as at the very borders of our nation. With Ukraine it will be no different, Galicia is and will be up to our responsibilities. Galicia is once again an open land for those who need our help. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government delegation transferred to us last Friday that I had official knowledge that 150 Ukrainians already live in Galicia but that the real figure was probably higher. The entities that are managing the first reception of these refugees point out that in our territory there are more than 800 people who have just arrived from Ukraine. We need coordination, we need organization, we need the central government to take the incomes of this situation at once and to clear up a number of questions. Will there be a national reception plan and reception plan for displaced persons, or will each community continue to be obliged to do what it considers appropriate? When will we be given the extraordinary funds that autonomous communities, municipalities and social entities need to carry out our welcoming functions, and which, of course, was agreed in Palma, of which we still know nothing. And, above all, how and when will you start communicating with us how many refugees arrive every day in Galicia, how many already live here today?, how many are they called and how old are they and where are they living? I don't think it's too much to ask, we need to know what we have to do to do it. The administration responsible for the internal security of migration and border control is the central government and must therefore give answers because, without accurate and reliable data, we cannot afford to welcome the people who need it in optimal conditions. We asked the President of the Government at the Palma Conference, asked the Government delegate and the only answer was evasive. I sincerely hope that this week will not end without us counting on the real-time flowing information channels that we've been complaining about since the start of the crisis. Progress is being made, such as the Emergency Committee that called on Junta last week when the delegation of the Government and the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces of Galicia participated, and the social entities that are acting in the field of international protection, child support and development collaboration. It was a fruitful meeting that served to put together pending challenges. The Galician Union is ready, ready to act in the field of our competences, which are public services, health, education, social policies and employment policies. In the health field, the branches of the seven areas have clear indications of providing immediate assistance to all refugees who need immediate assistance. We offer the Government more than 400 beds a week ago, of which more than a hundred are pediatric beds and a part of them are oncoholic. In the educational field, we have already issued an instruction to enable the immediate schooling of young Ukrainians in both childhood schools and schools and schools. In the social field, the Central Government has been informed of a relationship of reception centres which add up to 1,400 squares. In the field of work, refugees already have access to employment offices so that they can register and access courses and offers from companies. We will continue to enable new resources to adapt to the next phases of the reception. Because, in addition to receiving them, giving them a roof and urgent attention, it's necessary to advance the integration of refugees to try to make them feel like one more Greek. That's why we're going to immediately put a package of measures at your disposal. First, psychological attention to Ukrainians who are affected by post-traumatic stress, with special attention to minors. Second, curriculum guidance and adaptation programmes that help students integrate as soon as possible into education in Galicia. The third, a pre-laborary training plan that prioritizes the learning of Spanish or Greek in order to access a job as soon as possible. In parallel, we have just referred to the Government Delegation a list of minimum decisions that we believe the Central Executive should take in the field of their competences: More information on protection measures specific to unaccompanied minors, especially the legal coverage of temporary shelters. Allowing people welcomed to the temporary protection regime to easily access the minimum income vital to have economic means for decent livelihoods while not able to work; whether the Government meets this point or not, the board has already enabled Risga to access its refugees. Third, clear criteria for the approval of secondary and higher education, which may have Ukrainian women coming to our land. It would be unfair for them to be unable to continue their education career or their studies because the Government does not establish equivalences of their previous training. And support for the Greek municipalities in the inventory work of the material collected and stored in the different facilities. And first of all, as a condition necessary to offer the best welcome, timely information, timely information on the number, the circumstances of the refugees arriving, as we said before. Every day, we learn from the press about the arrival of new refugees. In the face of the lack of clarity of official channels, they arrive through irregular channels through the goodwill of citizens. We always said that the answer to such a situation cannot be based solely on the good intentions of people. But people, people who want to help, you can't say "don't help," but you have to explain to them the best and easiest and most effective way to help. To facilitate their work — together with the list of tasks I have just listed — we have just sent the Government Delegation a proposal for a document with frequently asked questions and answers about the reception of refugees to distribute to the entire Greek citizenship and who know what they must, who they can and who they have to ask for permission. Clarity, transparency and information, are the pillars that we understand should follow this welcome of refugees. We must assure the people who saw how their lives were ruined by the war. The hands of the Union — I insist — are ready, the autonomous public services, constitutional competence and the statute of the autonomous community, are ready. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the needs and possible solutions I have just reported demonstrate that the task we have is ingenious, urgent and requires of all. It's ingenious because the situation we live in affects many fronts and forces a reorientation of the decisions we've created consolidated. It's urgent and measures can't wait at the end of the month because many thousands of Greeks and Spaniards are not coming at the end of the month. It is urgent and requires that everyone, I say everyone, because everyone in the scope of their responsibilities, each administration has to face up and give answers to each one's responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, this appearance really responds to a need, to the evolution of events every day with greater intensity, seeing that the central government does not come up with more information or more news at the moment, I believe that my duty was not to wait for it, and to share with this Parliament what we have already done, and what we know, even though this information received is very incomplete, what we probably still have to do. I do not hide from you that I am concerned about the absence of State policies which I consider essential for this moment. State policies are not the same as government policies, which in our country is too often confused. Well, sadly, in Spain there is no state policy right now, there are government policies — in plural —. You can't even talk about essential issues of government policy in singular, because what is the government's policy? Does the Government think the same about the fundamental themes of Spain? No, no, no, no. Do they have any obvious differences? Yes. Is it that when the president speaks automatically he is amended by a vice president? Tamen! Do the autonomous presidents not agree, including all political colors, on the lack of decisions, divisions and contradictions of the central government? Yes. We have seen it with special profusion these days with regard to the developments known by the media in foreign policy, that is, in a democratic Parliament. That we have learned through the media, through the Government of Morocco, what the position of Spain in relation to the Sahara is a matter that has never occurred in our country, ever. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, something I would also like to refer to expressly — to conclude — given its consequences. First, to insist — I hope with your support — that foreign policy is a state policy, it does not belong to President Sánchez, it does not belong to the current Government; and, of course, it does not belong to the current Socialist Party, which has broken the agreements of the previous Socialist Party. Secondly, to add ourselves from Galicia to the request for detailed, concrete and transparent explanations about this decision. What is the decision? What's the deal? What is the content and scope of it? How does Ceuta and Melilla affect this decision? How does it affect the Saharian people? How does it ultimately affect the Maghreb? How does it affect the southern European Union? How does it affect Spain? And how does it affect North Africa? And thirdly, to request that it be confirmed with all clarity and consistency that the Central Government has perfectly measured the Algerian reaction, and that there are assurances regarding the supply of gas to Spain in the short term. I want to believe that this is the case, I want to believe that the concern about Algeria's gas is an unfounded concern. But logically, besides wanting to believe it, we need no confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, to clear the doubts generated at the international level, to defend our position in Europe, to decide foreign policy must be done with greater consensus. Reform policies so that the economy and, consequently, the well-being of citizens will continue, too. Arrange care for refugees, too. It's about adding up and waking up to be stronger in the face of difficulties. Of course, we're looking for that work together with the affected sectors, all of them, without exception and without excuses. It is our duty to listen to the positions of all to try to convert them, as far as possible and whenever possible, into concrete measures. We would also like the agreement with the Central Government. We are trying to do so with proposals, with measures that we make available to you for the good of all; for now, the answer we have found is disappointing. At this moment, dominated by distrust and uncertainty, Spain is in the hands of two governments, orphan of state policies, I think it's the worst way to deal with the challenges we have ahead. I want to assure the Greeks that this will not happen in Galicia; regardless of the personal decisions that everyone knows I must adopt, our land will preserve its stability. Because I know this government, because I know the party that supports it, because I know the majority of Parliamentarians in this House, and that's why I know that Galicia is above all. And that's why all of you thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u55	Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Feijó. It's Tuesday, Mr. Feijóo, we're in Santiago de Compostela, and this is... this House is the Parliament of Galicia, it's not the Senate. And I'm telling you this, Mr. Feijóo, because you've been carrying so many days' internal campaign of the People's Party that you might think this is a PP rally; and of course, the Greeks and the Greeks are not for their myths. [[Applause]] And it hurts us that you use Galicia, that you use the Greeks and the Greeks at such a hard time to campaign for the People's Party; of course, the Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve this, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And I regret that I cannot be able to stand up to Galicia or at the discount time because really your legacy, Mr. Feijóo, is to leave Galicia at the foot of the horses leaving us a country worse than what was 13 years ago. [[Applause]] You spoke in your intervention of provocation. And we believe that provocation is that while there is a crisis that is impoverishing families, that is drowning companies, that puts thousands of jobs at risk in our country and that even we are at risk of collapse sectors that are strategic in the Greek economy, we have the president of the Tourism Board, the election campaign of the People's Party. Because, look, the crisis has been here for a long time, and the price problem hasn't started three weeks ago; I myself in November last year asked for measures to deal with the crisis. [[Applause]] And what we see is a president who does what is best for him, who is throwing balloons out, looking for culprits, and who is unable to provide solutions. You come here with the usual, propaganda. [[Applause]] And allow me, Mr. Feijóo, to pick up some headlines these days; March 11th: "The strong fuel rises drag families and businesses. Conservatives, logistics, metallurgy and debuggers end job suspensions; what did they do and what did they say while you did? "I start campaign in Valencia with a spectacular environment in full failures. Thank you, Murcia, for the warm reception." March 12th: "Galiza among the communities in which prices rise the most, with 8% inflation," and while you're like, "Today in Canary Islands, which received us with a radiant day." March 14th: "Brothers and confreres warn of the collapse in fishing if no action is taken," and while you: "I hope for you in Palma de Mallorca and Barcelona." March 15th: "Confirmers and shipowners fight the general tie. The Welsh fleet is drawn to a historic tie, there will be destruction; and while you, "Zaragoza, Madrid, Toledo, see you today?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh shsh [[Applause]] And that day I added a headline, Mr. Feijóo: "Madrid loves freedom, and that's why I want to go back to Madrid." What a confession, Mr. Feijóo! And little respect for the Greeks and the Greeks who trusted his word. March 16th: "Fields and ties cost every day 2 million to the Greek fleet. I'm sorry about the gain: there's reservations to feed the animals one week; and while you're like, "This afternoon we meet at home in Galicia." [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Here's the president of Galicia's board of visits to Galicia. That's your portrait, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] What a fool! March 17, "Industry stops milking. The agricultural sector in critical state because of the lack of cereals; and while you're like, "Thank you Cantabria for so much illusion!" March 18th: "Entreprises of milk, fish and meat have to take their products out. Greek businessmen warn of a collapse of the economy; and while you: "Friends of Castilla and León, Andalusia, Ceuta and Melilla, see you tomorrow." [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I would rather, Mr. Feijóo, save this chamber other headlines, as to what a mother has already answered to her who has lost what she most wanted and who has shown the dignity that you lack, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Because while Mr. Feijóo was focused on his political and personal ambitions, tons of milk and tons of fish were thrown out in this country. Companies and sectors to the limit, and the Greeks and the Greeks fighting to be able to pay the bill of light, fuel, and the shopping basket. And we know that before this crisis, more than half of the Greeks and Greeks didn't reach the end of the month, imagine how they have to be today! And today what we have is a more propaganda exercise that doesn't come to put any real action on the table or help to get out of this crisis. And we have very clear that all governments, including the Galician Union, have to act, each one has its own responsibilities, but what is wrong is to put others' duties when he has his own failings, Mr. Feijóo. Because today what we have is propaganda. And I invite all of you and all of you to the information of the board of directors, of that board of directors on 17 March, where no single measure has been approved. You took a report there, Mr. Feijóo, did not take a single measure. Propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. [[Applause]] The first propaganda, now, of course, that we have a situation of absolutely unabated light, and you say it will strengthen the social bond. But it's just that you should fall in shame, because this Sunday ended the winter and the families of this country didn't have the help of that electric social bonus, Mr. Feijóo, because you didn't summon them even though you had resources since December. It's a shame, that's the propaganda we have every day on the side of the board. [[Murmurs.]] That's why the first propaganda was the social bonus. The second propaganda was help to the gain. There's not a single new help, what he tells them is that he'll give them what's theirs, Mr. Feijóo. They can't treat the people of this country like that. The third propaganda, the fishing aid. Fourth aid to the peers. And yet, Mr. Feijóo, propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. Tell us, otherwise, that the DOG is published these aids. Because you said it very well: people who can't pay their bills can't keep waiting for their incompetence. [[Applause]] And I have to tell you that this is a coat of hair to all the Greeks and Greeks who are at a time of great difficulty. And we miss him acting. Because, I wonder, Mr Feijóo, what prevents you from sitting in the transport sector to claim that there are measures allowing those runners of what you are talking about? Why don't you sit down and negotiate, why don't you want to talk to those sectors? That would be in his hand because we also know that this is affecting Galicia much more than other areas. And we, of course, have quite clear that you can't just keep your arms crossed. We have a very serious problem because Galicia is really in a worse situation, and it's in a worse situation because during these years what you've done has been ruining this country. Yes, yes, it's curious that someone who did the only thing to do was make the farm less, that the fishing was less, that we had 200,000 boys and girls in emigration, that had closed companies without you moving your finger. Because, Mr. Feijóo, what did you do to keep the vats from stopping at Alcoa? It would be nice if I told you. You know what he did? Vetting an electric tariff from Galicia. That's your contribution to the industry in this country. [[Applause]] Your recipe is actually to dismantle the public, that's your recipe. And, of course, Mr. Feijó, we want to leave here a very clear message. [[Murmurs.]] Since the BNG we're going to continue working to give hope to this country, we're going to leave the skin to get the working class forward; the self-employed people; the livestock and the women who work very hard on their farms and who, thanks to them, have quality food; the people of the sea, who come out every day to fight and who is a very difficult job; the workers and transport workers, who were — we saw — essential in the pandemic and who make it all work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll continue to hand them over to those men and women who open business every day, their business, and also to all families who are suffering so that they can reach the end of the month. They know they can count on BNG to get out ahead and get through this crisis. And we have measures in the short and medium term, but we believe that at a time of emergency like this, Mr Feijóo, we must apply some immediately. First, the agricultural sector is launching a SOS, and what this government has to do is comply with the Food Chain Act and prevent the sale of losses in the sector. They define what the prices are and stop throwing balloons out. Secondly, guarantee you the supply of thought at reasonable prices. Why not a public purchase that makes it viable right now? Third. We must defend that a maximum price must be set for electricity throughout the primary sector, and that this whole primary sector, from the farmer to the fisherman, what they need right now are extraordinary aids, which can be put on the table if there is political will. We think it's essential to maintain the fuel subsidies for the fishing fleet. That we must also guarantee public intervention so that the prices of hydrocarbons and light do not continue to rise. It is necessary to temporarily reduce taxes on fuels and also electricity, and that you have in your hand, for example, to help transporters in this country. Why don't you lower the rates on the highways? I'm sure if you'd applaud that measure, you can still announce it and, most importantly, you can do it. We must act immediately on the energy market in this country. Because it's funny, isn't it, the right says lower taxes, but he doesn't want to go in and lower the profits to the big electricians who've been caught in this crisis. Are you going to defend that if you put an end to those fallen benefits from the sky and stop vetoing a Welsh electric tariff? [[Applause]] It would be, Mr. Feijóo, a good contribution. And finally, we also have to help who's worst going through this crisis. We think we have to raise people's pensions and salaries. And you have in your hand to help people who have the lowest pensions in this country. Why don't we raise the autonomic supplement to non-contributory pensions by EUR 100 a month in the midst of this crisis? I'm sure the people who go through it worse would appreciate it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u58	...very this measure. As you see, Mr. Feijóo, there are many things you could be doing. Unfortunately today he came here to miss an opportunity and miss out on the Greeks and the Greeks, because this is not a rally of the People's Party or the Senate, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, for his tranquillity, because I see him particularly tense about this matter, the President of the Government of the State has planned to come next Wednesday 30th to take account of the agreements taken at the European Council on Thursday and Friday, and also to talk to him about politics, which I see him very concerned about the foreign policy of the Kingdom of Spain with regard to Sahara. There you will receive and we will receive all the relevant explanations from the President of the Government. [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo, 4/5 parts of his appearance — and I am being particularly flexible and kind with that proportion — were unfortunately a candidate for the presidency of the Government of the State, were unfortunately a president of the People's Party who, by the way, congratulated by that very renecisive content in which you have been involved these last days, in any case, I congratulate him, but 4/5 parts of that appearance were to put on duty to the Government of the State. And I'm glad to see you here after several weeks of campaign going through Spain. By the way, and I share it with Mrs. Pontón, when I entered, I entered the street of Horreo and when I heard it I thought it was at Court Square. Of course, looking at the president, I realized that it wasn't Mrs. Batet and I said, no, I'm still in the Galician Parliament. But, Mr Feijóo, you had the opportunity to appear in this Parliament requesting an urgent appearance or even calling for an extraordinary full call. But no, he had to be brought here, they had to accept a request from the opposition to carry out this appearance. And why? Because you weren't here. The emergency didn't show up this Tuesday, the emergency was actually already for months and, in particular, worsened for weeks. And the fact is that the People's Party, at the Speaker's Board that took place last week, said that this attendance was not necessary because it was enough with the presence of the Middle Rural Counsellor, to whom I regret I have no opportunity to explain to us the serious crisis of the sector and the concrete measures I am sure that you have designed to deal with this particular situation. Finally, a critical time when the Galician Union took few measures, some of them cosmetics. You know perfectly well that the measures you announced at last week's board of directors are fine, I'm not going to deny it, but they have practically no economic impact on Galician board. And, in that sense, the level of commitment is quite questionable. I mean, there was no forceful measure, it would be, well planned, that is part of a harmonic context, beyond that you've also announced that they're going to approve at the board of directors this week. All the rest were duties for the Government of the State. Because, of course, you and your government have no competition. The Autonomy Statute is full of empty words of content, because in practice all of your speech, all solutions revolve solely and exclusively about an external agent, which is what you always do with the policy of the Galician Union. State responsibility always when — yes — the State is not governed by the People's Party, because otherwise there is an area of co-responsibility that you always deny. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we need to make an economic policy to succeed in the most efficient and dynamic destination of public resources, which I think we share, because it is necessary to guarantee reasonable levels of equity and social welfare. We must therefore have an economic policy at the right time. We have to be right among all, and when I say among all, I speak of the European Union, I speak of the State Government — yes, too, but also of the Galician Union — to succeed and sink into a sustainable and positive recovery line. At this time, the agreements and income pacts are relevant to distribute costs and benefits, but also to bet on supply policies in the industrial field and to reformulate aspects of tax policy in a new context; and there is also the co-responsibility of the Galician Union. And now that the State Government has branded a new time in the decisions of European institutions in betting on large investment packages, with programs like Next Generation, etc.; or a government that raised the minimum interprofessional wage, which established the minimum vital income, which developed the ERTEs, the citizen knows that it is not the same when he governs the left than when he governs the right. Because right now, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you just put on the table a decade of measures for the State Government and just announced 5 or 6 — if I didn't take the wrong note, and if you don't, you will correct me, I'm sure you'll correct me in any case what you say — but practically nothing for the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And we have also proposed a decalogue, a decalogue of measures to be taken: such as the reduction of fees in self-government highways. Are you going to do it? Yes or no? A plan of aid to self-employed and professional people to compensate for the increase in transport costs, in which everyone, absolutely agrees and we are extremely concerned. You won't think that because the Socialist Party is ruling in the state, we don't share the concern you just referred to. Obviously, there is a strategic sector that is in a situation derived from other things from the rise of fuels, which requires also coordinated action, of course, by the Government of the State. We will ask the Government of the State to take measures to make this situation more flexible, to minimize it. But by the way, that help that you just announced 3 and a half million euros to shield public transport by road, do you really think it's going to solve the problem efficiently, or is it a figure to satisfy the sector and to give the population the sense that action is being taken? We also believe that there is a need for a change in the regulation of the electricity market, and there is also the Government of the State, of course. Because it's necessary to unlink the price of electricity to families and gas-priced companies, making it possible to significantly reduce the cost of electricity and demand the reduction of taxes on the electricity and gas grid. We have to be able to give a legislative boost, after identifying the strategic projects of the autonomous community, aimed at raising energy self-sufficiency at low cost, both for domestic and industrial supply. You may also, I understand, somehow reduce the autonomic stretch of the IRPF for those people who are not obliged to file income statements but who have income that if they are subject to retention, and also negotiate, yes, with the State, a parallel discount. You turn the Igape into an effective tool that enables a fund of assets and liquidity to ensure the viability of companies affected particularly by the closure of the Russian and Ukrainian markets, always, that is, that it is not disengaged from the maintenance of employment. And you did, which does not surprise us at the very least, a whole series of criticisms to the Government of the State, but I think you can't deny even yourself at all, and it's already difficult, that the Government of the State was acting and continues to act in the field of energy, driving the deployment of renewable energies, taking legislative measures to exchange the system established by the People's Party that gives undeserved benefits to electrical companies or urgent measures for the reduction and even the elimination of taxes linked to the generation. Yesterday it was announced, that you seem to have caused a certain grace or put you on a certain, dangerous argument, by the way, because here perhaps in a short time there is a counselor or counselor who will be questioned about a strike that had called certain workers' groups, in an area that depends solely on the Council of Galicia. So, of course, making jokes with a matter as serious as the transport sector, which is obviously linked to supply, in many areas, but which has its complexity, after the Government announced an investment of 500 million euros, by the way, a hundred more than the French Government will put into effect, to which you so much admire, that it will implement measures which have not yet entered into force, if I am not well informed, will come into force on April 1st. But that's irrelevant to you. You laugh because another employer in the transport sector summons a strike or adds to the strike after having a meeting with the ministry. That's very funny to you. Or in the gang, when we have a problem with the price of structural milk, because the problem of livestock, obviously aggravated by the current situation, did not appear yesterday, and did not appear in November when you sent that famous letter to the Government of the State within your postal habit, that problem has already existed and you have been ruling the Council of Galicia for 13 years. So something will have to do with the serious crisis that is going on with the gain right now. And they announce anecdotal measures for the agricultural sector. That seems good to us, that it seems good to us to advance the CAP's aid, it's a matter that we obviously agree on, or that they give us help for liquidity, but you know that's not going to solve the serious problems you have. Or in the field of fisheries, where the Government of the State initiative is indeed yesterday, the European Commission has announced that the crisis mechanism under the European Maritime Fund Regulation for Fisheries and Aquaculture will be activated in the coming days. Another manifest error in the State Government. Mr Feijóo, you have finally come today to announce all these measures that you said once you finished your journey to Spain. Measures that led him to announce the chicle considerably about ten minutes of his intervention, the rest was to make public a decalogue of obligations for the Government of the State, and I am left with an important doubt about that decalogue, and is whether it is being done by the President of the Council of Galicia or is being done by the President of the People's Party using the Galician Parliament for a national projection which he currently does not have, because of course that you accepted this meeting today is not the result of the chance—so we even arrived here. [[Applause]] I mean, you need a projection forum while you don't have another one, we'll see who you get out of the Senate or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u62	...that's a problem with you, I'm not going to get in there. But you need a projection area that you currently don't have and uses the Galician Parliament, unfortunately of the Greeks and the Greeks, to project your image for the entire state. And that, Mr Núñez Feijóo, is quite ugly. It leaves this autonomous community in quite a bad place and leaves and quite a bad place to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u64	...—if I finish, Mr President—and it leaves the President of the Galician Union quite badly. I would like to make a final reflection, which I think very well of all the measures you have just announced to deal with the crisis of the refugees of Ukraine, but, without denying the importance and convenience of those measures, I have to tell you that you are not being pioneers for once either, because many of those measures are being adopted, fortunately, in other autonomous communities, because of course, a coordinated and loyal response must be given between the state and the autonomous communities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u65	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin by thanking the president of the board for accepting the opposition's request. As we have already said, it seems to us that this is an extraordinary moment that certainly requires the President to face up. [[Applause]] It is not surprising to us, of course, that the President appears in this House and faces it, he did so during the financial crisis that we had since 2009; he did so, of course, in agreement with all the groups during the Covid crisis; and, of course, he does so now that we are experiencing another crisis possibly of immediate effects worse than all the previous ones in the economic field. Well, secondly, I'd like to say that exactly a month ago the war in Ukraine began. This invasion, this criminal aggression of the Putin Government — which I want to take advantage of to condemn again without a small letter, without means of ink — because this war is an attack on freedom, democracy, international legality, and of course we not only condemn it but we support those who are defending democracy, international legality and security; that is, the countries that are our allies through the European Union and through the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty. [[Applause]] In a situation similar to that we are living today, shortly after November of the year 39, shortly after the invasion of Poland by the Nazi troops, Camus in his diary noted an entry saying, "Gisele and war," and at the entry he says, "No, I don't read newspapers, I only care about time. On Sunday I'll take a trip to the countryside and take the umbrella." If we read today's press, that of the day the president is coming here, what we see is that, for example, the first gas closures due to lack of fuel, consumers are responding to a greater risk of depletion. The law of the chain that should come out, remove the fleet the field is turned against the Government. Calvo, the company closes for three days. The Star of Galicia draws or stops escorted. The industry is resent in Galicia, lack of metal and prices are excessive. Yellow metal with steel for only two months. On the web online we can read this same morning: Ferroatlantica closes production due to lack of material. Danone just stopped his production too. Of course, the boycott to slaughterhouses endangers the supply of meat. There are risks of immediate collapse of the farms. And even in the public domain, supply problems that could delay the work of the new CHUAC, and also measures to supply health supplies to hospitals. The range of the Coruña with a million losses and a lack of supplies in the factories. And so on, we took the diary we took, even in the newspapers part of the Galician fleet stays and I carry while the unemployed arrive at the canteens. All the press in all the colors give very similar headlines. Well, the result is as a result of an invasion that falls on a previous situation that is the one that causes what we are living in. We know that with Covid there were bottlenecks, supply crises, lack of supplies, lack of energy, rising prices, demand for savings also grows. As a result, production is interrupted and production is not achieved. There is inflation with devastating effects both in incomes and taxes, with the effect of cold inflation, which is a tax that benefits the authorities who collect, and in particular in this case the one left with the collection, which is the central government. And, of course, in a compromised situation, the European Central Bank when the Federal Reserve rises the interest rates and the European Central Bank aims at 2% inflation. Well, before the war we had an inflation of 7.6. Two months before the war we were already one of the most expensive countries in the European Union; two months before the war, the Spaniards had already paid the highest bill of light in our history; and two months before the war, gas and hydrocarbons had already been shot, overcoming all historical series. Certainly, the war came to add more despair; the headlines show despair, a despair because the situation that was bad worsened as a result of an illegitimate and illegal invasion. We can consider it a stupid act or even, by returning to Camus, which is absurd. Camus, in another entry, already when the war was much more advanced in 43, wrote in his diary: "Setting the question of the absurd world is to ask: shall we accept despair without doing anything? I suppose no honest person can answer yes." Well, that's the point. In the face of a situation that we don't understand is absurd and illegal, the question is who does something and who doesn't do anything. And certainly in the presence of the president it became clear, it became meridianly clear, although some seem not to listen to the appearances they request, the content of them, it became clear that the Government of the Union is acting. First, it is acting with loyalty to the Government of Spain, in that agenda which Mrs Pontón had to narrate well, of course omitted all official matters; for example, that in the trip to the Canary Islands the president promoted and reached an agreement of all autonomous presidents, including the nationalists, and the President of Spain, of the President of the Government of Spain, in which it was decided that all administrations supported the Government in their position before the European Council. It was requested and agreed to promote the execution of European funds, to coordinate the reception of Ukrainian refugees or to put in place a national plan to respond to the consequences of the Ukrainian war in Spain; an open and dynamic plan that will be configured through dialogue and will develop with autonomous communities, parliamentary forces, social services, taking into account the most vulnerable groups. Well, ten days later, there's nothing, absolutely inaction. There was an inaction when all countries decided to send weapons and the Government went after. There is inaction with the refugees, because there are NGOs and private people in front of the Government itself and, of course, we are also behind economic measures. This government, of course, that does nothing, contrasts even if you don't want to hear it, with what the president of the board said. The president of the board, and I would like to thank the PSOE spokesperson, who at least said that the means adopted in the last council are fine, because he approved the thermal social bonus, injecting liquid into the livestock sector, subsidizing as compensation the professionals of the payout of the two months of the port charges, extraordinary injection of something more than 3.5 million to shield public transport. Today it has just announced several more measures: a new line of Igape's assets, a direct loan programme for 70 million euros; additionally for companies that are experiencing difficulties and already have direct funding from the Board or some mechanisms to make their payments more flexible; in the energy sector, the bond of energy has been activated, in this case aimed at trade, hospitality and small and medium-sized enterprises, for equipment, 65 million euros. Another of the most affected sectors, the tourist, has a new activation of the tourist bonus, almost 8 million euros. And to help families and face the bill of light, Junta reinforces the measures that it already has activated for more than 23 million euros, asking for funds to double electrical and renewable consumption. The Union was not inhibited, the Union acted. Interestingly, Mrs. Pontón came here with a series of alternative measures and asked for them at the board. There are two who are classics, the classic Greek electric tariff, when we all know that Galicia — which is in the Iberian market, not in Spanish — has higher rates as a result not that there is an electric tariff in Galicia — which could not be very different, as we saw with the public companies that have stayed here in other cities, in some cities in the left — but that it could even be counterproductive for the cost of distributing energy in Galicia, and bring us measures... and the second public intervention, of course — seems to be all arranged if there is public intervention; and bring us the Food Chain Law, lower taxes, mark them to electrical companies plus profits, pensions, wages... and that is all that is the responsibility of the State. [[Laughter]] And it is critical that the President, who has presented several measures of autonomous competition, and you come with proposals that basically some are already debated — and we know that they are irrealisible and counterproductive — but others that are the Government of the State. By the way, the Government of the State you voted for and you supported, with which you signed an agreement. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, there is a third block of constructive proposals from BNG. The BNG has convened on 3 April demonstrations throughout Galicia, but not to protest against the Government of Spain, but to protest against the Union, which, as she herself knows, has no competence in areas where priority must be exercised according to it. [[Murmurs.]] That is why we also support the demands of the 10 urgent measures of the Government of Spain which the President has just tabled. Measures which the Council of Ministers could adopt today. Measures that would greatly reduce the difficulties that thousands of professionals, thousands of companies are experiencing, and would open a door to the progressive exit of this crisis. And precisely here — if you look at the proposals to the Government of Spain — there are no ideological measures, for example, to make it all public. What are practical, direct, urgent and immediate measures of application, palliative measures that would help minimize or reduce the damage to the crisis and start working on the solution. And the question is why do we have to wait? The situation is becoming more complex and dramatic. And I'll go back to the beginning. Faced with the problems that, as in the myth of Sisifus, people have been plagued over time, there are two attitudes — as Camus said — to act even by mistaking but addressing the problems with responsibility and with interest in solving them; or, as Giselle de Camus does, without reality, taking the umbrella and marching to the field. Unfortunately, for those who see the time of the next few days, you don't have to wear a umbrella, you have to carry a umbrella. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u67	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I confess that I never thought they could criticize me for doing what I'm asked to do, but after 13 years in this Parliament and four in the opposition there is still something we can learn. If they ask me to appear and not do it, they criticize me; if they ask me to appear and appear, even worse; if they say I'm not in Galicia and I don't give explanations, they criticize me; and if I'm in this Parliament announcing new measures, they also criticize me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I think it's time for them to agree, right? [[Murmurs.]] I understand that this is very difficult because the fault of all that is happening in Spain is that of Mr Feijóo and the Socialist Party, who is rightly the one with whom the BNG governs. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that everything we hear here — except for some thoughtful demonstration by the spokesman of the Socialist Party — probably those who have expressed it because I don't think it's the best turn of speeches from your parliamentary career. It would be good if they agreed with themselves, the nationalists among themselves — I know that it is a lot to ask — made that the spokesperson for the BNG did not signal a minimum about the Ukrainian refugees. There is no such thing as a humanitarian matter. [[Murmurs.]] Since there is NATO, there is no problem with the Ukrainian refugees. [[Murmurs.]] That's why I say it would be good for the nationalists to agree with themselves and for our friend Álvarez, man, to come here to suck because the president of the Government of Spain will appear to be — on the 30th. And mark me because I don't appear urgently, it'll be a joke, Mr. Álvarez! It will be a joke that the Spanish Prime Minister doesn't appear until the 30th in the Courts and you tell him here an autonomic president who doesn't appear before? I understand, Your Honor, that you've been through this teletype and you haven't thought about it, but you'll have time to reflect on the replica. Well, it's all right, don't think about it, you keep saying that the president of the government is coming very soon, and very late, an autonomic president. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, I've actually been working, as you will understand, I'm not going to get nervous after a while for some comments I think they're not fair, honestly I say, but you'll know. Look, in that periployment of what the nationalist says that this looks like a Senate House; if this was the Senate, the BNG couldn't talk about because it has no representation. Therefore, Your Honor, less bad than in the Galician Parliament, the BNG is represented. [[Murmurs.]] He comments a kind Member of the BNG who has been short to be represented, but they do not have it. [[Applause]] We've missed a seat for most absolutes and ruled the BNG, imagine if we're used to being short. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, with all due respect, actually, taking the calendar, Mr Feijóo was three days away from Galicia. I understand that getting out of Galicia for a nationalist is an outrage to the nation, but for a Greek to get out of Galicia it's normal. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] It's normal because it's good that things are agreed outside Galicia that benefit Galicia, such as, for example, that there's a coordination to accommodate refugees; like, for example, to support the Government of Spain, the Government of the BNG too, because the Government of Spain is the Government of the BNG, not only because they're allies, but because it's also the Government of the nation and therefore it's the Government of all the Greeks, we like it or not — BNG likes it, we don't like it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, well, we are in favour of the Government of Spain in its position, in the proposals of the European Union and NATO. [[Murmurs.]] We support the Government of Spain on those exits you refer to. And we actually lead an agreement to lower taxes. I can assure you that it cost a lot; as it was not intended to specify that tax was lower there was no agreement and there was an institutional statement, because in the institutional statement they agreed to include an increase in the tax reduction. So, how come we don't work? Is lower taxes not of interest to the Greek families? Doesn't it interest our industry? Aren't you interested in sailors? You don't care about the conservation sector? Don't you care about the gain? And asking me here to lower the taxes of the Government of Spain is a very surprising thing. I understand that you no longer know how I look, but I am the President of Galicia; I cannot lower taxes from the Government of Spain, Mr. Álvarez, nor can I impose an electric tariff that prejudices Galicia, Mrs. Pontón. The question that must be asked most of the Greeks is where is the President of the Government of Spain? That's right. Where is Galicia's opposition we always know where it is. Since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine, the only thing we know about the BNG has hindered the institutional declaration of the Galician Parliament against the Russian war on Ukraine. We know that and is, of course, part of the history of BNG. And we know that PSOE is presenting initiatives asking the Board for everything that is unwilling to do the Government of Spain. All that the Government of Spain has not done or is expected to ask the Council of Galicia with that decadence of what we will talk about later, Mr. Álvarez, since you brought it up to the collation. She says Mrs. Pontón that we did not propose any measures. No, we've put forward no measures, no, we've proposed 10 measures, 10 measures!, they're here exposed one by one and concrete, 10 measures. I will propose the measures proposed by the Government of Spain — which is easy — these are the measures proposed by the Central Government after 26 days after the war of Ukraine began, 26 days, a blank folio. [[Laughter]] So, agitating the social thermal bond, it says if we don't pay the social thermal bonus in winter; Your Honor, we have paid a thermal bonus since the year 2014, above the central government electric bonds: in the year 14, in the year 17, last year, and this year. It's unfortunate that you treat Galicia like this, 26,000 people collected the Galician board bonus in 2014. The electric ticket in 2016 we increase it again. In 2017 we were pioneers in the Energy Efficiency and Accessibility Act and in 2018 we were the first autonomous community to increase the state electric bond. Why don't you say you don't charge the electric bond in Galicia, when we're the autonomous community that includes more measures than the central government and that we've been pioneers in this measure? What did the bipartite do about energy? Sky! Even from the point of view of open files, the bipartite opened 9 files to electricity and many of them with 97,000 euros. This government opened 3,194 electrical files and we piled them up with 26 million euros. Who agrees with the electricians when they don't do it, Your Honor? Of course, not the Galician People's Party. The bipartite, you don't know. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But in addition, we will remember that these same groups that today teach lessons about what to do with electricity issues, when in Spain the megawatt was at 50 euros, these same groups called minutes of silence for energy poverty. Now that it's over 200 euros, I don't hear BNG say anything about energy, except to blame the President of Galicia. This is also part of the history of Greek nationalism; therefore, each one has his own history and is good for reflecting it. [[Murmurs.]] See — in all respects — that the BNG proposes measures for industry, after it is in favour of closing the thermals, and after it insists and persists in the closure of Ence before the war in Ukraine, during the war in Ukraine — and I am convinced that afterwards. But what industry are you talking about, what do you want to dismantle or what do you want to preserve? Ladies and gentlemen, we don't sit down with the transport sector; Mrs. Pontón, if there was a lie detector, it would have been constant and continuous, the transport advisor sat down with the transport sector on Tuesday 15. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Transport Counsellor, the Middle Rural Counsellor and the Sea Counsellor sat back on Friday, 25. And the Transport Advisor sat back on Sunday 27. How come the Joint Government doesn't work? Yes, Sundays we talk, too, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, last Sunday... - I'm sorry about the date, what day was last Sunday? - Well, on the 20th, actually, I was wrong for the week, there's no problem presenting myself again this week, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, how come we don't talk to the transport sector? The safe corridors were a proposal from the Galician Union to this sector. The safe corridors to take out the milk, to take out the fish and take out the meat was a proposal from the Galician Union to this sector that we made clearly and explicitly. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that you have such a bad concept of what Galicia is capable of doing, but I can assure you that we continue to work every day regardless of whether there are things that are not appropriate to explain, because speaking is an obligation of a Government, and doing what is done is already a different policy than we do not share. In any case, the truth is that we are at a time of extraordinary difficulty that we bring here concrete proposals and that we bring a number of explicit measures, which cost the autonomous community directly. And there's a very surprising measure for everyone, isn't there? What it is: Mr. Feijóo only asks the Central Government for proposals. Lowering the EVV is a proposal to the Central Government? If the VAT is lowered, will the Government of Spain have an impact on whether or not the drop in the collection in the autonomous communities? Yes. If the PSOE already says it's going to take us money, does it show that this proposal is from the PSOE? If we renounce 50% of the collection increased by the tax base throughout this time, it will be a proposal from the autonomous community. Because 50% is for the Central Government and 50% is for the Autonomous Communities. So, how come we don't propose measures? We plan measures from responsibility, we propose measures that directly affect the pockets of the Greeks. We plan measures that impact both central policy and autonomous policy, and these are the first measures that we put ourselves in the face of an absolute inoperence and sovereignty of the central government that does not even, as is a proposal by the People's Party, is not even willing to study. If those measures were implemented weeks ago, we wouldn't have this chaos that we have right now in our country. So, Mr. Álvarez, I ask you a little respect for the autonomous Fairy. I understood that the PSOE proposal was: we're going to lower the EVV and we're not going to impact that drop on the income of the autonomous community. If the proposal of the Socialists and their partners is now to lower the VAT and impact 50% of the collection on the Autonomous Community Farm, what importance is that measure? We assume responsibility, so we transfer it to the ministers at the Conference of Presidents. And it wasn't just us, it was most autonomic presidents. In the situation in which we are, if a litre of gasoline had a cost of 1 euro and we raised 21%, and now it's about 2 euros, we're going to collect twice as much. If the state's general budget is made with a forecast of revenues from the 60-euro oil barrel and the oil barrel is about 120 euros, it seems reasonable to make a tax adjustment. And we did it from the responsibility of the autonomous community. So the wet core of the measures are proposed by an autonomous community that will have so much impact on the central government. Mr. Álvarez, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry again to confirm that you are not here to speak, but simply to criticize yourself. But, of course, we've been in this situation for quite a while and I'd be surprised that you haven't changed your proposal right now. Although I think it would be the most reasonable, because at the moment changing the proposal is the most reasonable that people are waiting for. Mr. Álvarez, say you have to lower taxes, when you've only gone up to the government since you arrived. Look, you get company tax, you get tax on housing owners, you get tax on diesel, you get tax on vehicle registration, you increase your annual fee or you raise an annual fee on all national highways, you get tax on plastics, you get new tax on plane tickets, you get tax on pension plans, you get tax on maximum rates, you go up the IRPF, you go up, and you go down several times to harmonize the tax on succession and property. And here they're preventing us, according to the German civil right, from being taxed by inheritances in life. So far they do, Your Honor, invade the tax powers of the autonomous community on the basis of German civil law. And a mother or a father can't leave a flat alive to a son or a daughter because you've gone through it. So this lowers the taxes that the People's Party of Galicia is asking for exactly what do you mean? First of all, you all know, you invade our tax, tax powers in the field of civil law, and now you give us lessons in lowering taxes. It wouldn't be, Your Honor, something unheard of what we're hearing right now. And I say it with utmost courtesy. Look, the decalogue of your actions. It's funny. I propose a decalo of measures to the Government of Spain after presenting a decalo of measures approved by the Union and criticised me. And yet the representative of the Socialist Party proposed to an autonomous community a step-by-step action since he was unwilling to adopt any. But you'll understand that it's at least a nice thing if it wasn't for the dramatic situation that we're living in. I have to apologize to Mr. Caballero because often he criticizes me because he was just a spokesman for Mr. Sánchez, but in the short time that he's been, Mr. Álvarez, he makes me apologize to Mr. Caballero because you've just won him in a week, he really wins him for gulping. Well, something has to win, that's clear. But to reduce the costs of self-sustainment, a small proposal by the Socialist Party. They're the cheapest beaches in Spain. More than a decade by applying bonuses to recurrent users, 25% travel back and forth. Ten years ago. They've been 50 percent on the second round, and they've been on the clock since 2010. Since 2019 we have applied 50% nighttime bonuses and since 2021 we have approved 100% return travel to numerous families. You heard the carriers saying that this was not the problem: the reduction in the rates of autonomic highways, which was not the problem. That they will understand that they are centimes, Your Honor, but let's say that when you do the merchandise at night they are absolutely already lowered. Second proposal: lower ITV rates. But really a government that doesn't lower the EVI to gasoline and gasoline proposes to an autonomous government that lowers the rates of the Technical Inspection of Vehicles, which must be done from a year's seniority of the vehicle itself. But did you really think about this proposal? But besides, they don't even know that we're not going to increase ITV prices and that we're not going to increase them by 7.6% that would correspond to the IPC. So we're already lowering them. Third proposal. Self-directed aid plan to compensate for increases in transport costs. We have already said that the transport that depends on us, the transport of passengers by road, the transport of health and urgency, and we are evaluating the transport of education, we are taking measures. Do you ask him to transport passengers by road if it seems to them that this is an unfair measure that we have just realized? Look, it's about maintaining the concessional balance, there are the measures. A moratorium on the depreciation of receivables, eliminating port rates in the ports of the autonomous community, and you don't want to eliminate them in the ports of general interest of the state, and you're going to consider reducing the costs of the autonomous. Fourth measure. Push the change in the regulation of the electric market. But don't you know that this is a state-exclusive competition? Do you really think we can drive the change of the electricity market? But it's the proposal that they make me to unlink the price of electricity to families, gas price companies, etc. Well, we don't oppose this, but this is not our measure, as you know. It's a proposed measure to lower the VAT that affects the autonomic farm. And if we agree and 50% of the load we assume, why don't we assume 50% of the burden on the Central Government? Identify a legislative impulse for strategic projects aimed at raising energy self-sufficiency. But if they already exist. The Law of Economic Reactivation for the Incentive of Strategic Industrial Projects, which you voted against. But if 74.3 of the electricity produced in Galicia is with renewable sources, exceeding Spain's goal in 2030. If every time we try to put more renewable energy, we have a platform sponsored by nationalists, with the visa and regrettably pleasing in many socialist places. Is that what you think should be Galician energy policy? Reduction of port tariffs by 75%. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to reduce them by 75%, we've already reduced them by 100%. Two months extendable. But do you think it's necessary to do it much longer? Do you think you're not going to solve any problems with the Government that we currently have in Spain? Well, I understand you're not very optimistic about your own government. I hope to be a little bit more optimistic than you, because, if we can't get the fish out in more than two months, how will you understand that from the harbour fees will be a tip. Look, modify the board's budgets to approve a social plan of assistance to the most vulnerable families. But if we just tripled the electric social bond, the electric social bond that has been in force since 2014. But if we really are from autonomous communities that are more supportive of vulnerable families and should know and not come here just to give a headline. Recast of the Board's basic card for the provision of refugees to Ukraine. But if we are available for social integration income, which we hope will be financed by the refugee plan which, according to the Government of Spain, will be financed by European funds. So that whole decadeg -- and we've got 8 -- down the IRPF, this is an interesting proposal by the socialists. Look, Your Honor, you always, always, always voted against lowering the IRPF, always. We just dropped the IRPF a few months ago, against it. Since we arrived in the Government we have lowered taxes for a value of EUR 1 billion. Less IRPF is paid in low incomes in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. Succession tax has been eliminated for 99.9 % of the Greeks. Zero taxes since 2016 in rural areas. No autonomous community in Spain has. We lowered the tax on property transmissions, the tax on documented legal acts. Zero taxes to buy industrial soil in the hands of the Public Administration. Less IRPF and less wealth tax to rehabilitate historical helmets. And we did it again in 2022, all these measures against the opposition. Now that we talk so much about people, now that we care so much about people's purchasing power, now that we realize that people need solutions and don't describe problems, now we realize that we have to lower taxes, we actually have to lower taxes. Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with lower tax pressure on income tax to natural persons for 68% of the taxpayers. So to say that this government has to lower taxes... look, when now a Greek pays an average of 403 euros less in income tax than when you were ruling in 2009, 13 years later. That's lower taxes, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Therefore, with all due respect, Mr Álvarez, we have studied with great interest his Decal, 70% is accomplished and the rest is the competence of the Central Government. See if you want to send another one, we can send another one. It would be good if you had sent a decalo for an autonomous government and, in passing, you had given us a copy of the central government decalo so that you could complement it and coordinate it. I finish the shift, it is very symptomatic the attitude of the opposition in the Galician Parliament in this appearance. First they ask her to criticize us if we don't accept her, and then they criticize us for accepting her. A fellow member of the parliamentary group told me: "Hey, be careful you don't accept the appearance," it's not gonna be told that you want to do it. It's general politics, state politics. And I ask: but can the President of Galicia not present the opposition proposal in your Parliament? Is that an antidemocratic tic? I understand that as you've never done on the part of the bipartisan, it may seem a bit surprising. I understand, Your Honor, that this group for four years with an absolute majority minus one seat could only interview the president once every time. You interpell all the time, as it should be. And that's how it'll go on. By the way, the House's group doesn't ask the president in oral question not to do the ridicule as BNG and PSOE did during all the years of the bipartisan. [[Applause]] But at last, once again we've been criticized for one thing and for the other, and we've used to charge against an administration that's taking action, and concealing the PSOE's pact with BNG and BNG with PSOE. Look, in my first intervention, I proposed to the Central Government a number of measures after realising the measures that we have previously activated. But at the very least, I want to admit to Mr. Sánchez that he is very creative in seeking out responsible, and his ministers much more. It turns out that all these autonomous ones with which the BNG tells us to meet because it turns out they were all extremely right, according to the ministers of the Government of Spain, yes. And that's why they haven't met now. We have a conflict on every road in the country and they don't even meet with the autonomous people who started the conflict. The opposition here is easier, here is all the guilt of Feijóo and that's it. You don't have to be very creative. I suppose that since Mrs Pontón doesn't want me to go, because she's going into a crisis of anxiety... with which you continue to constantly and continue to underestimate that the President of Galicia can speak in your Parliament, I think there's a minimum of dignity in the House that we should maintain. [[Murmurs.]] And I have a great opportunity in this second intervention. If for once they want to be constructive, of course we'll listen to them. And if for once they want to put Galicia's interests above the interests of their party, it's time to do so, because we're in a limited position, and really what are the Socialist Party's proposals? And what are the nationalists' proposals? Besides criticizing a government that is capping a time when it has no responsibility, no responsibility for rising prices, no liability for debt, no liability for rising taxes. Your Honor, if for once you want to put alongside the thousands and thousands of the Greeks who are going through it wrong, add up to the proposals, I can assure you, read them, value them and you will see how these proposals have all the common meaning. Take the opportunity, because the vast majority of the Greeks will thank you. So these are proposals taken by the Government, funded by the Government, and I think we can talk about how we can treat the refugees, we should deal with them and implement the proposals and step up the measures, after 26 days of the Ukrainian war, without measures in Spain; and after an index of consumer prices, 7.6 increase before the war in Ukraine, I don't think they deserve to repudiate or criticize a responsible Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u69	Thank you, President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Galego Nationalist Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u70	Mr. Feijóo, I will not enter your indignity. No, no. If you were able to tell moms what they said they lost what they wanted most, I see; I thought you had limits, but I see you're a person who has no limits and, of course, I'm not going into your indignity or disqualification, or insult, or personal attack. Of course, we women are very sick of certain innuendos in politics and certain adjectives, Mr. Feijóo. Yes, yes. [[Applause]] Because look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u71	Silence! Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u72	... Vicar violence is machoism, of course, yes, Mrs. Prado, of course it is. And the serious thing is that it's very important for people out there to have a bad time, that they have problems, that they don't reach the end of the month, but that they don't come before this crisis that's unleashing prices, to see that there's something more than words here, and a government has to answer. [[Applause]] And, of course, it's incredible to see Mr. Feijóo claiming to others that he assumes his powers, he who constantly comes here to tell us that he has no competence at all. The problem to you is not about competence, it's about incompetence, and that incompetence pays for the Greeks and the Greeks, 200,000 boys and girls in emigration; thousands of people who have lost their jobs without you moving a finger. [[Applause]] We also see it when we have fewer industries, when half of this country's dairy farms are closed, under its government, and when poverty rises, when public services deteriorate. And all this, Mr. Feijóo tripled the public debt, the great manager, in which Galicia was indebted if she was leaving a worse future for young people and girls, women and the whole of Greek society. [[Applause]] And, look, I insisted. I think you must have limits, the BNG makes a clear and round condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and it is regrettable, Mr. Feijóo, seeing you use the pain of the Ukrainian people to attack with lies the BNG, lamentable Mr. Feijóo. And you know that from the very first moment the BNG Town Councils have the doors open to accommodate all people, and we have those doors open for Ukraine but also for the refugees of other wars. [[Applause]] Because, Mr. Feijóo, that must be the spirit that always prevails, and to us of course it is what we are going to work on, and I insist, I think it is regrettable that they try to use this to attack the BNG. This Parliament and the Greeks and the Greeks deserve our standing up and deserve our work to get them out of the way. They don't deserve to see the president of the board using this forum to make us a rally of the People's Party, another stop on that election campaign you're involved in. And that's why I'm telling you again, Mr Feijóo, in which the Dog has published the aid for the fisheries sector, for the sea sector, for the transport sector, where are those aids, Mr Feijóo? Because they can't wait for their propaganda, this crisis won't be solved with propaganda. [[Applause]] And I think there are themes that should be measured a little bit. Because, look, in this country we have very serious figures of poverty. The last report tells us that poverty is growing and people are growing in severe poverty. Specifically, there are over 44,000 people in severe poverty, and their help in the electric bond doesn't even reach 4,000, imagine what these 40,000 homes have to be going on. [[Applause]] And tell me, Mr. Feijóo, in which DOG published the aid for the electric bond, because you have at Galicia's board 13.4 million euros, which is almost what Mr. Ignacio Galán charged in one year, to help him with the poverty of families, and no such aid has yet been called, Mr. Feijóo. So agile that call and let this, Mr. Feijóo, not repeat itself. And it's funny that you've talked a lot about taxes, but, Mr. Feijóo, you haven't told us if you want to get into the big profits of the electricians. You want to put an end to those fallen profits from the sky, you want to raise taxation to power companies? Tell us if yes or no, because that's the big question, but, of course, someone who embraces Mr. Ignacio Galán in his possession is clear which side they are on. [[Applause]] And, look, it seems to me great, Mr Feijóo, that you invented the safe corridors, the key is to apply to us in Galicia and negotiate with the transport sector because there were many cooperatives and companies that were negotiating them directly with the carriers so they could get to what they needed. Where was Galician Union? Where was the president? From myth, surely, Mr Feijóo, rather than being focused on the interests of this country. [[Applause]] And we say it very clearly, we have to act for example in the tax burden, yes, but you, on the right, are taking advantage of this crisis to bring about a dismantling of the public...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u74	...—ending—tax reductions have to be temporary in a crisis situation and, of course, do the opposite of what Mr Feijóo has been doing in Galician Union, because what you do is lowering those who have the most, that's their fiscal policy while cutting in health, in public services and in education, and that's what I'm telling you that it's not the BNG model. [[Applause]] Look, we're going to continue working to get this country forward to giving youth, productive sectors, people who are worst going through it right now. And we have proposals — I know it's more important to attend to Mrs. Candia, Mr. Feijóo — Yes, yes, I told her some that we think we should adopt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u76	... in the short term — and end, Mr President — but allow me also, Mr Feijóo, to leave you a file with all the proposals that we believe must be adopted at this time of crisis, and the only thing I ask you with all humility is that at least study it before you go to the Senate and give you solutions to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u78	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, nothing new under the sun, there is unfortunately no change in his speech, everything is to seek guilty outside, denying his competences that he has statutoryly established. Yes, I must regret the use of personal disqualifications. I'd like to see someone in the People's Group if I had made any reference to the anxiety of some honourable Member. I'd like to. [[Applause]] So, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry that you have to listen to these things because they seem to me absolutely outraged by a public debate that is moderately polite. To this, we have to add, of course, — thank you for your always thought-out interventions — the permanent ridicule of the opposition proposals, which you may agree with or not agree with, but at least a minimum of political respect means that you do not regard all the members of the opposition as completely affixed, ignorant and illiterate. [[Laughter]] Mr. Feijó, a little more respect, because you ask for dialogue with the political forces you don't practice here. You don't practice here, because for now the measures we know have been unilaterally adapted by the Galician Union. And I recognized it before we agreed on some of them, we considered them insufficient but undisturbed. He was called for a meeting by the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia. You reject all kinds of help. Are you sure you don't need any external collaboration? Are you in possession of the absolute truth and the insurmountable solution of any crisis? I think a little bit more humility wouldn't be too much to deal with a crisis situation like where we are. Mr. Feijóo, you have a problem I think of as an active listener, because you have not found out that in various phases of my intervention I spoke of the necessary involvement of the State Government in solving this problem. And you, for some reason, didn't hear it. Look, Mr. Feijóo, it's all right with that blank folio joke, to see if he pulls it out on TV -- if he won't get it out anymore -- but Galicia's board isn't that white folio present; that's right, he's presenting an extraordinarily well-equipped program that never meets or evaluates. [[Applause]] So it's not good enough to fill sheets and sheets with useless proposals that won't go anywhere either. But, well, I honestly believe that the situation requires a seriousness and an answer that we all must be up to, you, the BNG and also the PSdG. Of course, tell us about PSdG's collaboration at the moment you, if you think so, call us to meet. There is little time left because I could talk about concrete proposals, such as adapting the Galician Strategic Plan 2021-2030 to the new time that comes forward as a result of the war in Ukraine and the economic situation it has generated; agreeing with Galician social agents on the basis of Galician economic policy in the context of a new price growth scenario; betting on a new industrial policy that addresses the challenges of the Galician industry in the new international context of the crisis; developing economic plans for sectoral action and direct assistance to protect particularly affected companies and sectors; developing policies on the supply side and costs to help the situation of the productive system in a possible scenario of this infringement, etc. We have proposals. If you think they're useless, you're very good at having that opinion and acting from the point of view of government action accordingly. Of course, we offer you proposals, offer you ideas and offer you collaboration to deal with this situation together. And they're going to allow me — because I'm about to finish my time — to have to refer necessarily to the events that you've had ahead of you in the electoral campaign that you've just played. If Madrid is the land of freedom, what is Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] A gulag? Who created this situation of lack of freedom compared to Madrid? [[Pause.]] The fuck you got into with the theme of vicar violence, assuming a radical, far-right speech that humiliates women who are victims of that kind of violence but also humiliates society. You said that the Government of Spain was lining up with fuels, less bad than in its second intervention you recognized that a very important part of that... is that I get out forage — but, of course, forage, with the forgiveness of the Middle Rural Counsellor, it's not — that amount of money also benefits the autonomous communities. You said it was absolutely critical and unthinkable for a politician to inaugurate hospitals that were not paid. Why don't you go around Vigo and see they tell you about that hospital you're not paying? [[Murmurs.]] And finished, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u80	...—ending, yes— with a question that particularly hurts me. It hurts me particularly because I know cases, because I am a father, because I am a reasonably decent person, and also as a teacher I ask you, please, that in this House withdraw the reference to an autistic government, using an extraordinarily serious problem for people suffering from it and their families to make reference... if you want even, look, legitimately using thick adjectives, it can be even reasonable, depending on the politics and dialectic dynamics of each one. But please, I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u82	... as a last intervention, last words, which removes that reference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u83	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u84	...to the autistic people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u86	...in your political debate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u87	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I know that I like that there is cordiality among Members in Parliament, but I cannot help but marvel at the sensitivity of some Members who, for example, the president shortly after the multiple rape that took place in Navarre, because they said there were political orders to address the president; or that he is submissive, or that he is a terminator, or that he is a liar. All of this we hear in this House and therefore I think it's good that everyone tries to correct their language because the reality is that many times they complain who has less reason to complain. Anyway. [[Applause]] He was also called a liar and a mythist. Well, the truth is that the form of a mitin seemed to me more like Mrs. Pontón's intervention than that of the lord... besides even the use of the usual issues. On the issues of electricity, the interest of electricity, the public purchase of thought... as if it were easy and as we've seen with some experience of the ability of public administrations to buy something Galician cooperatives buy every day, and they know where to ask. When we know that the problem of thinking is a problem we have to look at with the European Union to see where they can be imported from. Also intervene the prices and, well, the usual paraphernalia, including calling a liar by the topic of Ukraine. The problem is not that nobody told the Block, their municipalities or the Greek organization that they don't want to take shelters, that they open the doors to the refugees. The problem we have to say to some — and in this case also the Socialist Group — is that you who want to open the door to it are Putin when they ask for the dissolution of NATO, because NATO is the one that guarantees the security of Galicia, Spain and the whole West. That's the difference. [[Applause]] So it turns out that there are those who are surrendering to defend themselves and prevent them from happening in other countries of Europe what is happening with Ukraine because they don't belong to NATO, and you also want to open the doors. [[Applause]] Finally, as always, we have been described by a masochist country that has been punishing itself for 12 years and electing a government and a majority, with more and more support, who is obviously ruining the country. Well, this, I'd try to do an analysis a little bit more rigorous because the conclusions that come up are different. This morning when I came to Parliament I heard on the radio a distinguished socialist, Mr. Madina, who, speaking of whether the Government could do things or could not do things, said: "The important thing is not to talk about the difficulties the Government may have in adopting measures, the important thing is to talk about people's needs." And if we start from that point of view — which I think is very good — and we see what every government is doing to see what people need and solve them, because I think the contrast in today's debate was quite obvious. I believe that the President presented a first battery of measures — as the Socialist Group has acknowledged — Mrs Pontón does not want to hear this — that they were correct measures, which were immediately, agile, and shocking. A first social coverage to minimize the impact on thousands of families and businesses. Of course, today it has expanded this list of measures, it has acted faithfully with the Government of Spain — as it has shown at the Conference of Presidents that there were 10 days ago —. And certainly, the measures taken by the Union are not enough because all administrations must act, the State, the Government of Spain must act and the European Union must also act. Certainly, what we can't do is not do anything until the 30th, because the 30th is the day Mr. Sánchez will speak. I don't think that's what all governments are doing, not even the performances that you're doing here prove it. And, curiously, there is no one -- even the nationalists have criticized the Government of Spain -- and it is seen that the pact is firm and lasting for the whole legislation because it seems they can't even make a minimal criticism to the Government of Spain, when many of the things they ask for are the competence of the Government of Spain. And, well, and all they do is criticize the only government that within its competence is taking action. For you — as the President said — it is always the fault of the Government of Greece, no matter what the Government of Greece has been warning of this situation for months, it does not matter which week after week we call for measures. It doesn't matter if we're the only ones that we're developing actions to minimize the damage. In the end, you're always the same. And it's a pity we're leaving today without knowing if they're supporting what she's doing. If there's any more action that can be done to the Union within its competences, not to nationalize the grid of electricity distribution, for example. And they support what the Government of Spain is asking for because it would benefit Galicia. And the truth is, in the end, you were the only ones who did not take any action, nothing but criticize the president, when Spain and Galicia are going through a situation of extreme gravity. And I want to conclude by thanking Mrs. Pontón, sincerely thank you. Because I believe that in today's debate one can see a clear contrast between a model of Government, which is the Government of Mr Sánchez, who is inhibiting his responsibilities, which he does not appear, which does not explain until the 30th day, that he refuses to take action or that he does not explain for weeks what measures must be taken. And the model of the Government chaired by Mr Feijóo, who is face-to-face, who is taking urgent and immediate measures of application, which puts the Government at the service of the people, the economic sectors, of the families concerned. Mrs. Pontón on one occasion — repeating a speech we had heard from the other spokesperson on the block — brought Oscar Wilde and Dorian Grey's portrait to the House. And as Oscar Wilde likes me, I want to finish with an Oscar Wilde quote: "Be careful what you want because it can become a reality." He wanted to see the president, he came true, and I thank him for asking. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u89	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the show. President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Candia was passing me on a statement by the Lactalis deputy councillor who literally says: "At all times the dialogue is called upon by the parties to try to unlock this context of collapse..."—and she recognizes—...the sensitivity of the Union is total. They're in contact with us 24 hours. Thanks to its support we have been able to contact strikers who have allowed us a health corridor to introduce some material into the factories to give us this 24-hour margin." I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, this will congratulate you. [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, it doesn't matter, if you don't come here talking about Galician problems, you can overcome exclusively disqualifying those who attend a meeting requested by the opposition. [[Applause]] And also disqualify her with rough words and with a rather inappropriate demagogy, and see that I'm used to insults... If you take the Journal of Sessions, you can make a list of insults, which I will not pronounce here with respect to the House. [[Murmurs.]] But come here to teach the House's dignity and respect, with all due respect to the two spokesmen, I think I'll look at other examples, because this is not. [[Murmurs.]] I'm a machist for using the term anxiety. Do you want to tell me that anxiety can only have women? Is that really so? [[Murmurs.]] Look, this kind of constant demagogy and continues to discuss our commitment to machismo, arguing that we are one of the few autonomous communities that we activate and modify the law to believe vicarous violence, is a sad way to use macho violence for and against. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, over there, follow you through that old man. [[Applause]] I will not depart from the consensus we have signed in this House, nor will I depart from the laws we have approved, nor the equality plans, where you are worth everything and everything and everything. Like saying we don't pay the electric bond. That's right, first he says the money of the year 2021 was remitted at the Christmas of the year 2021, and now he tells us why he didn't pay what he sent us at the Christmas of the year 2021. It's an extreme demagogy. Instead of taking responsibility for the final days of the exercise that must be paid during the exercise, it turns out that the blame is on the one who receives it out of time. We've been paying since 2014, that doesn't say so. We have paid the Greeks since 2014 with electric bonds and electric tickets above the state average. That must be omitted. Why won't it be omitted if it's best for the government? But we are not interested in benefiting the Government, we are interested in benefiting the Greeks, because this is discounted. We're not here in an electoral period or we're going... [[Laughter]] I don't know if it's funny to you or not, but for now there's still a lot of legislation left and you have a lot of time left in the opposition. I can assure you, Your Honor, that you shouldn't laugh at all of this, but it seems that yes, it seems that if you're going to speak to the President of the Board, we're going to make an amendment to the whole of what you said outside Galicia, regardless of what you do in Galicia. [[Applause]] But what else can you give, isn't it, Mr. Alvarez? What's more if we're talking about the Greeks here and you're talking about issues that the Greeks, in fact, have little interest in knowing some of the considerations that you make. He says the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia wants to speak to the president. Every time he wants, every time he wants we talk. Even many times I've called him to speak confidentially. Since he's a secretary general of the Socialist Party, not because... well, he's got another status and maybe he doesn't want to talk. But if you want to talk to me, of course. No, I mean, Your Honor, you should be a little more prudent and talk to him about whether or not we exchange information. Because, if not, he comes to the House and says something that I see in the obligation to lie about facts. Which I won't do. So you should be a little... well, I'm not going to teach you courtesy lessons, but, man, allow me not to accept them either. To say here I don't receive the Secretary General of the Socialist Party I don't think I deserve it, because every time you have a problem I'm at your disposal, the Government and I have no need for receipts and no need for protocols. Just with a call, with an SMS. That's why I don't think I deserve that treatment from you, I'm probably not informed, but you should be informed before you launch an indictment of this nature. [[Applause]] Now it turns out that BNG's economic policies, which I've been looking at, are, more or less, the confirmation of the BNG's political approach to certain sectors and the intervention of the economy, and we also realize inflation. Yes, we're inflationed, but you'll see, in this session, the BNG never spoke about the Central Government. No, this is all a problem with inflation, this inflation is a problem with the Government of Galicia. How badly they treat Galicia the nationalists. There are nationalists who say that there are certain problems that must be solved in the field of the General Courts, in the field of the basic legislation of the State, in the field of central government tax and tax policy. And there are other nationalists who have all the blame on them that we manage the country without those tools. It's a very surprising nationalism, it's a much more ideological nationalism than in the country's interest if you do what they tell you, now well, if you defend Galicia differently from what they tell you, then you're not a good German. It's less bad that the Greeks know how to distinguish between defending Galicia and using Galicia so that it prevails a closed and captive ideology like that of Greek nationalism. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's not up to me to come here and listen to public debt lessons. When the socialists and the Galician nationalists ruled, it was the fourth autonomous community with the most public debt in Spain. We are now the third autonomous community with less public debt in Spain. And we are the second autonomous community with less debt per inhabitant of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] And nationalists come here to teach public debt lessons. When we were at the peak of tax collection, it turns out that they were still issuing debt and they also left a bet of 2,000 million euros unpaid. And now to pay that it turns out that the problem is the People's Party? And now it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that when socialists here constantly and continuously, and in Vigo the bipartite consistently and continuously, they talked about making a new hospital, they weren't able to make a new hospital, not even project it, not even to have a constructive project, not even to give a square meter of soil to do it. And we, who assume the payment made to make one of the best public hospitals in Spain, even above, come to teach you lessons in defense of public health, Mr. Álvarez. A little respect for the public hospitals we are doing in Galicia, starting with Vigo in the middle of economic crisis and in the middle of financial crisis. [[Applause]] They haven't given us the ground to do the hospital yet, they haven't paid a single meter of hit or light or water to do the hospital yet; they haven't apologized for telling all Vigo citizens that that hospital was private. [[Murmurs.]] And they're still saying it now. You'll understand that I'm not going to lose my will of course for trying to defend Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You keep insulting the country, you keep saying that this hospital is private because they don't insult the government, they insult all the public health users of Vigo. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this straight. There are many ways to express yourself, Mr. Álvarez, sometimes fortunately and sometimes less fortunately. But to say that this Government is an isolated Government, which is castrated and which is behind the citizenship, I think it's legitimate. But, of course, you will understand that at this point — I repeat — they criticize because they said — this House is also a witness of this — that I was often criticized because I was going to go to Madrid. I've been criticised constantly and continuously since I've been here since 2003. Mrs Pontón was already a Member, eh! Not Mr. Álvarez. I said it to contextualize it, since 2003. Well, then I was constantly criticized and continued in 2013 until 2018. In 2018 there was a congress in my party and I decided to stay in Galicia. And it turns out they criticized me because really what happened was that my party didn't want me to be your president. They criticized me because I stayed. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that I introduce myself to a congress of a democratic party and they criticize me as well. I certainly don't know exactly what I can do to avoid being criticized. [[Murmurs.]] If you have a manual on what to do, I would certainly read it with great interest. I suppose you wouldn't be legitimized to write it. I'm used to being at all. Will there be any government that works for their people and their land? Yes. And will there be an opposition that we do what we do will criticize your president? You too. They've been so long, so long that you'll understand that sometimes from that scene I'm trying to attend... is there any concrete proposals that we can copy? Is there any measure that we can really build? There's really a moment like where we're living that at least they accept that we sit with the carriers, that we try to unlock this issue, that we give up 50% of the VAT, we give up 50% of the VAT. But they really aren't worth anything. They're not worth another 100-euro bond for every family in addition to the bond we've already assumed by the Central Government. They're not worth it, ladies and gentlemen, the tourist bonus to activate. If they're not worth anything, if they didn't even use the results of the pandemic. You will understand that we are already a little bit, not surprised, but rather a little tired of hearing constantly and continuing that everything we do in Galicia is wrong and, above all, of hearing that all the Greeks are confused when they vote. They will sometimes understand that people in general are not confused, and that the outcome of the polls is a sacred result, even if there are Members, who are no longer in the House, who considered that the Greeks voted for the People's Party because they were uncultuated Greeks. But last week we approved the measures to help the groups most affected by Ukraine, before the Government of Spain; we approved the Quality Law; we promoted a lot of investments in the city of Mr Álvarez in Lugo; and we made the decision and announced in the Official Journal of Galicia the free registration for the first time in all Spain of public, private or concerted childhood schools. It's not a bad balance for a week. In previous weeks we approved the Strategic Plan; you'll understand that this is not approved in fifteen days, we've been working on it for a year. We approved the Law on Improvement of Management of the Comprehensive Water Cycle; we approved the draft Law on Equality, which we presented for public information; and we defended Galicia's interests at the Palma Conference. Do you really think this is a week that's not making decisions? Yesterday we presented the new public hospital in Coruña: 430 million euros in works. So the board continues to work, the councillors too, and their president is very much interested in what concerns my responsibility as President of Galicia. It can't be any other way. Now, in the exercise of politics and public service, I think there are some essential questions that we should answer among all of us. At least I'm trying. The first: Is the work we do useful to citizenship? The second: Does our work contribute to a policy that improves the democratic institutions of the country, improves the unity of the people or, on the contrary, discourages institutions, divides and fragments the people? And the third: If at the most difficult times we make the right decisions, we offer proper explanations and make sure, isn't it really the commitment that any Member of the House has? I assure you that every step I've tried to take in my political activity, every decision I've made and every challenge we've faced, I've always done it trying to answer those questions. Probably inappropriately sometimes, incomplete in others and mistaken in some of them. Now, I think you should ask yourself these questions, because the first one that posed them or the one that posed them is me. And if I get a tip, those three questions are often asked. When they make decisions, you rule in many places in Galicia, eh! You're bipartisans everywhere where the PP doesn't have an absolute majority, imagine if they rule. When they decide that and whoever they support, gentlemen of the BNG, or when they have to defend certain things in the forum whatever it is, they wonder if these questions are really answered. Are the proposals useful? Are there any specific proposals that can benefit citizens? And really, what proposals can I make additional to what the Government—if I'm in opposition—can I implement. I don't think it's up to me to judge if these questions are answered properly. Why? Well, because I've received so much support from most of the Greeks that I'll never pay enough, but I can assure you that I believe these questions the Greeks have already answered them every time they have occasion. And with the same confidence that they have given us in this time I guarantee the Greeks and the Greeks that we will continue to do so, answering the questions, making useful policies and being absolutely criticized even when we do what is asked of us by the opposition. We're going to keep a government focused because we've always had it, and we're gonna keep ensuring it. We will continue to ensure a team with experience. There are advisors and advisors here who have more experience than several ministers together. Therefore, that experience is guaranteed. And there are a number of people who must know that, as we have done for the past 13 years, most of the Greeks will not have any commitments that are not continuing to defend that majority, because it is our commitment, our solemn commitment and a commitment referred to in the polls. And that's why, as long as we have the support of the polls, we're going to continue to face the Greeks, we're going to continue to appear when we consider that some proposal to appear in the opposition is reasonable, especially what happened in the last week. And also, Mr. Álvarez, accepting criticism that doesn't seem fair to me. About Mrs. Pontón's criticisms I'm not going to pronounce because we've been listening to her for a long time. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u91	Thank you, President. Now we have a little problem, because we've suspended the session, but we're back at four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u92	Good afternoon. Let's start the session with point 4 of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of integral care for women's health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u93	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u94	Thank you, President. I think you left little time for lunch. In the past, the BNG questioned the health adviser about the health care situation for women in Galicia, about the existing gender issues and the consequences they have on the quality of health care that we receive from women. And we do it because we women are fed up that they want us to swallow with mill stones, we're tired of waiting for our needs never to be put in the first term. And we need a health with a gender perspective to end all the preconceptions that have been building up throughout history, and to end with the inequality and inequality with which we are treated women in all fields, but in particular on the subject of health. Of course, the Health Counsellor, as always, "foods bring", spoke of almost anything, spoke of an equality plan relating to the professional field, to health professionals, but that is not the object that the Galician Nationalist Bloc questioned, but about the health care we received by women — including health workers, but not on that issue. And, basically, we have betrayed the interpellation here coincidentally with March 8 because of what we don't talk about, and what we don't exist, it doesn't take action. And in the BNG of course we're not going to rest or lower our arms in front of the situation of the neglect we receive in the field of health, because today is, well, a secret to voice; that is, the gender issues exist, are recognized, more and more studies determine their existence, which quantify them. And we said in the previous plenary that, before that, doing nothing is an option and so today we bring here a motion with some issues that we consider most relevant, some by the level of affect, by the number of women affected, and others by the present, as are matters derived from the coward-19 or what we have already denounced in this Parliament about the case of abuse of power and sexual by a professional, a doctor at the standard health center. About 50 years ago, in the 1960s, the feminist movement began to put on the table the existence of gender issues in health care for women. And it's true that in 50 years something has advanced, it's been advanced on some issues, it's been advanced in research on some subjects, but in most matters nothing has been practically advanced. The majority model in the research is still the androcentric model, the man is still the man that is taken as reference; the behavior of the male body remains what is referred to in the diagnosis, therapeutic approach and research. And I insist that, despite the evidence and confirmation of shortcomings in the health approach of women in the announced deficits, at least in the dimension of the problem. And that evidence, of course, from the point of view of the Galego Nationalist Block, needs this change of perspective, this approach in the actions that the health system has to develop to ensure the right that women have to a quality, efficient and fair health. An approach that contemplates the multiple factors that determine our health and incorporate that gender perspective. Why that approach? We could be here setting examples that would take us hours. Women receive five times more antidepressants than men, twice more anxiolytics. Women have about 50% more chances of getting an incorrect diagnosis in the face of a heart attack than a man. And there are studies that determine that there is an infradiagnosis on women's diseases, and there are about 600 cases quantified of infradiagnosis on the basis of gender. I mean, the reasons we consider more than enough to take this matter seriously. And that is why — I insist — we present this motion that insists on some aspects: the first is to demand the application of the gender perspective in research, clinical trials and health-related training. He said the councilman at the previous plenary session that there are already women in Galicia in front of the investigation, which is true. And that in Galicia there is a law that sets the perspective of gender in research, actually, a law driven by BNG that is important but that now has to go from role to reality, it has to become effective. And it is clear that the gender gap in health begins with research; if it is not investigated and if this research is defective, it has as a result that in faculties it does not address the gender perspective in training, in teaching that is taught. And then that lack of gender approach that starts in non-research, which then consolidates in teaching, goes to clinical practice; that is, it's a fish that eats tail. So, obvious women have as a result that treatments are created that are not suitable for us and it is fundamental this approach in research, training, so that women are no longer invisible to health. And — I insist — training and research to take account of our specificities and not tell us that we have to live with pain, that we be heard, that professionals have information and training, and that we have training and information for women and that when we ask for help, if we are given and we are not treated with the basis of sedatives. And are there any questions you've moved on? — as I said before — yes, one of the most advanced aspects is in the study of cardiac pathologies. It's also true that it's the cause of increased mortality among women. It's advanced, but it means, even though it's advanced, it hasn't even reached 40%, where the perspective of gender is included in cardiac research; that is, it's 60% left to be addressed. We're talking about something more advanced. And we believe that it is essential to ensure research into specific attention to the pathologies that affect women, that are more prevalent in women or that they are exclusively women, such as endometriosis or fibromyalgia, or endocrine pathologies. He also said that on the subject of endometriosis we've done, I don't know how many things we've done, we haven't done a quarter of what the collective of women affected by endometriosis has demanded. No leads have been created, specific units, and still have no such specialities. And, of course, progressing a little is good, but we don't comply with those tough advances in matters such as the endometriosis that affects 60,000 women in Galicia—60,000 women!— It's not good for us to walk a little, we want it to run because there are many women who suffer from this pathology; and the speed at which the Popular Party's advisorship goes is not enough or far away. Just like the subject of fibromyalxia, which basically affects women, and systematically continues to deal with opioids, calming down, with issues that don't go to the bottom of the problem or evaluate the source of the pain that women have fibromyalxia. Therefore, the guarantee of research in pathologies that affect women mostly must be a priority. By going to what is affective-sexual and reproductive care, from then on the deficiencies are also very important. It is necessary to increase matron squares in primary and specialized care, and to guarantee equity and that throughout Galicia there are matron-women rates, be at least as the OECD average. That Galicia, as much as I say the People's Party and the Counsellor, is far from having proper rates for us to receive the benefit we need. That is to say, the approach to health policies aimed at the prevention and promotion of women's health in order to avoid hypermedication, a care that must be provided by the right professionals, among whom the midwives must play a fundamental role as recognized, qualified professionals in women's health care. Not only at the stage of maternity, but also throughout sexual life, from childhood to the sensibility of women; in a care that systematically does not leave girls and women out of childbearing age, or broad areas of Galician territory. And we also believe that we need to create a significant number of pelvic floor units that also allow that access and equity. More than 50 percent of women of all ages have at some point some kind of pelvic soil problem of different severity, but in all cases they have an impact on our quality of life. And in spite of that, the vast majority aren't treated, why?; no, because it systematically diminishes this problem and has as a consequence that these dysfunctions unfortunately many women think are normal — just like other problems affecting women — that it is shameful to talk about them; and therefore they do not speak to the health system to be treated. Just as we consider it essential to incorporate primary care services into the clinical psychology category. We keep insisting, women don't have to be treated with drugs in the face of mental health problems, and for that there is a need for professionals in primary care — in general, in health care but in primary care — to be able to care for us. Because 85% of psychopharmaceuticals admit women because they don't have a proper diagnosis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u96	Finished, President. And the last thing we demand is that a report be submitted with all the actions carried out with regard to this abuse of power and sexual abuse committed by the doctor of Standard for women. And that a protocol should be drawn up to allow immediate action in the face of similar unacceptable situations such as the one that happened in Pattern. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Torado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u98	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Bad country if we don't respect food time now. Where are we going? [[Laughter]] This is a disaster! Finally, from our group we want to say that we are going to support the BNG initiative, as we have actually supported it on other occasions that it has proposed similar initiatives, and in some respects the same. And certainly, as we have also presented ourselves on other occasions initiatives in the same line. Why? Basically because there's an obvious reality, and it's that health is absolutely androcentric, it's designed by and for men. It doesn't mean that there are no changes, some improvements in recent times, but never enough. Let me give some data, some were given by Mrs. Prado, but for stopping on other matters. Although no one is able to explain surely no gender difference in this, the expectations, the delays, the delays in caring for a woman in the public health system in Galicia are 13% greater than in men. There's no explanation for why, but it's not 1%, it's not 2%... 13%; repeated this data every certain time a similar evaluation is made. The consumption of psychopharmaceuticals is higher, it is true that some scientific points indicate that the reality is that the prevalence of mental health diseases is higher in women; but the ratio of psychopharmaceuticals is also higher. More psychopharmaceuticals are prescribed for women, even in those types of diagnoses that are not specific to mental health or are, say, peripherals. There's 5 times more research, 5 times more research on erectile dysfunction problems than premenstrual syndrome, 5 times more. It's not a question that there's a little more, 2 times; 5 times more. Why? Because there is much more interest — each one can understand why and where and to which interests obey — in investigating a type of problem than others, when prevalence of premenstrual syndrome is much greater in women than erectile dysfunction in men, but five times more than is studied. I recently read an interview with a well-known traumatologist who talked about the problems in surgery, not his area of traumatology, and spoke of some cases that I was surprised that I obviously didn't fall because I'm a man and therefore I'm not so conscious of some problems, and that I was saying that the apparatus, which needs to be thin, detailed millimetric and with an extreme level of precision, is designed for men. Because the hands are bigger, because the way to behave is different, because the motor reactions are different. And it's very difficult that there's thought-out equipment for women, but it's much more difficult. By the way, more expensive. Which shows that it's a men's, men's, men's health to treat men, when women are actually more than half the population. So we have a problem. It doesn't mean -- we insist -- that nothing has been done in this world. Yes, but there's him who didn't do anything thinking he could do very little! But it's true that we're not going to settle down with very little thinking that we can't do any more. There's a reality, and that's what this situation is all about is accessibility problems. We were talking about the delays that women are waiting for, by the way, 13% more than men. But we also talked about a diagnostic problem, some cases have been cited. There are a lot of diseases with a higher prevalence in women or only in women that take a lot longer than diagnoses. Because research knows less, because clinical work knows less or so, it's true, because if women are found to be certain types of illnesses or somatizations that wouldn't be found in a man. About pain, about suffering, about suffering. Even if you find women who have the greatest capacity to bear pain and therefore you have to treat them later when they hurt more. And so that leads to worse diagnoses. I insist, it's something we've advanced in, but much remains to be advanced, much remains to be advanced. That also results in treatments. We have worse treatment capacity and we diagnose worse, and accessibility is worse. That's why we should be aware that we have a problem, we're less efficient. Is there any tendency to review and reform these scenarios? Some exist. There is an Observatory on Women's Health Care in Public Health, which is located in the General Directorate of Public Health of the Ministry of Health. Is there, can anyone say better? Sure. But it exists. Of course, if we move him here to the comparison in Galicia, I remember perfectly how we discussed the Women's Comprehensive Health Care Plan, which existed. Here we speak in the past. It was created in 2007, it existed. The commander arrived and ordered him to stop. Because who will care for women's health? 2009, was canceled. Did you want to work on this? Never. There's no document, no planned strategy about the need to work more on women's health because there are differences, there are, we're different, we're not better or worse, they're not better or worse, so we need to work on differences. Health care should specifically address the problems you have and do not use models that are also tending to be distorted. So we're in that situation. What do we need to improve? Some of the issues that are being raised here have the whole sense of the world, and of course some of them are very specific, mentioned Mrs Prado some specific case as we know about the case of Pattern, about what we have presented, my companion Noa Diaz has worked specifically on this, and it's obvious what our position is and I think we have to share it all; but in addition to sharing it we have to make decisions, one thing is sharing and another is making decisions. And sometimes we have to go that little step further. But what we need is to work on the two fundamental plans in the health issue. One is the assistant and another is the planner. In the care plan we continue to have clear deficits in regard to what we should think of in terms of women's health. Women who suffer from endometriosis continue to suffer a disembarkation and a certain disregard of the system because it is not evaluated, it is not discussed, it is not worked and it is not understood enough what their situation is, and we need to work more on it. We need to address more problems like fibromyalxia, very present, very feminized, and certainly abandoned not by professionals, but by the system that follows without treating it properly or giving it the entity they deserve. The Law of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy in Galicia is not complied with by the law. And it's not done because there's a will of this government not to do it. They don't like the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy and therefore cause it not to be fulfilled. And that, in addition to being a problem of women's health care, is obviously a problem of indignity that we cannot but denounce clearly. The Law of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy in Galicia is not complied with and this is very serious. By the way, so we can see that political decisions have consequences. Today we know that -- something we knew a few days ago -- but it is really true what the formation of an autonomous government in Spain is going to include Vox. Vox advocates for eliminating the right to voluntary interruption of women's pregnancy. Be careful with those who wake up, because it has consequences. [[Applause]] And that's also what we talk about when we talk about attention to women, too. Be careful because it's everyone's problem. Planning. Why don't we plan correctly? Well, we don't plan properly because culturally we have an inherited historical problem, which we can get better, but which still weighs too much in our situation. By honestly explaining this, we usually appeal to something that is wrong, which is that health is the absence of disease. It's a very classic situation that's made about the absolutely wrong health. There's nothing that determines more than the health of a person than their socio-economic context, clearly. The socio-economic context is detrimental, as we all know, to the extent that economists know and explain perfectly, that it does much more harm, in reality that we live today, women. However, much less is added to that and much less to clinical criteria where the parameters are masculinized. If we look at contexts, we need to understand that women suffer some kind of problem more than men, because they carry more responsibility. Because they assume the problems of managing intra-family conflicts, because they assume the burdens of care, because they assume a situation of defence created over women to a great extent. And we can't wait, the health system can't wait for women themselves to gain their space, they're going to win it, they need the system to adapt and not be a barrier anymore. So we also need to move on. And I think we need to understand among all of us -- and by this I conclude -- that this is not just a debate on a gender issue, it's not just a sex issue, it's not just a biological issue. It's a fully cultural issue, because it's not possible for a health system based on scientific evidence, scientific evidence that has clinically overcome the differences between men and women, it can't be that we continue from politics using ankylosed, past tools that continue to fuel a problem that science no longer has and has already solved. We do it because we don't want it, because we don't know or probably because if you're willing to keep it, because nobody cares. And we believe that it has to be important and that is why we will support all initiatives like this, we will defend our own and we will also push, as far as we can, all those movements that advocate that it is necessary to understand that this transformation will go on or on, but that it is necessary; if not, it would not be understandable, that it should be done by the hands of those who work in the course of politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u99	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u100	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Prado, you're missing the truth. Without renouncing what further progress has to be made, the commitment of the Government of the People's Party to women is clear and also contradictory, also in the field of health. And, as this shows, we have an Equal Health Service Plan for the period 2021-2024. A document that, as we heard from you 15 days ago in the intervention that the Health Adviser had in this same gallery, when asked about women's health here, is a differential fact of Welsh health, which marks the commitment of the Board to achieve real health equality, both as far as professionals are concerned, as well as professionals working in the Galician Health Service, as of course also in the care system. In addition, it is important to highlight, adopted and elaborated with the support and collaboration of the trade union organisations present at the sectoral table. We're talking about the Galega Inter-union Confederation of Labour Commissions, the Independent Trade Union of Officials, the Nursing Union and UXT. The development of this plan began in 2019 with the establishment of the Equality Commission and was approved last June of 2021. Another thing I wanted to tell you, Mr. Torrado, was that I thought you were talking about the last century, because to think at this point that health is made for men, I think it also lacks a reality. The Sergas Equality Plan collects 59 measures grouped around 6 axes: access to public employment and the provision of squares, conditions of work and professional promotion, training, information and awareness; working time, co-responsibility and measures to reconcile personal, family and labour life; attention to special situations of protection, such as gender violence, sexual harassment, harassment or discrimination on the basis of sex or orientation or social identity, and also cross-cutting measures to integrate the principle of equality into the organization. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about an ambitious plan that you want to include the gender perspective throughout the healthcare system, that's what you're working on. A health system that is also part of most women, because 80% of the employees in the Greek service that work are women. Having said this, I think it's important to underline, already entering the points that pick up the BNG motion, I want to move forward that we are obviously in favour of most of the points that you bring here. So, if we are allowed to do so, we are going to ask you for a separate vote and we are willing to vote in favour of many of these issues. It is clear that we are in favour of many of the points they pose because many of them are measures that have already advanced the health advisor himself in the past, and of those that have taken good note when he clearly explained what the advice is being done, and what he also intends to implement because we are aware that we should continue to work on this issue. And anyone can corroborate, because there it is, I'm not fooling anyone, it's in the Journal of Sessions. And on the other hand, there are other issues that we don't understand very well why it incorporates them into this motion. And soon I'll start my argument. This vote on points we hope that it will accept us — because we are all here to reach agreements, to take forward initiatives — in the area of women's health and more health we think it is important not to argue and reach how many more agreements better, not to seek short-term or to be partisans, they would not understand it by the Greeks and the Greeks, and less when there is consensus and we could unanimously approve 5 of the 8 points that you make in your motion. And I'm going to try to break down point by point to make clear the meaning of the vote and why we vote on those who are and others who are not. At the first point we are totally in favour. This Parliament is also a pioneer in the adoption of a law enriched with the arrivals of all political groups, which guarantees equality between men and women in the scientific field. And Galicia, once again, goes one step forward in the policy field and also in practical, because it must be remembered that in 2 of the 3 health research institutes in Galicia, the scientific direction is now in the hands of a woman. And at the national level of the 33 institutes, only 7 are in the hands of a woman. And if we talk about the biomedical research foundations in Galicia, they're also run by women. In the period 2017-2021, 199 clinical trials were authorised, 29 of them were directed exclusively to men and 54 exclusively to women. And it is important to note that women's exclusive gender prevails, many related to treatments or techniques associated with pathologies of exclusive or higher female prevalence. We're talking about breast cancer, cervix cancer, cervical cancer, but also urinary incontinence or osteoporosis were part of these research studies. Of course we fully agree to continue progressing in studies and tests specific to the woman, and I don't know which of the voices said it's important to stop talking about this so that this becomes normal, obviously, but what you can't say is that there's no way to go, because there is. Is there a missing way to go? Okay, but there's already a lot of travel and I think in the community we're on the right track. At the second point we're also in favour. The data we have in Galicia in the management of the pandemic leave no doubt in any of the eids and with enviable transparency both in the relative vaccination, stays in hospitals, plants like ICU, or also in home care and we were always located in the first places as to the resolution, efficiency and effectiveness. Moreover, we also have the mental health plan of Galicia postcovid, for the period 20-24 and are operating postcovid units in all hospitals; therefore, in favour of this study. At the third point, because we no longer agree, Mrs Prado, the situation in Galicia does not stand up for the positive comparison with other communities in our country, although you do not like it to give this data, because you dismantle your speech, but the truth is that Galicia, according to the latest official data published in the year 2020 on the Ministry of Health website, is the fourth autonomous community with the best data of primary care masters, and if we add those 20 steps incorporated since 2020, we would pass from 0.61 to 0.72 per 10,000 inhabitants, improving the position. We're increasing the number of midwives in 20. These are data, Mrs. Prado, data in the face of demagogy that is often seen from this rostrum. At the fourth point, we also fully agree. We know that there are more common pathologies in the female population; others that are the same, because they or they directly affect us differently; and pathologies that are exclusively women's. And in that sense, we have to keep moving forward and we think that we must also continue to encourage more female studies. Having said this, we can't forget programs like breast cancer, cervix neck cancer, and also remember that in the Mental Health Plan there is a specific approach to this pathology in women, which we know affects more and is different. Also in cardiovascular pathologies, in which one already counts in a hospital with specific consultations; or in pulmonary pathologies, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, with an importance of prevalence also in the female gender, but with clinical factors that are totally different from those of men. As far as endometriosis is concerned, it must obviously be improved, but in six of the seven health areas there is a specific consultation of endometriosis in which full attention is paid to those women with suspicion or already diagnosed with endometriosis. And, Mr. Torrado, you've spoken, it seems to me that there was expensive equipment, I don't know... well, in medicine what's clear is that there can be expensive appliances, but they're always an investment and in this field I mean that the incorporation of new technology, like the surgical robots Da Vinci in all the health areas, enables surgeons much more precise and much less invasive than in this field, for example, in endometriosis, to ensure better recovery for these patients. We agree and it is necessary and essential to continue to work on introducing the gender perspective into all the pathologies that affect women, and that's why we should continue to raise awareness among professionals in order to improve early diagnosis to prevent the development of a much more insidious disease. At point five we are also in favour, and I would like to welcome you, Mrs Prado, and I sincerely say that we are pleased that the BNG incorporates among its requests one of the announcements made by the counsellor in the previous plenary concerning the formation of multidisciplinary units of pelvic soil pathologies, in all sanitary areas, and the approval of the new portfolio of matron services that within the framework of the primary care plan will boost precisely the approach of the pelvian soil, precisely from the consultations of the matrons. I suppose it's a way of recognizing that they support this joint initiative. The sixth point we can't vote for it. There are clinical psychologists in health centers, you know that and I remind you that in the mental health plan you specifically talk about the approach of women's mental pathology. Point 7, we can't vote for it either. The counsellor told them in the question that was raised in this very Chamber, at an initiative precisely his own, whose content and scope is in the Journal of Sessions. He told you what you could say, it was clear in your answer, but there's data you should know that they're confidential; those that are public and that you can give them already know them, you can't argue about this. We totally reject any kind of behavior in this sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u102	...but every thing in its place. In point 8 you bring, we're going to vote in favour, because we think it's important that the Health Council, which already has an equality plan between women and men for the period 2021-2024, it's also important to know that the first steps have been taken in this direction. I want to point out that in Sergas there are specific protocols of gender violence, for years now two courses have been scheduled each year, one on the detection of gender violence and [...] act in the field of health care, for health personnel and one on the staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u104	...on equality in gender-based violence. I conclude with the conviction that, if we all work hand-on-hand without partyism, we will continue to move forward in order to achieve effective equality between men and women, both in the field of health, which is what we are talking about today, now, as in all the issues of life. And with that in mind, we will also count on a new instrument, the new Law of effective equality between women and men in Galicia, which we will debate in this House and which the good assurance that it will also be of much help to another key instrument of the so-called gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u105	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u106	Thank you, President. It is clear that gender is a socio-cultural and political construction, and determines the relations of society with each of these constructed genres, the power relationships with those genres, and it is clear that the relationship of established power is a patriarchal relationship that causes the female gender to suffer the consequences of that patriarchate, which makes decisions primarily thinking for itself, and the consequences have them at the general level, and in case we deal with them at the health level, they want to hide it or not. And we have it in mental illnesses, pulmonary disease, cardiovascular disease, fibromyalxia, endometriosis and covid-19. We're not talking about prehistory. We're not talking about issues that could happen. I don't know how many years ago. We're talking in real time about the existence of these genres. And I have to insist that not accepting that reality means that they will not act on it. And I, with all due respect, Madam, don't know if there's any course of reader understanding, because what BNG puts on the initiative and why you're going to explain and the reasons why you vote in favour have nothing to do with what we put on the initiative, absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] Because, of course, we are indeed demanding the prospect of gender in research. They voted in favour, but as soon as there are women it is a condition sine qua no, essential, but not enough, but not enough. It's a very important step women are in front of the investigation, but we're not only demanding that there be women, but that women's problems have the role that they play. And it seems that that part doesn't just understand it, just like we're talking about training, which you've made obvious. What are they going to do in colleges to study the body of man and woman, not a neutral body, because we don't have neutral bodies. What are they going to do in colleges if we study that we have different bodies, different pathologies, different immune systems, different response... that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about. For the same reason that we asked for a study on the consequences of women's health, both for vaccination and for side effects, and not for Mrs. Amigo, there are no postcovid units in Galicia working, there are no. [[Applause]] There's, no, there's the announcement and there's some professional in a hospital that, if someone calls, they don't follow up on the people who have postcovid sequels, they're not doing it, and if they're doing it, bring me the data here to the next full, bring me the data from where, when and what people, and especially what women are doing the tracking. How many women in Galicia have manifested adverse reactions to the hideous vaccination, and what follow-up are they doing the same. Don't try -- I told you before -- let's communicate with mill stones, because it's not true. It's not true that he's doing what we demand here. So don't tell me you're going to vote because they're already doing it, because it's not true. With which, of course, we're going to do that facial wash, and that's why we're asking this question because there's been a lot of women who have expressed that question, because there's more than enough studies to say that the gender variant has not been introduced into research and that this follow-up of the post-covid consequences is not being done, despite the fact that many women have manifested and reported these adverse effects. Just like there's not enough matrons in Galicia, no. We're at very low levels, and if you want me to tell you a study by the Matronas Association that says that in the 2021-2025 period in Galicia they're going to be at the age of 85 masters, a number I already demand that not even 200. What is the plan to re-approach these matrons, and that does not happen like Mrs. Carreira, who has been trying to consult with the mistress for 15 days and is not able to do so, or that Mrs. Maria Albert will already make the first communion of her son and has not yet managed to have a puerpery consultation, which she has not yet achieved. Let's see! we're talking about practical cases, names and names here present. And they'll forgive me for exemplifying it in them, but we're talking about realities that women suffer every day, is that you're inventing a virtual reality that has nothing to do with what women suffer. Like, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, these are the demands of the Desired Association, which brought the debate here to this Parliament and that the People's Party once voted that rather than about what to do to meet their demands, and you say that there are six units, there's nothing left, there's nothing left for... and so we could talk about fibromyalgia. And the theme of the pelvic floor: look at one thing, Mrs. Friend, the BNG brought here a year ago the creation of pelvic floor units when we brought the request for a women's and health unit to be created at the Health Council to promote all women's health actions, and what did the People's Party do? To vote against. And now tell me that the councillor announced it in the previous plenary, he announced it. I mean, that goes the BNG behind not, goes the People's Party behind, only with ads. We've been asking for it for a year. I think you should check out, or know what you vote when you vote, because there are the logbooks to see BNG's initiatives, and it wasn't the first time we asked for it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u108	...it was not the first time that we demanded it, as we demanded, the counsellor did not report what was done with the barbarity of the doctor at the standard health center, which I have to report here that he continues to be active in Sergas, that no action was done when in other cases, and we can put here the example of the xinecologist of Verín, if he had too much speed in acting, and in this case with more evidence than enough of abuse of power and sexual abuse has not yet been done "because the case is on the judicial track." [[Applause]] No, he didn't give an explanation or take any action.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u110	So if they really want to act in favour of women's health with very specific issues like those we bring here today, they vote in favour and don't come with excuses that they're doing it because actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u112	...they're doing very little...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u114	... given the enormous problem that exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u115	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the Greek Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility 2018-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u116	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Rio, at the heart of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents before that Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Replacement amendment:The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1o.- Present to the Parliament of Galicia, before the end of the year, the evaluation of the I-Gallego Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility 2018-2021, together with the Plan of Actions for Equality in the Educational Centres of Galicia2o.- Present in the Parliament of Galicia, before the end of the year, the II Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility, which, with the responsibility of the priority challenge between concrete and budgeted actions to be developed in health care, education, social, etc.3o.]] To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us. I wanted to begin this intervention by transferring all our support to the family and friends of Jéssica Méndez, this Barro woman who was hit this week by a suspected stalker, in a crime in which all the clues point to a feminicide; if we confirmed, again we would be faced with the most extreme violence we suffered by women only because of it. Go to her with all our heart. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the truth, without escaping from this violence, is already ahead of the popular bench that I'm going to repeat in my own words in various committees last week; the issue was at present. And since we are going to debate this motion that deals with co-responsibility — that is, it is about equality — I do not want to waste the opportunity either, and I do not want to join the comrades and colleagues who have mentioned this question of strongly condemning Mr Feijóo's lamentable statements by denying the violence of the masculine group. Because masculine violence, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely the most cruel manifestation of that inequality, the inequality we are going to talk about today. [[Applause]] Frankly, we've already said it, in the PSdG we're very concerned about the drift of this new People's Party; and very concerned, much so that Mr Feijó's work after trying to rectify — today too — statements that have been made — I feel very much, but it has been so — with the greatest of the continuances and with the greatest of the security and conviction, simply by whitening that pact of shame that they signed a few days ago, or a few weeks ago, in Castile and León. We thank — and I must say too — the public statements — the only ones of the People's Party, by the way — even yesterday from the Counsellor of Equality, and that gives us some calmness, but I have to admit that we were expecting greater perturbation on the part of other members of the People's Party, who only play with that of "and you more" in an attempt to justify the unjustifiable. Because Mr Feijóo does not know the laws which are passed in his own country and it is also very recently serious, but more than — as I say — if he joins the theses of the ultra-right, which seeks to deny the violence of the masculine. That's a lot more. But, well, well, let's go to the motion that brings us here today and that, yes, which also talks about machismo, of that invisible machismo that we've been accepting centuries and is distributing roles according to sex, victims of a patriarchate that we must fight, no doubt. And we must fight it — we think it is, of course, also from the institutions; of course, most of those conducts that reproduce in the private sphere, but it is also true that the public authorities must be who, they must be able to enter that private area to change unfair conduct and assume their responsibility in the application of policies that are also positive discrimination in order to prevent such inequalities from taking place. And what inequalities do we talk about? Well, for example, taking a very recent UXT report for this 8 March, with very recent data, making a comparison between 2019 and 2020. And it speaks of an inequality that occurs when the assumption of family care jobs by men increases in paid permits, while unpaid ones are mostly female, for example. Or that inequality once in Galicia, with data from 2021 of people who have a part-time contract for the care of minors or dependents, 94% are women. Or that data too, that report that talks about the reductions in the legal-care agenda that are still being requested to a large extent by women, 76.4% of the total, more than 3 women compared to 1 man. And in view of these figures that account for a terrible inequality, in our motion we propose to move forward in what for us — as we have also said in our interpellation — is the first step in this anxious equality which is the co-responsibility. Because the problem of conciliation really arises as a result of the denial or invisibility of people's obligation to meet their needs in different areas: the personal, social, labour... and the invisibility of a very specific reality, especially, that of time and work that requires the basic needs of people. That's why we insist on that idea of co-responsibility, to focus on it; because, we already said, reconciliation policies are of no use if we don't move ahead and we don't sink into co-responsibility. It is necessary to review the social contract between men and women, as well as the approach since public policies are formulated in order to ensure the participation of all people — women, but also men — in different areas of life. We're looking for the action of our Government in this motion, but what we're looking for is a continuous action, not an isolated action. That is, of course, and I am sorry if we insist too much on this issue, but we really think that is fundamental. And unfortunately one of the Achilles heels of this German Government we believe that besides that action there must always be an assessment. And, we insist, there is no need for any new plans if we do not evaluate the effectiveness of the old; in addition, this point in which he insisted on the reactivation commission the professor at the University of Santiago, Professor Bastida; by the way, proposed as a representative by the People's Group. We do not doubt, at all, the will of the Employment and Equality Adviser for promoting policies that deepen in co-responsibility, as he did in the last plenary session, in the interpellation. But, besides willingly, we need concrete proposals and documents that, based on real data and current data, ensure greater impact and, of course, greater effectiveness. So in our motion, what we propose is to present to Parliament in Galicia before the end of the current session period, before the summer, or this summer, the evaluation of the first Greek plan of conciliation and co-responsibility 2018-2021; and in the third quarter already the second plan of co-responsibility. From our point of view, this second plan should have co-responsibility as a priority axis, but it did not have the first one — although it is true that it deepened a lot in this matter — but we think that they should have that as a priority challenge. And we want you to already collect concrete and budgeted actions to develop in educational centers, because this was also the first plan at the beginning of the 2022-2023 course. I know the advisor is true that he proposes other deadlines, but we also advance him in the last plenary session in our interpellation, we think we need to shorten them — and we're talking about shortening them for a few months — but we consider it urgent to work on this issue and do it as soon as possible. We also propose to conduct a comprehensive study in collaboration with the Greek universities on co-responsibility in Galicia. There are research groups that are working on this issue, there are departments that are working on this matter, and we have to take advantage of all the gray matter that we have in our country to move on. And what is this study about? Well, about the distribution of time, about the distribution of household chores and care between men and women. So too -- and that's important -- as well as having data about the social perception that exists on this issue. Of course, we also believe more than ever before — and that is why we also propose — the design of a awareness-raising and sensitization campaign that focuses on men, that speaks of the absenteeism of the care that men have; and that it begins at the beginning of the year 20-23. And, as I say — and I also feel repetitive — but we think it's time to focus on men, who have the biggest problems to accept or understand this co-responsibility of what we're talking about. And lastly — but not least, very importantly, on the contrary, it appears as point 5 because it is incardinated with the previous points — what we want in our motion is that it is present in the Galician Parliament, before the end of the session period, the evaluation of the first Action Plan for Equality in the educational centres in Galicia, which ended in 2020 and of which we still know absolutely nothing at all. And that with those results of this evaluation of that first plan is presented in the second half, around the summer, a new one for the period 22-27, but already with concrete measures for this year, accompanied by its corresponding budget. And I'm done. I believe that there is no doubt that there is a considerable imbalance between men and women in the division of domestic chores and care is something that no one can deny. We are the women who mainly choose to reduce the number of jobs or temporarily suspend our professional careers because of family burdens. And all of this finally has a great impact on professional development — in our professional development — on the pay gap and, of course, also on pension rights. And so we consider the relevance of this motion and, of course, the urgency of reaching an agreement on this matter. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, today's debate is on the evaluation of the first plan of co-responsibility and conciliation, and on the elaboration of the second one for this year. But, as Mrs Díaz introduces previous questions that we have already talked about in the Commission, but how she wants to bring them to plenary and how she wants me to probably answer them again, then I will answer you, Mrs Díaz. Look, when you talk about the pact of shame in an autonomous community, what do you mean? I'd like to know what part of the covenant shames you, I'd like you to say. Because to say so accusations in the air: the pact of shame! well, as mantra is very good; but it would also be much better that you were rigorous and serious, had gone up to this rostrum and said: look, the point such it says to me seems a shame because you with this are giving up this, to this and to this in defense of gender violence. I'd really like to make it real, Mrs. Díaz, because the truth is to throw that kind of sobs will be very good for you, but the reality is that rigority, seriousness and concretion, none. Because, look, I'm ashamed, for example, with the statements we read this morning all in the media of a provincial commissioner in Pontevedra province saying that women would like us to be raped by a member of the IPU. That lady was stopped and very well stopped. But, look, I too was very ashamed when the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Dolores Delgado, said that on trips to Colombia she saw how her colleagues at the Supreme Court were retaliating with minors and she looked elsewhere. Or when Mr. Villarejo told him he was using brothels to get vaginal information and she told him it was a success of that kind of business. Or when he said Mr. Marlaska was a faggot, or when he said he preferred to work with men rather than women; and that men like her so a little silly, but rather monks... but, well, that these are usually little girls. I mean, this kind of homophobic demonstration told the then Minister of Justice, that, far from being stopped, he was elevated to the position of Attorney General of the State. That's the general prosecutor of the state we have, appointed by the Socialist Party. That's it, Mrs. Díaz, that's a shame. Look, as far as the Socialist Party's commitment to gender-based violence is concerned, let me tell you that everything is left in words, because in fact none. They have been ruling in the State for almost four years; since 2017 there has been unanimous approval of all groups, except for Podemos — which, by the way, is the power in the Ministry of Equality and so it is likely that the State Pact is not being developed. In 2017 we signed all parties, all political organizations except We can make that State Covenant against Gender Violence, and in that covenant there were important legislative changes in the area of gender violence. The first one. The deal law. For when, Mrs. Díaz? For when is a deal law? Because, look, the comprehensive support plan for victims of trafficking ended in 2018. You were not even able to re-edit it; there is no plan; in Galicia we do have it, in the state not, because the Socialist Party, so committed to gender violence, was not able to even re-edit a plan, not even to carry out a single of the nine measures set out in the Plan for the Care of Victims of Trafficking. When do you change the penal code and introduce digital violence as a criminal type? He's not even waiting for them. In Galicia we passed a law to introduce digital violence as gender-based violence. And since you're telling me about vicar violence, I'm telling you, Mrs. Díaz, that violence would also vicarize here in Galicia, we had a case, a terrible case, which was in 2015, and then no state or autonomous legislation included it. And that's why Mr. David Oubel, by calling it somehow, the killer, was convicted by parricide, this is domestic violence. It wasn't even as determined as gender-based violence. But, look, in the year 2021, when we came back to another tragic and dramatic situation as was the case of the Ana and Olivia girls in the Canary Islands, we didn't have a state legislation that considered that vicarious violence. And what did the Socialist Party do, because they've been ruling for three years, Mrs. Díaz. Put it through the back door in the Child Protection and Violence Act when in Galicia we were already processing in this House a Gender Violence Act, it's true that the BNG initiative, but with the support of the People's Party. Therefore, the People's Party's commitment to the protection of victims, to legislate in the field of gender-based violence, is impeccable. And I don't mind you, Mrs. Díaz, saying that we have no commitment to gender-based violence when I just told you what the commitment is not, what the Socialist Party's not commitment in this matter. [[Applause]] You present a motion regarding the evaluation of the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, and we have to say that we are very pleased with that plan, because for the first time a plan of the importance and power of that plan, which was from 2018 to 2021, budgeted with more than 848 million euros, was launched. And that is the most important proof of the commitment of the People's and Government's Party of Galicia to equality: the establishment of a plan with resources, with public policies and with important budget. And in this sense, I believe that this allows women, because they are the great harmed in terms of reconciliation and co-responsibility, to be able to reconcile their professional tasks with their personal life and not have to give up either one or the other, and not feel guilty for going to work or for giving up their professional career. In your initiative, you are asking for the presentation of the evaluation of the first plan. In the past plenary the advisor has committed himself, and he has already said that it is being done and, as you well know, there has been a series of changes... rather than a change, a series of measures, because I don't know if you realize that in March 2020 the world has been stopped a little, and there have been many measures that have had to delay its implementation precisely by the arrival of the pandemic. And that delay is what leads us to have a little delay in evaluation as well. But the advisor undertook to do this evaluation before the end of the year. You ask on your initiative before this session is over. Well, the truth is, I'm surprised that they introduced this motion when the advisor already told him it was impossible not to do it until the end of the year. We tabled an amendment in that sense. I mean, if there's a government commitment to present the plan, the plan assessment, before the end of the year, and we insist that we put it in the amendment before the end of the year. I think not accepting this amendment is as much as asking us to vote against it, because I'm already telling you that the board itself said it wouldn't do the evaluation before the end of the year and so I think it's important to take that into account. The advisor also explained that there is already a completed part of the evaluation, which was done in June 2021, in relation precisely to the ability to apply impact indicators of the covid-19. She pointed out that 7 out of 10 measurements were carried out, that strategic areas were practically executed. Strategy 1 Generating consciousness and knowledge was executed at 88% -- it's talking about June 2021 -- the strategic area 2, which is Educating for a corresponding society, was executed at 92%; the strategic area 3, articulating a new culture of the times, at 61%; at 4, strengthening the commitment of organizations with a corresponding reconciliation, at 69%; and at 5, strengthening support resources, at 57%. As I told you, it's provisional results and the truth is, they don't have bad indicators. There is also — it does not give me time to tell you all the measures that are being put in place in the field of reconciliation and co-responsibility, you know exactly what they are — but I think it is important that measures are being put in place that affect equal work between men and women. And it has already been announced and it has already been taken to the board of directors, the new equality law, which is going to involve precisely regulating telework, regulating quality promotion in female employment. And this is fundamental, Mrs. Díaz. And there I also invite you in the Government of Spain, who have so much to talk about making a telework law, then when we say that in Galicia we are pioneers, you make fun of them. And they say, no, we are pioneers in everything. Well, yes, that's the reality, that in Galicia we are pioneers in everything. Unfortunately, we cannot legislate in areas where we would like them, because they are of exclusive State competence. Yes, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, of course. No, no, of course we would like you to legislate in these areas, but the Government of Spain, supported by you, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, supported by you and put there for you, for look to the other side. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is the commitment to equality. You who rule together everywhere, in the end, "those who sleep on the same mattress are of the same condition," said my grandmother, who was very wise. So, ladies, I think it's important... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, maybe it's a lack of respect or something because here today, like everything's an indignity. No, well... it's all an indignity. My companion Elena Candia, the mayor of Mondoñedo said she had to take more Prozac, who was very anxious. She has to fit in and here Mrs. Ana Pontón is a little less than I know she's asking for support for the presidency. I believe that feminism and especially women have an obligation to defend it and to defend the violation of women's rights when women's rights are actually violated, because when a woman appeals to feminism and always says that it's macho any accusation that is made to her, not because of being a woman, but because of her political status...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u121	...because I've had many, many, many criticisms and never appealed to my status as a woman to say that they were being machos with me, I hope and hope that all the women we adhere to politics will fit political criticisms as political criticisms, not as macho criticisms. Because it's a weak favor that we do feminism if every time they criticize us as politics we appeal to a masculine critique. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Only doctors can accept or prescribe it. We'd better keep this in mind. [[Murmurs.]] For now the thing is like this. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of motion... sorry, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. You're right. He woke me up about the amendment. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u123	There's no eating or talking here today. I was kidding. [[Laughter]] Good afternoon. Look, I'm gonna take him here at the end. I don't think that what Orlando told Mrs. Candia — that I didn't know until you put it on Twitter — was the mayor of Mondoñedo, it was a political criticism that Mrs. Candia — excuse me for using it now in the debate — that it was something that had to fit. As we do not consider admissible when Mr Lugo's president made him that barbarity of absolutely misogynistic comment. That's why I don't think you can slide here the idea that a spokesman for the first force of the opposition will give you anxiety attacks trying to transfer an idea that we are hysterical women. I think the responsibility we all have, uh!, regardless of, but I would almost dare to say even more when we give these comments to our organizational partners, is not to laugh at them. [[Applause]] Because otherwise what we are is undermining and undermining a space that is very difficult and very hard for all. For everyone, hey, every day. So I think that instead of coming here there, there's all that's said, I think it's good to make doors inside -- the revolution starts at home -- reflection on what we should admit to our fellow organizations and what comments or statements are absolutely out of place. [[Applause]] We, now returning to the subject of the question, will now come back on this subject a little further, but speaking of the text and the resolution of the motion presented today by the Socialist Party, we will vote in favour. We agree with the proposal, it goes online, in addition, with something else we have formulated since the BNG and even reiterates unanimous agreements in this House. Because, of course, you can come to teach everyone around the world and say that a lot of promises and does not meet, that there must be preaching and giving wheat, but the same could apply to the Government of the Union, because without going further the first two points of the Socialist Party's motion were unanimously approved in February 2021 in this same House and the proposal of the majority group to support the Council of Galicia in this House, the People's Party. February 2021 without the Galician Union doing absolutely nothing to comply with that agreement driven by the People's Party itself which demanded the evaluation of the conciliation and co-responsibility plan and the adoption of a new plan. That's over a year. So, imagine, if you take the real bargain and you can consider something accessory unanimous agreements that push your own party in this House, imagine where the 3/4 parts of the agreements that are reached by the groups in this Chamber will be stopped. [[Applause]] And I think that in addition to the amendment that the People's Party has tabled to the Socialist Party's initiative, it's the best example of the fact that the propaganda is about everything, it's about everything, especially when it comes to relevant dates like March 8th, there are those who are anxious to do what they do and then nothing is done. I insist on this case, because it was February 2021 and we were at this date, March 8, International Women's Day a year ago, but it is that on the same year, March 23, 2021, also the proposal of the majority group of the House of the People's Party, was also approved here unanimously by all forces, that we should evaluate the Plan of Women and Science and that we should approve a new plan of women and science, and here we are one year after without plan or evaluation or nothing in haste, and no hurry to draw forward proposals. So, man, I find it amazing, indeed, that there are many unmet promises in the Government of Spain, but here this House itself was not too reminded that there are unanimous agreements, two in particular, concerning women's rights in the scientific field and in the field in this case of conciliation and co-responsibility, and they are also failing to comply. [[Applause]] And now tell us that until the end of 2022 that Chinese dwarf. Well there was a year that had to be done and nothing was done at all. Driven by yourself those agreements. I insist that with co-responsibility and conciliation we already have enough disrespect to bring to this House if we do a little review and we have some more memory than the 15 minutes that should last some fish. Because here there was a plan of co-responsibility prior to the People's Party's Meeting of Galicia, which is the good thing with the new technologies, which is all hung on web pages, is the good thing to have digital memory when you don't want to have the other one. And this first co-responsibility promotion plan has been put into a drawer since 2007 that was approved with effect until 2011, and since 2009 that entered the People's Party through the Gate of Galicia until 2018 that decided to push another one. And since then it wasn't fashionable, they didn't even have to make the slightest effort to try to figure out what consequences it had left without budgeting and without fulfilling an ambitious plan, which had a lot to do with the incorporation of men into care tasks and the promotion of men and social co-responsibility also through public services. [[Applause]] They had this country with no plan of any kind of reconciliation and co-responsibility from 2009 to 2018, almost a decade, eh! Almost a happy decade, voting against other initiatives and proposals that brought our group, the BNG, two bills, one in 2011 and the other in 2014, based on the rights of reconciliation and co-responsibility. What country would we have today? Let's do this exercise, it's rhetorical, you don't have to answer, but let's imagine what reality would be in this country if, instead of ten years of putting a plan in the drawer, you've been making the budgetary effort and political effort to want things to change in this country. And I, looking back at that debate in 2014, recovered from the Journal of Sessions a sentence from my companion Carmen Adán, who was also Secretary General of Equality between 2005 and 2007 in this country, and said in that proposed conciliation and co-responsibility law that pushed the Block, said we had to make it clear — says Carmen Adán — that equality policies are not a luxury. Let us remain, please, with that phrase, that these equality policies are not a luxury, because now there are those who were asked to concretion in the accusations, because there are those from the People's Party of Galicia and the Presidency of the Galician Union trying to make believe that it is a wasteland to invest 20 billion euros in women's rights and in a more just and democratic society, which is a luxury and which is indispensable and that is not helping people. [[Applause]] That's exactly the way it is, though. Try to make a public questioning and a political questioning that women's rights are something accessory and something secondary, something totally indispensable when it's not. And that's having a lot of face and a lot of shame to come here and kick your chest. Before I'm finished, I'd like to or would like the Nationalist Block of Wales to make a wider reflection than in some way it's also been stopping in the debate in previous interventions. A broader debate or reflection on women's rights, and the question being raised from the right and from the Presidency of the United Nations on investment in equality and even on the concepts of violence against men. Words, and that we work with them in some way as raw materials, words are powerful acts, they name, they visualize and build realities. There is a clear but clear, public, notorious and patent offensive aimed at returning male violence to the family and private spheres. It's not random, it's not casual the insistence on replacing public discourse, political discourse, and also legislation, the term maleistic violence for domestic violence; it's ideological, it's political and it's intentional and conscious, that will to replace debate is to hide it, silence it, that term of what you're talking about, which answered that question from the journalist that we all have in mind. And here I want to make a rosy and a warning. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, all of you, but especially the women of the People's Party, do not allow your party to attack at least women's rights or question the progress made. We don't thank them because they come from my own ranks and let's not make it like it's irrelevant. When Lugo's happened, I'm sorry to put it back as an example because it's not in the debate, but when we saw it in the paper, when we saw it published in El Progreso, we didn't take it half a millimeter, because I'm just like the one who attacks me, whether it's Mrs Candia or any member of the People's Party, or whether they're my comrades or those of the Socialist Party, whether they have me. Because I know that, since I don't stand firm and defend the rights of all, I end up making it valid that women's right to participate in public space is being questioned; or that our dress or character is more the subject of political debate than our proposals or our political programs. We can't laugh at thanks and therefore we have to be more demanding, if fit, with the fellows of our organizations than with those of the outside. But besides that, we cannot allow the political debate on equality and women's rights to be brought back to this country more than three decades ago. That was a prayer. Now the warning: Galicia is a feminist country — I repeat — Galicia is a feminist country and the people of Greece are a feminist people, so we have one of Europe's most advanced legislation on gender violence, despite the fact that Spain is a trap for us in this matter as in so many others. We're not going to take a step back, therefore, in the defence of women's rights, not a step back the way of women in the last 30 years, by the feminist movement, particularly by the Greek feminist movement. We're not going to allow the slightest retreat. Women's rights are human rights and rights cost money; 20 billion euros in five years, it's even more. We will not end centuries, centuries of discrimination, contempt and violence of all kinds exercised against women as a mechanism, by the way, of social control and domination, without economic resources, without material resources and without human resources. I repeat, rights cost money and more even if we have to put on. Who questions that public investment in equality plans or who questions the budgetary and political effort in the fight for rights and real equality between women and men, the only thing that seeks to deny us that right and that space to women, and therefore perpetuate the discrimination we endure. And that's not where they're going to have the Block, the Bloc Members in front, and they're going to have a whole country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u125	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, language can also be violence, and with it women's rights are also violated. It's more, Mrs. Prado, I haven't heard yet, and I spoke the BNG voicer exactly the same, and this voicer who speaks to them of equality if he did so at the time, when some member of my party made some masquerading statement, I haven't heard you make a condemnation of those words of Mr. Feijóo. But, in any case, if there was any doubt, in case there was any doubt, I'm going to read them, I'm going to read those exact, literal words: "A while ago we suffered a murder caused by a father who, for a problem with his partner, murdered his two daughters. That's not male violence, that's domestic violence. [[Applause]] And no, Mrs. Prado, I didn't really interrupt you, I ask for the same respect. Mr. Feijóo, neither is domestic violence, nor can we of course banish masque violence with expressions like, "a problem with your partner." A little more serious. [[Applause]] Look, the mother herself of those girls that Mr Feijóo referred to, the mother herself, Rocío Viéitz, denounced yesterday, or on Sunday — I don't know — those words even after that period where the president of the board was trying to rectify. And today, even today, in the Vigo Lighthouse, the coordinator of the autonomic program for psychological care to victims of gender-based violence again made an amendment to Mr. Feijóo, warning that 26% of the psychological care of ill-treatment is for children and children of victims. Let's take this a little seriously, Mrs Prado, take this a little seriously. But, of course, it is true that we were not at all surprised by Mr. Feijóo's statements, because he had already begun his career in Madrid, and that is true, blessing, that yes, the pact of shame, the pact of shame with the extreme right in Castela and León, where violence within the family, which certainly is where the vast majority of cases of masculine violence are occurring, indeed, if you have to produce among members of the same couple or ex-parella you will have to be there. Vox intends to turn that into domestic violence. Don't confuse yourself, Mrs. Prado, the intention of the ultra-right assumed by the new PP, of course, are its government partners, and replace the masculine violence they deny by the domestic. But the thing isn't over either, and I'm going to repeat it with the BNG voicer, too, the thing isn't over there. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó's new PP considered, also in a public statement, that it is not a priority at all to allocate 20 billion euros, listen, to what?: to pay maternity and paternity benefits, to improve aid to women in a vulnerable situation, to fight violence against women, to facilitate universal education for children aged 0-3 years or, for example, to end the gap in pensions. Mr Feijóo spoke about this second strategic plan of equality between women and men that recently announced the ministry that it would be necessary to monitor it so that the funds will not be laid off, so that the funds will not be laid off. I don't know, we'll also have to look at what the Galician Union does with the millions who come to it every year for the State Pact. The mere fact that they associate, as Mr. Feijóo did, the expression superfluous expenses to a strategic plan for equality between men and women is more than worrying, Mrs. Prado, than worrying. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it remains very much to be done, and we are very aware that much remains to be done, but, look, it has been with socialist governments as we have been advancing in the state in the matter of equality, so no lessons, no lessons. About the amendment, and I'm going to finish this, because I understand it's all clear. We, on the amendment of the People's Party, what we propose is a transaction, which already have the other two groups, in which we assume with generosity, we think with generosity, and precisely so do, because we think it would be very appropriate to approve this motion unanimously, because we accept a delay in the times of presentation of that Greek plan of co-responsibility, but in that transaction what we cannot accept and also some improvement is true, some of the measures we have proposed, the People's Party improves that drafting, but what we cannot accept is the aforementioned plan of action for equality in educational centres, and we do not accept because of course, if we accept a delay in the co-responsibility plan, we cannot accept that this plan for the educational field is not being launched in September. For our band, nothing else, hoping that there will finally be agreement between the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the increase of the vegetables to the Galician rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u127	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is World Water Day, and we're going to talk about pollution, which is very close. And in the plenary of fifteen days ago, I asked Mrs. Infrastructure Advisor through the inquiry thirteen questions about water pollution in Galicia, but those 13 questions didn't answer directly to me, despite the fact that many of them were very clear and concrete: how many dumped did they happen in that year or in another year?, how many sanctioning cases?, how many sanctions were imposed?, why do you import?, etc. And as the Welsh Administration has and has that data, it's obvious that the advisor didn't answer me because she didn't want to; so I have to deduce that she refuses to answer our questions, because the data I asked her do not favor them. Because these data show that the number of spills increases year after year in Galicia, in the rivers and rivers of Galicia. You say that there is no more dumping, what happens is that it detects itself more, recurring argument, which would prove that you are very efficient, but this is obviously a falsification of an obstinate and stubborn reality, which, despite the fact that 22 years of the entry into force of the Water Framework Directive, in which Galicia received hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros theoretically directed to clean up our waters and avoid a contamination that today should not exist, and although you say that you invested 1,100 million euros in the last decade of sanitation, in Galicia pollution is not going any less, but it goes more, because we have a Government of Green Propagandists and Counterfealers who by action or by default allow our rivers and rivers to be contaminated, and systematically make the view of pollution problems. A government, a president who said in this House that the laugh and Vigo is healthy and the Arousa's laugh is practically healthy, despite the fact that the data from Galician Waters, that is, theirs, showed that Vigo's laugh, that Mr. Feijóo said it was healthy, had 209 spill points, 23 of them black spots; and the Arousa's laugh 444 spill points and 56 black points. We know, of course, that Mr Feijó's mind with the same nature as he's breathing; what we didn't know him was that professional skater facet he's been showing lately since he's jumped to Madrid. And I have to tell you that as a skater Mr. Feijóo is making a real paperboard, because every 48 and a half hours, he's about to kick, and offends either half Spain or some not very large collective. Thursday said that vicar violence was not macho violence, although a year ago a proposal was unanimously approved in this Parliament. On Saturday he said the rich are rich because they work more, which is all a radically contrasted social theory, by the way, to that of Honoré de Balzac who said that behind all great fortune there is a crime—not I say it, that Honoré de Balzac said it. Yesterday Mr. Feijóo despectively qualified the Central Government as an autistic, with the logical head and indignation of the people who have autism in this country and their families. So Thursday offends women, on Saturday all those who in Spain are not rich, and yesterday the autists, who are around 450,000 in this country, not to mention, as I say, their families. And today, to finish it, he shot at this Parliament warning that the number of refugees from Ukraine is growing -- he literally said -- or "can grow exponentially," when a President of the Union has to be presumed to distinguish between an arithmetic progression and another geometric or exponential progression. Which, by the way, is that of the viruses, the exponential is that of the viruses, not people. [[Applause]] Come on, since he came out of his comfort zone, Mr. Feijóo is showing some qualities that in Galicia he had frankly much more repressed and that should make many think. For example, about the problem of pollution that leaves us as an inheritance Mr Feijóo, and the best proof of that problem is that today we have 14 marine areas classified as C; that is, 14 areas of our rivers where pollution does not allow shellfish extraction without a prolonged purification process. When we registered this initiative was 13 zones C, a year before it was 12, a little earlier it was 11. But today we have 14 areas classified as C, which is not to say that there are 98 other areas in Galicia where we also need to debug the shellfish even if it's much less intense. I've already set the example for you from the Testal beach in Noia, where you rule, the PP, which has one of Galicia's most important seafood banks; but in that important seafood bank the bathroom has not been allowed for six years because it's so contaminated that bathing involves a risk to health. But, instead, you can float there, even though the very short distance in the same laugh the waste water of Girl, who has a debugger that doesn't work — and it's been many years, by the way, without working — if they turn directly to the stream without debugging. And by the way, to vary, in the full range of Natura 2000, in an area that is also declared by the Joint Special Protection Area of Natural Values. So it's a space that by law should be in an optimal state of environmental conservation; but instead, it's a cloaca in one of the most important rivers in Galicia and — as I say — in a specially protected area — according to you. According to the data — which appear to be secrets and in any case also seem manipulated — that make it easier for you with counters when asked in writing for some means of communication, in Galicia today there would be many more points of opinion than in 2015, when there were 1,296, while in 2021, there were only 1,648 in the first 9 months of the year. I mean, 27% more than in the first nine months of the year compared to six years ago, and, of them, 270 would be black spots, 10% more than the previous year. Just like I tell you, in the first nine months of the year. This even assuming the veracity of non-contrast data independently, which, by violating the law on transparency, are not even available to the public on the Galician Waters website and the Joint Transparency Portal. Although the counselor said the other one would say so, but she knows it's not so and therefore she was lying. I mean, they're not published anywhere, even though you assume you have a permanent inventory of spills, which will possibly be inventory, will be possibly permanent, but it seems like it's a secret. And even though you have full competences set out in the Autonomy Statute on Combating Pollution, Coastal Management, Environment, Fisheries, Aquaculture, Marishe, etc., and, despite receiving you hundreds and hundreds of millions of European funds, you are not able to be up to date in a matter that should be a priority for Galicia, a matter of a highly strategic nature from both economic and environmental point of view. And if we talked about our rivers, I would set them as an example the other day that in the town of the Environmental Counsellor, in the summer of 2019, an industrial spill killed 10,000 trout in the Furelos River, in Melide, in a space that also — to vary — belongs to the Natura 2000 Network. That was the last of the tens of spills that have taken place since the industrial polygon of that municipality was established. And to which the Environmental Adviser did absolutely nothing, nothing, neither as advisor nor before as mayor to avoid this repeated contamination of an ecosystem that is part of the Natura Network, and which is also in the council of the Environmental Adviser. That drop of what I'm talking about came from a dairy company called Dairylac, which was attended by the Union through Xesgalcia by 25%, from which he is president of a PP lord, his companion, named Antonio Coucier. The company that received EUR 4.88 million — which is not a small one — in grants from the Union just over the two years prior to that discharge. Anyway, things from the Board, from the spills, from the PP militants who are presidents of companies participating in the Board, etc. We could also talk about the Ten and Asneiro rivers in the area of Lalín, which have been suffering episodes of repeated contamination for decades. And only in the past summer was there were at least 5 perfectly visible spills also on the Nature Network, one of which also came perfectly visible to the Arousa River. Also last summer another spill caused the death of hundreds of trout in the river Jubia, which suffers from recurrent chronic contamination and leads to the Ferrol River; in the laugh that has problems with the shellfish, which has fallen dramatically in recent times. And last year trouts, sharks, eagles and bogas appeared dead in the Sar River; not to mention the approximately 200,000 litres of purines that poured down the Tambre River and forced them to cut the water from Santiago's treachery. They're just a few examples taken in a somewhat random way. Examples of a situation of constant environmental deterioration of Galician river ecosystems and therefore, on Water Day, we ask for something as elementary as a plan of regeneration of the rivers and rivers of Galicia, which incomprehensiblely does not exist today as such in Galicia; and that the data of discharges be made public and transparent that today, too incomprehensiblely, are inaccessible, at any point inaccessible, in Galicia. Nothing else, and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u129	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u130	Good afternoon. In fact, we're talking again about rivers, rivers, wetlands, which, as we know, are ecosystems of extraordinary value and, in addition, in the case of rivers, we're talking about large production factories. We can say that the largest factory we have in our country because, even though it is now in the dark, abandoned by governments, fishing and the whole sea-industry chain represents 2.1% of GDP, it represents 44,000 jobs and more than 8,850 million euros of economic activity. And, despite this immense value, the reality is that the environmental situation of these ecosystems and, especially, of the rivers, of the 18 rivers of Greece, is very poor. And this valuation, this very poor note, we make it supported by official data reflecting that poor water quality. First of all, the data of the polluting spills we have in the Welsh rivers, which are data that makes public, by the way, through press notes, waters of Galicia because they are not accessible, it's true, on the web. And I use to tell you that you should be updating the Galician Waters website because the latest data that are being uploaded are from 2013, 2013!, that is, the data that appears on the web. So, Mr. Calvo, if you have a chance to speak to the advisor, tell him they're updating the data. What these data tell us through press releases is that last year there were 1,648 spills, of which 265 were contaminants in the Welsh rivers; and, in addition, the laughs that have the most pollutants, due to pollution of urban and industrial spills, are the most productive: the rivers of Walls, Girl and the Arousa River. And the question is that these spills increase year by year, both the total and the pollutants, which were 257 in 2019 and increased to 265 in 2020. Secondly, other figures that are also known, not by Joint Research, but by University-dependent organisms, are those of pollution, for example, by microplastics, by hydrocarbons or by heavy metals, of which there is a genuine silence on the part of the Galician Union, which does no kind of follow-up of this kind of pollution. And thirdly, because of the poor quality of the waters of the fishing and seafood production zones, which is one of the aspects that explains the decline in production, for example, in the case of the babous plum and the Berbek, about what are continually alarming the confrries. Well, the data on Entering is that only 14% -- that is, 22 of these shellfish areas -- are classified A, from 145; which means that there is an immense majority of these areas that are contaminated, some of them with the worst classification, that is classification C. And we have a total of 24% of the water from the river in poor condition, and the Union still sucks and assumes that 76% of the waters are in good condition, when they've been ruling 13 years, and we've only improved by 10 points this figure in these 13 years. And you're violating the mandates of the Water Framework Directive, which said there was already a good water quality in 2015 and then that target was postponed to 2021 and it's still not met. And that is why we have the threat of sanctions from the European Union and the European Commission; and by the way, the Union has already paid EUR 4 million of sanctions for the delay in the works of the debugger of Ribeira and Vigo. And you still above tried a filibustering maneuver trying the remedy they filed before the Supreme who paid that fine to the municipalities of Vigo and Ribeira. And that's what to tell people. And do you know what you claimed in that appeal? That it was the competence of the councils, when it is by law and because works of self-interest were declared in the powers of the Galician Union, and had to do those works to the Galician Union. And there are other towns and cities that also have that threat of sanctions, such as Baiona, Nigrán, Gondomar, Burela, Foz, The Road, and there's also the river Pontevedra. Well, this bad state of water pollution reality, this very poor state of water, is the ultimate responsibility of the People's Party's Union; that's by action, that's by default and that's also by intrusion. And we have to say it clearly, it is the responsibility of the Board because they have the powers. You are determined to say that you do not have the powers, but, look, it is that you clearly tell the Water Law in its Article 28, which says that those works declared to be of interest to the Autonomous Community of Galicia are the competence of the Galician Union; and all those of the Galician-Costa Hydrological Plan are therefore the competence of the Galician Union. So they're not telling that lie around. It is also their responsibility for incompetence, because you also assume that they invested more than EUR 1,100 million in hydraulic works, more than 500 million in the rivers of Greece, and we have the situation in our rivers. That's why they're very bad managers because if with all that money invested, they didn't get a substantial improvement, they're very bad managers. And besides, you say this to yourself when you evaluate the investments of the ERDF Plan, when you say that of the 175 million euros — 175 forecast for the 2014-2021 period — it turns out that only 36% have been executed, when there are so many investment needs; 61.8 million in 6 years of 175, is a real disaster, a disaster in the management of public funds. And then they blame him -- I don't know, the cha-cha-cha -- although they recognize that they're making a plan of action to improve the execution of budgets. And it's also their responsibility for bad planning and a serious model error. Look, last 9th, not last, December 9th, 2016 — it's almost seven years ago — Mrs. Bea Mato, who I don't know what she reminds me of. Remind me when Mr. Fexóo was talking about lining up, remind me of Bea Mato, remind me of Greenalia, remind me of Iberdrola, remind me of Naturgy, remind me of Endesa. The friends of Mr. Fexóo's photographs. [[Applause]] For Mrs Bea Mato said: The board will finish all the stream sanitation planning by 2020. And, you know, we're in 2022 and it's still not doing the General Sanitation Plan, which is going on next year. And, as we already told you in the water cycle debate, there's a serious model problem, because you with these 1,100 million what you've been doing was large investments in infrastructure, installing thousands and thousands of miles of tubing, making large infrastructures on the shore of the sea with submarine emissaries, but they didn't approach a model for Galicia that takes into account the reality of the country: that dispersed population that needs own solutions for our country. And besides you are a divided government, a party government, who are fighting between one and the other continuously, who have the powers in the matter of waters divided between the environment and between the waters of Galicia, which depend on infrastructure. They're fighting those of Galician Waters with those of the Middle Rural Because they don't agree whether the eucalyptus is harmful or not for the river basins. What do the waters of Galicia say yes, that the whole scientific community says, where do we come from? Sea is not understood with Galician waters and, in addition, wants to engage in the competences it has, for example, in the heritage of the Council of Culture and Heritage. I'm a zombie government. I'm a headless chicken. And you know why? Because you have the body here and your head in Madrid, with your boss hanging around in an election campaign all over Spain. Well, after this critical description and after saying that we are going to support this motion by the Socialist Group, which seems to us very basic and very minimal, I suppose that the People's Group will also support it, we also want to focus on proposals, on proposals for the future, because now we have to face this serious crisis in the primary sector, and we have to adopt urgent and immediate shock measures, but we also need to think about major transformations, major improvements in all areas and also in the sea. And that's why the BNG put on the table more than a year ago the Rías Project, a plan for the productive regeneration of the Galician rivers that includes measures such as taking on all the competences that have to do with the sea, the coast and the rivers. Or the creation of a consortium for research and study of the sea and laughter, to have here the largest scientific and technological complex of knowledge of the sea. Thirdly, a plan for the recovery of land occupied in public maritime-terrestrial domain, which you don't seem to care about because you have to protect the interests of friendly companies too, such as Ence, and defending it in front of the public maritime-terrestrial domain. A multi-year sanitation and debugging plan based on general planning. The management of rivers and coroners, for example, with a plan to disintegrate choruses. Production recovery and diversification of rivers. A marketing plan. They are realistic and viable proposals to exercise self-government, to have control of our sea and our coast, to recover the rivers by improving the quality of the waters and multiplying their potential, their enormous environmental, landscape, productive and leisure potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u131	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u132	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Arangénana and Mr. Bará, today we confirm that the old saying is that there is no worse deafness than what you don't want to hear, because, despite all the explanations the counselor gave you in the past plenary, Mr. Arangénana, you're not paying attention; not even if I didn't understand it, I'm sure you understood it; the problem is that you already have a preconceived idea, it gives equally the arguments that you put on the board by the Council, it gives equally all the investments that you put on the table, because you want to come here criticising what you're doing to Junta de Galicia. You have no doubt or doubt about lying or telling half-truths. And nothing and no one will change the prejudice you have toward this People's Party Government. You have become a good example of what your party has become: it only seeks to confront and fill with provocations, with insinuations, it would say, scratching the line, even sometimes passing it. But you can't help it. Indeed, it does not bring anything, as its political group, and politically speaking is useless its contribution or its intervention. It's a good example of that constructive moderation to which today the voicer of his group alluded here in this rostrum. I was talking about making a positive contribution, just as you do in each of your speeches since you are a Member in this House. You should know — I'm sure you know, what happens is that you're not interested in recognizing it — that Junta since 2009, actually has invested more than EUR 1,100 million in helping municipalities with their obligations, in sanitation and purification, of which 500 were for all of the people's concentrations, the populations that are next to them, in the surroundings of the rivers. And this has made it possible for 90 percent of the agglomerations today to comply with the European Debug Directive and 76% of the herds in the rivers are in good condition. But it's not all right, Mr. Aranguena. In the last plenary session you were talking about the stream of the Coruña, today you're talking about the stream of Walls and some of them as well. And he said in the stream of the Coruña, he was going towards the Union that he didn't invest anything. I don't understand how a Member who lives in the Coruña can come here and say that, go back home and don't get colored. I don't understand, really. Because above political disputes are people and there is the professionalism of people. You know that more than 100 million euros have been invested in the Coruña creek. And it was done because the town halls around the Coruña creek didn't do what they had to do. By the way, Coruña, Culleredo, Cambre, ruled always by the Socialist Party except for a few exceptions. But they didn't do what they had to do, and those muds that have to be taken out of the river today are because the municipalities didn't fulfill their duties. And that's what you guys tried to manipulate the Coruña Fisherman's Congress by saying they were going to the judge to claim the amounts at last they realized they were in the Ministry's jurisdiction. But you have to know — which you know, I am absolutely sure — that these powers are municipal, competences about sanitation services, purification, they are direct and exclusive responsibility of the municipalities; and control of discharges of the sanitation network is also the competence of the municipalities, Mr Arunguena. Does this mean that the Galician Union is looking somewhere else? No, don't look the other way. He never did. In fact, we are going to bring to this Parliament the Law of the Whole Water Cycle. We'll have time to debate it. Together is aware of the limitations of the municipalities. Look, in Pontevedra they are not able to take the debugger and take it to the Galician Union; they are not able to have a public transport service and do it to the Galician Union. You'll see if the Galician Union compensates for the incapacity of some municipalities. But it's been doing it a long time. I'd like to know, in your intervention, what you mean when you have to help other administrations in a coordinated way. Do you mean that the allegations made by the deputies will change them and the Socialist Party believes that the deputies — which are the council of the municipalities — will be able to collaborate with these sanitation projects? If you mean that, I withdraw the saying so far, I apologize and thank your support. Well, a deputy like the Crown Deputy, in which only 40% is executed according to the general account approved, I think you have enough resources to be able to meet these needs. More than 300 million euros in banks and pays interest to banks for having that money there 750,000 euros a year. All of a management example, Mr. Aranguena, all of a management example. What are their principles? Sure, the block comes here and looks somewhere else. Logically, a necessary collaborator and therefore has the same burden of guilt as the Socialist Party. Look, you have a first point at your initiative that says you're drawing even an integral stream regeneration plan, etc. I'm telling you, the Water Cycle Improvement and Management Bill is pursuing efficient and effective management of the collection network and debugging systems. And I've already told you that EUR 1,100 million was invested, that 500 went for the rivers and that in the budgets this year 2022 the Galician Union has EUR 102 million to support the municipalities; 40 million for the municipalities next to the rivers. So it doesn't make any sense. Point two. Upload and make it transparent and accessible. I'll read you the draft of the last session we had in this plenary session. Your intervention, textually, I'm going to read it: "You tell me I don't look at Galician Waters website. I challenge you to find me on the Galician Waters or Joiner's website on the transparency portal somewhere in the dump data, just the number, I don't tell you the specification anymore. They don't exist, Counselor. And therefore you are deceiving this Parliament and citizenship. You have them completely hidden." [[Applause]] Today he said it again, and Mr Bará followed him and seconded him in that contribution. Look, as this is collected in the Diary of Sessions, pay attention and, if you like, write it down if you give it time or I'll slow it down. Web page aguasdecalicia.junta.gal. Heading: Water control activities. Subpart: Dump Control Programme. It's a name you might think you can talk about anything, less the control of spills. Vertitude control program, is more, page 38 on page 50. [[Murmurs.]] I'll give you more data. Here are the targets, the media, the field of competition, the performances, the alerts managed by areas, typology; the number of alerts per week and per zone; the number of inspections carried out per week, 8,000. In 2020, Mr Bará, these are the latest published data, not 2013. You should apologize, you should apologize, you should forgive; 2020. [[Applause]] Evolution of inventory spills. Mr. Aranguena, continue. Evolution of inventory spills. Per week, per zone, whether they are contaminants, signs or non-contaminants. Number of discharges according to the nature of dumping and area, differentiating between farmers-gander, domestic, urban, industrial or unknown. Number of dumps according to priority. In laughter, those who do not meet the limits and those who do not meet the limits, within which they do not meet the limits, highly contaminants and contaminants. And they also come in the year 2020. These and many more data are on the website, every year. The last year published is 2020. So after listening to you say that in the last plenary session and today I come again to say this, I tell you you have the opportunity in your next intervention to apologize to the counselor and apologize to all the citizens who listened to you because you lied. You lied. [[Applause]] We could say that you lie more than you speak, as you say Mr. Feijóo does, but that's not what I'm going to say. There you are. What's clear is that you come here and mind, insults everything you can and says all sorts of claims that nothing happens at all. And then we listened to the voices of the Socialist Party saying that constructive interventions must be made. Well, it's a pity you haven't heard his speech at all. But, look, the truth is, he's been working for many years, he's got a lot of millions of euros invested, he's been planning his work with the municipalities, he's helping the municipalities with all the colors. The limitations of the municipalities are known to carry out these tasks. That's why we're working together so far, and that's why we're still working together. I hope that this data, if you want and you can't find it, I, who am not a specialist in these things, also show myself willing to help you find them. But I hope that this data will serve you to come here, to apologize for your words for these repeated accusations. Because in his intervention today, I devoted myself to targeting everyone and each of the adjectives devoted to this government, I did nothing else. I've filled up a stretcher, a whole note. I ask you to come here and apologize for all the lies you've been telling in this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u133	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Author of the motion, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u134	Mr. Calvo, look, you're probably not going to give us all a cure to find that data on the Galician Waters website, I'm going to have to give it to me, and I'm going to give it to Mr. Bará, which I actually agree with Mr. Bará that the latest data on that website is from 2013, that will also give it to many journalists who have spoken and to whom I speak periodically, who say that there is no such data found on the Galician Waters website. The truth is, in the last ten days, I haven't looked, perhaps after what I've told the advisor, they've put the data somewhere. I don't discard that. I'll do what I tell you. It's also true that he was searching right now according to his indications and couldn't find them. So I don't have to apologize for anything, at any rate you have to apologize for because that data, assuming they're there, is absolutely impossible to find. So you're sorry, Mr. Calvo, and I encourage you to help me find that data; please help me find that data yourself. [[Applause]] Look, you're talking about investments, well, yes, you're following with the same mackerel: 2,100 million investments in the last decade. I've already told you again, first of all, if they were from your pocket, because it would be very good, it would be very worthwhile for you to invest 1,100 million in purification in hydraulic works, but, if it's true that you invested them, mostly from European funds, what's also true is that pollution goes further, according to the data not listed on the Galician Waters website but that if you make it easy to see press rounds every time or when you ask them for some means of communication, you have to ask them. Because in recent times, a number of media outlets have asked them for that data and they've had to make a great effort to make it easier for you to make it easier for them, but they mustn't run the Galician Waters website either. Therefore, pollution goes further to its own data, because I repeat: in 2015 there were 1,296 dumping points in Galicia, in 2021, according to its own data there were 1,648 in the first nine months, and if we do an extrapolation every year because there could almost be 800 more points in five years of dumping. And so what do you do with the money you see? Why does pollution increase if you invest as much as they say? Then he talks about skills, they're always with the same mackerel of skills. You are competent in the works of general interest, point 1, and all these are works of general interest, so you are competent. Point 2, you are competent in environmental matters and in the fight against pollution, and therefore you are competent. What are other competent administrations, especially the councils?, because of course, no one tells you that the councils are not competent, but the priority, fundamental and primary competence in an administration that is attached to the territory and that is mainly responsible in Galicia is the Council of Galicia obviously and you on this subject as well as in so many others because they do the usual, that is to say they are not competent, it is incomprehensible to say that you are not competent in the fight against pollution because you have organisms dedicated to it, and you yourself are saying that they invest a lot, but then they say they are not competent. In short, the problem of pollution in our rivers is not only an environmental problem, but it is an economic and social problem, because, as I have already said on one occasion, in the Noia creek, 3,000 people have come to sail, which are twice as many as at present. In the Coruña 2,000 people and today there's practically no shellfish. By the way, Mr. Calvo, he was talking about the stream regenerating project of the Crown, and he tells me it's incomprehensible that I say I don't know what. The stream regeneration project is going to put in place by a progressive government, the government of the state, it's 32 million euros and you don't put a penny of the euro. So you don't talk to me, you don't throw me the data here because that's the reality, you don't invest a penny of euro in the regeneration of the stream of the Crown that is being carried out by a progressive government, regardless of whether you've obviously carried out certain investments over the past decade, you'd just lack that demonstration that you're competent. [[Applause]] What did he say to them, for example, that Ferrol's has been marscasing for less than a decade, 600 people today who don't reach 70, and the same phenomenon reproduces in greater or lesser extent in each and every one of Galicia's laughs. And in the rivers there is something similar, very similar, and this is a very important issue, a strategic issue, an issue that has an economic importance, an issue that has environmental importance, a subject on which you, I insist, have all the competences of the world and more, they receive European funds at large, and, as Mr Bará said, this is a proposal of minimums, of minimums that you should accept; in fact, if you tell me that the data are already accessible exactly the way in which we ask for it on our initiative, if you want the voting by points, you will vote that yes, because that as you are already will not cost you to vote in favour, will you, Mr Calvo? If you vote that no, you'll know why it is. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u135	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. After the debate on these motions, we shall proceed to the vote on these motions. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores. Excuse me? If you would ask for a point of vote, will you accept a point of vote? No, you don't. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of integral care for women's health The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The voting is negative This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u136	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the Greek Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility 2018-2021 Give a voice to Mrs. Díaz Varela's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u137	We agreed to a transaction that says at the first point: "Presenting to the Galician Parliament before the end of the year the evaluation of the first Greek plan of conciliation and co-responsibility in conjunction with the Plan of Action for Equality in Galician Educational Centres." The second point: "Presenting to the Galician Parliament, before the end of the year, the 2nd Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2022-2025, which, with co-responsibility as a priority challenge, already collects concrete and budgeted actions to develop in the health, education or social sectors." The third point: "To carry out a comprehensive study in collaboration with the Greek universities on co-responsibility in Galicia, with data on the distribution of time and distribution of domestic tasks and care between women and men, as well as the social perception that exists on this subject." And a fourth point: "Designing a awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaign in the field of family co-responsibility, promoting the participation of men as necessary benchmarks in family co-education and care."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u138	Thanks for the deal. The truth is, I didn't expect less. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u139	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Arangüena, on the increase in greenery in the German rivers. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the increase of the vegetables to the Galician rivers The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. That motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u140	The motion votes have been finished here. We're still on the agenda. Fifth point, non-law proposals. Non-law proposal by G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, initiative by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the adoption by the Government of the measures necessary to regulate the basic card and configure it as an emergency aid that serves as a bridge to other social benefits There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of the Minister of the Republic of Galicia, through his spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of addition, which will be drafted with the following content: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to reformulate the basic board to incorporate in this provision the families of refugees and refugees from Ukraine."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u141	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Writer Rebecca Solnit says in her last book, the mother of all questions, that empathy is an account that we tell ourselves so that other people will find ourselves real, to feel for and with them, and in that way - I said - to expand, expand and open ourselves. It's a little selfish to define Rebecca Solnit's empathy in this case, which is a wonderful and highly recommended writer, but today I propose to do this exercise. Do this exercise of empathy and that all the people of the House, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament, the people of the media who accompany us, we put ourselves on the skin of a person who lives alone in our country, with income of less than 535 euros a month, we name him, Manuel, pensioner, or on the skin of a single parent mother, Carla, who lives with less than 281 euros a month and a dependent child. They're not supposed, although names are fictitious for reasons of privacy, they're real people, flesh and bone, in a situation of severe poverty, according to the definition of this reality that makes the European Union. They are homes in our country with incomes of less than 6,417 euros per unit of consumption per year. Manuel and Carla are two names of the 253,000 people in severe poverty in Galicia with 2020 data, and they are users of the basic card powered by the Galician Union. Let's think about how these houses, Manuel's houses and Carla's houses or anyone else in poverty and social exclusion in our country, to which the bill of light goes from 78 euros in February 2021 to 206 euros in February 2022. I asked them for a photograph, because it's not a hypothetical case that I invented to bring here, it's two real bills of a house, a flat, a popular neighborhood of the city of Coruña, with two adult people, a 85 square meters floor, which in February 2021 paid 78 euros of light bill and in February 2022 paid 206 euros, 78 to 206 euros. Let's imagine how they are faced in that house in Carla or Manuel's or in any person in poverty and social exclusion in Galicia that the butter candy goes from 13 euros to 19. How is it that the bread bar costs 30 cents more than last year and going up, or that it fills the tank of the car, a small car, a 2014 Renault Clio cost 37 liters of normal diesel oil 68 euros? This is real yesterday at the Arzua gas station myself, my 2014 Clio. That brutal price escalation we've been talking about practically everything that comes from plenary session, that which we're all living, that's called inflation in the media, hits all society, all of it. But it affects to a greater extent a very important part of our society, especially the one who was already suffering from it. I'm going back to that poverty data that was giving up in 2020, before this brutal price escalation started. That poverty situation and the worsening of the material living conditions affect more people who are unemployed, but also people who have precarious jobs, part-time jobs, intermittent jobs, low wages and even more spin-off pensions. Let's go back to the previous figures, to those 253,000 people in severe poverty who were -- and there are still today -- in Galicia but with 2020 data. Of the 253,000 people in severe poverty, 70% are pensioners, 170,000 are pensioners below the threshold where severe poverty is considered. 170,000 people are 8 times the population of the municipality of Lalin in line, pim, pim, pim. 170,000 people, 8 times the population of the municipality of Lalin in row. They get less than 6,500 euros a year, less than 600 euros a month. And these people have mostly, in their vast majority, a woman's face, because poverty in Galicia understands social class and also understands gender. Poverty in our country is largely about women, so says the Galician Network against Poverty, reports from the Social Policy Council following the Risk, and also tells us the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. This before that brutal price rise we're living in, where we're immersed. The real photograph of poverty in Galicia today is the biggest cause of the widespread impoverishment of the population, which means inflation like we haven't lived in the last 30 years in this country. I, who have 32, couldn't remember in my life anything like that price escalation we've been living in the last few weeks. For example, if 17 cents went up the price of gasoline and gasoline in 3 days, he was unable to remember anything like that. And in that context, the Galician Union, what does it do within the framework of its powers, which was one of the questions being raised in this Chamber this morning at the presence of the President of the Union. Because you have frozen the autonomic complement of non-contributory pensions, because you have to actually ask yourself what you can do and what you can do within the framework of your competences. For example, to defuse that autonomous complement of non-contributory pensions, which more than a decade ago — more than 10 years ago — the People's Party has kept frozen, having or keeping a population that perceives small incomes and that is not compatible with other economic benefits, having them in a situation far below what we consider to be fundamental incomes for a decent life. They also vote systematically against the rise of that autonomic complement to non-contributory ones each time the Galician Nationalist Block brings this proposal to this Parliament, again and again in each of the budgetary debates. They don't deconze the autonomic complement of noncontributives. They continue without reforming the Act of Social Inclusion to change the Risk, to make it compatible with the Vital Minimum Income; and, above all, to ensure that people who receive or are beneficiaries of this social benefit can count on an income as they deserve to face this economic environment, or indeed the cost of life at any time. And then -- where we want to focus more today on the proposal we brought from the BNG -- they put an expiry date on the Basic Card, that emergency aid for the acquisition of first-needed goods, food, pharmaceuticals or personal hygiene, which started to deal with the crisis, the social and economic emergency caused by the pandemic, and which has its completion date in June 2022. That already has consequences for people who are beneficiaries of this economic benefit of an urgent nature, because the Basic Card is renewed quarterly, but those people who ask for it now are not being renewed unless they have been without it for six months. There are recorded, documented and transferred cases to this parliamentary group — to the BNG — by the workers and social workers in our country, where, granted this aid in January, it ends in March and is no longer renewed because they would have to spend 6 months before they could carry out that renewal. And as it ends from June, i.e., in July, there would no longer be this emergency and emergency aid, they're no longer renewing this allowance. Today we bring this initiative back to debate, we did it almost a month ago in Commission 5 because the situation — and I think today we all agree this morning — is much worse today than we had in our country a month ago. And then in that debate we warned from the BNG that the situation would go worse because it had just happened a few days before — if not the day before — that military invasion of Russia into Ukraine. And that, in addition to the obvious human consequences, like any war, would also have an economic consequence that would pay the workers, the workers and the social majority of the Member States of the European Union. So we said that we would bring this proposal again and again — sometimes it was necessary — once again, because we consider it to be the least we can and must make a Government in these circumstances. The Basic Card will not solve the structural problems that make a person — thousands in our country — find himself in a situation of poverty and social exclusion, or risk of suffering. It will not solve the structural problems of Manuel or Carla — the examples he put at first — that live with less than 600 euros a month, because their main problem often stems from problems of an economic structural nature, lack of employment or quality employment. But for Carla and Manuel the main problem, their urgency with which they get up every day from their bed is how they're going to pay for the gas bill or the bill of light, or think they're going to feed their son. And then the Basic Card is a measure — that we have said it and we don't fall down our rings — it's a good measure, a necessary measure and that must be kept in time. For empathy — as Solnit said — but above all for social justice and because it is right, what we propose is that this card be kept, regulated as an emergency measure, and that it have a permanent character, regulating it as a part, like a bridge, forgiveness, up to real and effective access to economic benefits other features such as Risk or Minimum Vital Income. Today morning there was a reference to an appointment by Oscar Wilde, with which I agree, and I also find it timely at this time: "Are we going to accept despair without doing anything?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The question is who does something, and who does nothing? Today we have a concrete, simple proposal — simple in its formulation, complex for many families — that depends only on the Union, no one else, it does not depend on anyone else, only on the Council of Galicia within the framework of its competences. It's a necessary, fair and right measure. We hope to count — now yes — with the unanimous support of this House. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the amending group, the Socialist Party, has the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I don't want to get into exactly what the Basic Card is, which is a fundamental benefit, because you told Mrs. Rodil very well, but I do want to start by giving some data that I think are relevant and that the Greek citizenship has to know. January 2022 — very little now — after two years of pandemic, the report on minimum incomes for the inclusion of the State Association of Directors and Social Services Managers at the state level was published. The results of this report leave Galicia in a worrying situation since it is from the autonomous communities that get the worst data. In fact, Galicia only reaches 5% of the coverage of Welsh and Welsh people who live below the poverty line, when in other autonomous communities they reach up to 60%. In addition, it shows that Risga's own counties are the lowest in the state compared to the average of autonomous communities. And all of this we have to add to the aggravating fact that we are also from the autonomous communities that you least invest in per resident potentially dependent. But in addition, in one of the last reports, we also know that we are from the autonomous communities that are less than actually investing in social services, making the quality of social services worse, which has an impact on the most vulnerable citizenship. In view of this situation and following numerous proposals by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the need to study the new context of social exclusion in Galicia derived from the passage of the pandemic; and in this context, as well as in the need for a powerful plan against poverty, with particular attention to child poverty; and since 2020 where the Government of Spain has created the Minimal Vital Income, which has been conceived as a complementary income to the autonomous incomes, we have already warned the Council that the Galician Income, Risga, is incompatible with the Minimal Vital Income in the Act of Social Inclusion of Galicia. So, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have insisted and reiterated for almost two years now on the need to adapt the German Act of inclusion itself to allow compatibility with the Minimal Vital Income, because it is urgent. The council says yes and you agree -- this for a year and a half, almost two -- but it really doesn't materialize, it doesn't happen; and there are a lot of people waiting in very complicated situations and in a situation of vulnerability that is an emergency that can't wait. Currently, the Minimal Vital Income covers nearly 40,000 Welsh and Welsh, and in the latest report on minimum incomes for the inclusion of the State Association of Directors and Social Service Managers, it is indicated that there are 7 autonomous communities that reduce the number of persons benefiting from their minimum incomes and cut the budget with the alibis of the Minimal Vital Income, and among them Galicia. This is what Feijóo would call for but at the expense of the most vulnerable, and being himself the most responsible in Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Inclusion, José Luis Escrivá, announced, together with the President of the Union, a pilot project against child poverty with more than 10 million euros of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will benefit about 6,000 people until June 2023, which is an important step in the fight against child poverty, given that Galicia has very high figures of child poverty, as reflected in the official map with the data of the High Commissioner against Child Poverty, where the incidence and data are accumulated, the sad data of child poverty in Galicia. Because, as Mrs Rodil said, poverty in Galicia has a woman's face, but unfortunately poverty in Galicia also has a child's face, and we need to take important steps in this matter. We must continue to move through the Social Policy Council and materialize once and for all the compatibility of the Risk with the Minimum Vital Income in the Act of Inclusion; as well as a plan to increase the staff of the community social services themselves to speed up the procedures of minimum incomes; and a powerful work integration project adapted to the new socio-economic circumstances, which are, as Mrs Rodil said, worse now. And, of course, one of the issues that worked and worked is the Basic Card, so from the German Government they have the duty to shield a benefit that is a clear advance. We've been very difficult for people for two years; the first wave of the pandemic has impacted unexpectedly on the lives of people we never thought we'd have to live like this. Suddenly, social services received users with different profiles derived from the pandemic's own circumstances, increasing overcosts for the municipalities themselves, encrypted in more than 6 million euros a month. And the fact is that the administrations have put in place mechanisms for the protection of citizenship without which it would be impossible to move forward. By the Government of Spain, urgent social and economic measures were activated, essential aids, such as ERTE for more than 200,000 Greeks, benefiting from more than 600 million euros; Minimum Vital Income, at the end of last year, the balance of perceivers in Galicia was already nearly 40,000 Greeks and Greeks; the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage, pension reform to achieve that increase for more than 10 and a half million people who earn a pension in Spain, and nearly 800,000 Welsh people in Galicia who — as the spokesperson of the Government of Spain — would justify only this measure. More than 500 million for self-employed people, and more than 234 million for direct aid for self-employed people and businesses in economic sectors most affected by the pandemic in the first half. Nearly 6 million euros of extraordinary subsidy to shield those 4,660 Welsh people who exhausted their unemployment benefit during the first state of alarm. More than 9 million euros for the Greeks and the Greeks with a contract made the discontinuum. More than 2.5 million to cover the 60,000 Welsh and Welsh within the food aid plan. More than 13 million for the thermal social bonus, more than 6 million for the concerted plan. More than a million euros for the Children's Food Rights Guarantee Program during vacations, when schools are closed, and with that, the dining rooms as well. More than 215 million for active employment policies, for Greek citizenship. More than 10.8 million have been destined for the corresponding plan 2021. More than 6 million have been allocated to the educational reinforcement programme: more than 2.3 million for the financing of textbooks; more than 21 million for the promotion of vocational training; more than 10 million for the education of 0-3 years for the creation of 1,139 public and free squares; more than 17 million for the universities in Greece. More than 45 million for long-term care, social services and universal accessibility; nearly 20 million for the dependency shock plan; more than 4.2 million to ensure universal accessibility to housing for older persons with disabilities or dependent status... and many other funds that I don't have time to appoint, but I think it's fair that Greek citizenship knows the large amount of resources that since the Spanish Government has transferred to Galicia and be aware that, as well as in other autonomous communities, these funds and own resources are being used to reach more people in a vulnerable situation, in Galicia we are from autonomous communities that we least cover. But while other autonomous communities take advantage of all these resources, for example, to overcome access to housing, for example, powerful policies for employment. And just as the Government of Spain has created exceptional aids motivated by the social emergency of the pandemic, such as the Minimal Vital Income, in Galicia the Basic Card, managed by the Red Cross, I assumed a key resource, not only to shorten the socio-economic crisis, but to move forward in a new concept of resources that deviate from traditional assistanceism with the greatest respect for the dignity of people. That's why we believe that, just as the Minimal Vital Income was born in an emergency, but it's here to stay, the Basic Card has to come and stay. And, in words from Rede Galega against Poverty: "It is positive that a measure that has been claimed for years as an essential first step, betting for the dignity of people, betting for the dignity of people, the removal of assistanceism and stigmatization and the economic injection it will entail for the proximity trades, where people will be able to acquire articles like the rest of their citizenship." There's not much more to add, this theme is key considering that we've been immersed in a pandemic for two years and now within a complex situation due to the invasion of Ukraine, so we also propose the amendment to add it that they have at their disposal to value it. From the Socialist Group we absolutely support this proposal that coincides with the demand that are making the daily movement that fights against poverty in Galicia. And we deeply regret a question that happened a few days ago, which I mean here today, because the truth is it was regrettable. We regret this very much, this is nothing more and nothing less than the spokesperson for the Government of Madrid of Mrs Ayuso's People's Party frivolizing with the most vulnerable people, turning around to see where the poor were and questioning the data from the Caritas report. We believe that Feijóo in his new role as leader of the People's Party at the national level has an obligation not only to give explanations for decency and responsibility, but to require immediate action on this issue to Ayuso. [[Applause]] But in the same way I deeply regret, and more because of my profession as a psychologist, that here is spoken in a banal way, for example, of an anxiety attack, when I saw so many people suffer very badly because of this kind of situation or a panic attack, for example; but I also deeply regret the pesorative form of the term autism by Mr. Feijóo to attack the Government, so I want to give a word to this Parliament, to which Mr. Feijóo still belongs, by the Autism-Spain Association. "Unfortunate words of Feijóo using autistic in a pejorative way. People with autism struggle every day for respect for their dignity as citizens and citizens of full right, and public representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u144	You have to finish, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u145	... have special responsibility for their proper treatment." We demand correction from Mr Feijóo and he has responsibility and takes care of the words he uses. And finally, President, saying that this initiative and the support of our group to it shows that when things work well, we support them regardless of what they come from, and so should it be when people's lives get better. So the People's Party, which supports the German Government, has the duty at this difficult time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u146	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u147	...to correspond to the commitment by the Greeks and the Greeks in a vulnerable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u148	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the People's Party, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u149	Thank you very much, President. Cito: "From Autism Spain we want to show our gratitude to Feijóo for his apologies and for the interest shown in helping to disseminate a positive image of people with autism and their families." How good it would be for all politicians if, when you make a mistake, you had the speed so that you had the president to apologize! By decency... [[Applause]] Paraphrasing Mr. Álvarez, indeed; at last... Look, I think we can all empathize with the situation of people who are going through it, and that doesn't mean we have to match the instruments to fight that situation of difficulty. Today we hear here, for example, a long profusion of investments and transfers that seems to have made us the Government of Spain, which made the PSdeG's voicer. Look, he made us so much that, until he was legally forced to return the IVE that we had to claim to him, you were able to draw a note by congratulating on the contribution the Socialist Government had made to the Galician community. You have to have a tough face, I really tell you, you have to have a tough face. [[Applause]] Look, I was reminded today by some of the speeches that the famous phrase of a very prominent woman said that "socialism loves the poor so much that it insists on multiplying them." I also remembered another Einstein saying, "If you want different results, you do different things." Look, there's less than one less I've shown you my satisfaction with the excellent valuation you make of the Basic Card, an assessment that I have to say we share with you and with the associations that defend it. 54,000 cards were used to provide basic food and hygiene-pharmacy resources to thousands of citizens anonymously and without stigmatizing it, and that was why the Galician Union dedicated 42 million euros. But we also explain that the Basic Card was born as a temporary response to an extraordinary situation, caused by the pandemic, and that, in the progressive transit towards a new normal situation, a new planning of the ordinary resources of those who have the Greek social system is needed, and that doesn't mean that it disappears or is guaranteed, simply that it has to be evaluated. Social policy is already working on reforming the Galician Social Inclusion Act to improve and increase the coverage of economic benefits, including social inclusion aid. And I think I remember having my hand to vote for contributions, because I think the new situation needs to get close to everyone, to real ones, because we all remember some panacea like that of the minimum vital income, which has forgotten us, and it turns out that people continue without having met their basic needs even though they guarantee us just the opposite. The new social situation needs new instruments, because to the wounds of the pandemic we're going to have to add the derivatives of the price crisis of the basic food basket, the light basket, the fuels, and the fast and widespread increase of inflation. I think this is an undeniable reality. From this undeniable reality each Administration has to decide what its attitude will be. Together, she decided to move forward, look for solutions, and get on the side of the most affected citizens. He took action at last Thursday's Council, announced today the same measures he will take at the next Council and will continue to take action, as President Feijó said this morning, for as long as it takes. Last week we met the expansion of the Thermal Social Bonus to alleviate the situation of more than 66,000 families, with these approaches of between 128 and 373 euros for heating, hot water and kitchen, which now increases to 100 euros more to pay the bill, the receipt of light. Aid to the livestock sector, which is going wrong, the way of financing the circulator, for the advance of aid, especially the aid to the CAP; aid to the sea sector by providing liquidity through the compensation of port charges; aid to the transport sector, the transport of autonomous competition, of course, with an economic injection to compensate for the rise in fuel. Today Igape's auctions have been announced for small and medium-sized enterprises, direct loans from the manufacturing industry; two measures worth 70 million euros that will be mobilised, 140 mobilizations that will drag these 70. Flexibility of the goods already granted and which already enjoy some small companies by the Galician Energy Board, the Peme Energy Bond, dedicated and focused on trade, the hospitality, the small and medium-sized company, and which will allow you to face an aid of up to 6,000 euros to acquire equipment that reduces energy consumption, the activation of the tourism bonus, the digitisation aid of the tourism sector and the reinforcement of existing measures to deal with the bill of light by families. You can share, you can consider that you can get better. I understand all that, but to say that the Board is not laying hands on the work to improve the situation of people who are going through it wrong is simply false. Together it's working and it's working very hard. But I said that every administration has to decide what its attitude will be. Mr. Sánchez's government, the government that you and others have invested in, has taken another different attitude. First, he announced that he was delaying any decision by the end of the month, because, as he heard here speaking the voices of the two parties that preceded me in the use of the word, the situation is unsustainable and urgent. But it seems that compensatory measures can be delayed by the end of the month, and nothing happens, nothing happens. From there, for he did the usual, put in place the ventilator's strategy and order the search for culprits of the situation between, if I allow the expression, the usual suspects, the usual ones. Inflation is fired, it's Putin's fault. The social protests, a classic, are blamed on the far right. For any other problem that arises, because internalizing a novelty, it's Feijóo's fault. And that's how you can explain any problems that are happening in Spain right now. Sure, they forget a few little details. Look, inflation had already hit us and very hard, by the way, before the invasion of Ukraine took place. The only common meat that transporters in this country have is not that of any party, it's driving, and, as you don't get it right away, it's going to be unemployment. So, please!, and this is what I'm going to ask you as a transporter's son, who was born in that house, as a transporter's son, I would ask you a little respect for the people who manifest themselves because you want to eat. A little respect. [[Applause]] Because I don't know if anyone has a family in the transport world, but I assure you it's a job of enormous hardness and I think it deserves a certain respect. And of course, apart from that, Feijóo we've met, Feijóo is the leader of the opposition already with full powers to totally blame him for everything, but that's right, to pick up the phone and inform him about state affairs, it doesn't matter. This is already from Seville, but as long as you can carry on your back any responsibility for anything that happens anywhere in this country. Today you were asked here to take action on Mrs Ayuso, here in the Galician Parliament. Well! And those who don't want to talk about Galicia are us, who sends tricks, sends tricks! Look, I'm sorry, and I'm really sorry, that the PSdeg joins this strategy of Mr. Sánchez's demagogy, presenting an amendment, by the way, that hides two basic issues: the first, that the Basic Card is still in force, is that you talk about the Basic Card as if... it's still in force. And, as if you've flexed several times, we'll see what your journey is. And the second, that the Basic Card is accessible, from the first minute, to all refugees, to all, whatever their origin; because we are not going to distinguish between first and second refugees. And it will allow me to think, because, if I don't do it here today, there are people I can't look at. Look, you have to have a sense of humor a little strange, if you allow me, to ask for explicit support for refugees fleeing the invasion of a foreign power of your country four days after the trapping of the 174,000 refugees who live in the camps in Algeria, the 174,000 Saharawis who trusted Spain's support for a just solution to their conflict. No, maybe they didn't realize... if, indeed, you're right, Mrs. Rumbo, it's amazing. We are going to offer the Ukrainian refugees all the social instruments we have, including the Basic Card and the Risk card as it was said this morning. By the way, I hope that the collaboration of the PSOE for these refugees will be included in the international protection program, which would give it the complete coverage that we believe they deserve and do not convert Ukraine into an autonomy dependent on Russia's sovereignty, which was the solution that they gave to the Saharan people, regrettable. Yeah, sorry. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, and I tell you because the proposals that are being heard throughout this day about how to deal with this crisis, we are here, and I would like to remind you, to make the poor richer and not face all day, try all day to justify that it is the rich who have to be poorer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To close this non-law proposition, you have the floor of your author, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u151	Thank you, President. Poor Marx! If you raise your head, because the poor aren't poor because they were born that way, even if you reproduce the poverty of parents and mothers to children. There is something called wealth accumulation, class struggle and even a... there are material situations that explain the fact that there are people who find themselves in a situation of poverty and social exclusion, and there are also others who accumulate and accumulate wealth that often do absolutely nothing or even for generals, but we're not going to put ourselves in that now. I'm about the amendment, we're not going to accept it; I think it's just explained perfectly who can access the Basic Card today, and I fully agree that it seems very unfair to me, and we fully agree that the people sheltered from the war and the Russian invasion of Ukraine have access, of course, to all the resources they need as any refugee or asylum-seekers come from wherever they come from, come from where they come from. Because here too, I believe that it is a reflection and we will bring this debate because it deserves to be done in a specific way, but that European directives are activated that are more than ten years old and, when Greece has become almost an open-sky refugee camp, these mechanisms were not used to guarantee the right to life and human dignity of so many people who have ended up in a common grave like the Mediterranean, because I believe that it also owes us to people who have lived in the European Union a quite profound reflection on the double measuring rod that there is, the double measuring rod that there is. [[Applause]] Then we won't accept the amendment. And it was said that, if we wanted different results, I also referred to my first intervention which was an initiative that we had already brought to debate in commission 5 a month ago, and we wanted different results, we should do something different. Look, I a week ago BNG proposed at the Speaker's Board that we attend today at the first hour of the morning. Seven days later, circumstances changed or saw the political opportunity and accepted what seven days earlier was unacceptable. You were talking about whether or not the maintenance of the Basic Card depended on the social and economic situation that at the time it was created by the pandemic, the circumstances derived from the pandemic and that today the situation was another, distinct, a new social and economic situation that at least questioned whether it was relevant or not this instrument to address the economic consequences that we have today, the current economic environment. I tell you, today's generalized impoverishment of the population is much worse today than we had at the worst moment of confinement when there were so many people we had to stay in our home. Because today, when he had 50 euros, he went with his 50 euros and he gave you what they gave you 50 euros; today 50 euros don't come to anything to make the purchase. I mean, we have a much greater precariousness and a situation of widespread impoverishment of the population that is so much greater than we had in this country a year ago. So if the instruments were useful a year ago to pull out people who had the worst economic situation ahead, I tell them today it's relevant to keep it. And you said, "Keep on your feet," yes, but the fact that you put an expiry date on it and that from June this year, that is, from July 2022 onwards there is no such thing, it's already causing that there are people who don't get renewed, because it has a renewal, as you know perfectly, quarterly, and this is something that warns us of workers and social workers and people who are going to benefit from this economic benefit. I insist that it was necessary and urgent to keep the Basic Card the last time it was renewed, and the economic environment demands even more firmly that it be kept in force from June 2022, or at least that it be kept in force until the normality of life's intensification and charities is recovered a little. Because this situation won't solve it, really, it won't solve it or even put an end to the transport strike. I mean, we're on a price escalation that came from before the Russian invasion and that's going to have an impact and consequences far beyond the paralysis that I'm supposed to curb transport services in recent years. We like the announcements that are made, but, of course, what changes people's lives is the DOG, not the statements made by a president of the board, a report that comes out of their sleeves at the board of assembly on 17 March. What really changes people's lives in this country is to publish these ads in the Official Journal of Galicia. [[Applause]] It seems great to us to announce a good energy for pemes, so that an autonomous person, for example, can choose to buy a more energy efficient equipment; but today we have many autonomous people unable to cope with what the bill of light costs. And I say, "Get yourself another coffee maker." What we need is urgent measures that provide people with resources. [[Applause]] This is a good formula, we say it from the very first moment, because it actually allows you without any kind of stigma that you can acquire first-necessary goods, we talk about food, we talk about personal hygiene products and pharmaceutical products and it looks like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u153	...that should be kept in time beyond June 2022. Because putting that expiry date on it today makes many people unable to access the renewal of this resource. We're going to vote tomorrow, they have time to contrast it with the Council and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u155	...and I insist that it is necessary, it is urgent and, above all, it is fair and it is right. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Ms. Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to assume the services of its competence, currently provided by the local authorities, concerning professional conservatories of music
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u157	No amendments were tabled. And to formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u158	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. We were now talking about what priority should be given to public funds, with which criteria, the funds of all the Greeks and the Greeks on the part of the Galician Union. And we bring today a debate that is nothing new in this Parliament, we bring once again a historical demand, fair, well, because it is of full current, with a series of ingredients besides rocambolisms that make us have to put this historic demand - we say - neglected by the Education Council again on the table. We're talking about the situation of professional conservatories that are scattered in so many Greek municipalities. We support an initiative, ultimately, which, in addition, seeks to respond to a request, to a joint resolution within the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself; and which tries to correct, we say that historic aggravating that students and students are suffering from in these professional conservatories, as well as teachers and teachers who have to be managed without their direct competence by the municipal archives, often overwhelmed by having to meet this competence that does not meet the Education Council. Finally, we are talking about ending with an aggravation at different levels that these students, these students, these teachers, and that they support, as we said, the local authorities themselves hard. Even though I was saying, this debate is not new, it has a series of ingredients that make it rocky and illustrate, from our point of view, the arbitrariness with which the Education Council and the Greek Government act in terms of their priorities. Because, as soon as he has no interest in meeting this fair and historical demand, the Council of the Union has just authorized an agreement, an agreement, through the Galician Tourism Agency, the Education Council, the Environment Council, with the Begonte Council to invest more than a million euros to transform and adapt the music school that will manage the Cresanto Music Association, which we will then also say who is behind this association. And they might say if we're against it being dynamic, that we're betting on this kind of teaching, if we have something against this investment in the Town Hall of Begonte, in the parish of Bahamunda, but we have to remember at what price this agreement comes that illustrates, as we say, arbitrariness and even, if I may, caciquism in treating investments and meeting the municipalities according to its political colour by the Government of the Council of Galicia. This agreement of the Begonte Town Hall, governed by the People's Party, comes after closing - why will it be? - in these facilities the public school in Bahamonde, where 30 students were studying; that is, they arrive after closing a public school in rural, so much that we are filled with mouths to bet on rural. So it was defended and driven by the People's Party's own mayor, who did not at any time want to hear neither the Council of Education nor the Council of Galicia the alternatives that were put at all times on the table to try that, at least, as a desperate solution they would live together both activities and realities, even the mountain communities, and the Montes Community was willing to give in to land so that it would not have to take away any of the buildings that were in use for the students and the students of Bahamas. They have in the PP, and that's what our education spokesman said, today the voice of the parliamentary group in this plenary session, they have in the People's Party the only mayor from all over Spain who has defended and worked everywhere for a public school to be closed in their county. Instead of what is expected from a mayor elected by the neighbors and neighbors to defend public services, he has worked to reduce them. The PSdeG supported at that time from the beginning by asking in this Parliament, even the Education Counsellor, for the plans behind it, which hid that decision to close the public school in Begonte, in the parish of Bahamunda, and the answers, the explanations, of course, shone by their absence, because we are in the face of an absolutely unjustifiable decision. Now we understand, if you confirm that because through this agreement of more than a million euros to transform this music school into that loss of public services. In particular, here in Bahamonde, we said, with such pilgrim arguments as the Way of Santiago passes there. They didn't hear the people express themselves, the neighbors and neighbors; they didn't hear or attend the more than 3,000 firms against the closure of the public school. They didn't listen and even delayed the presentation of everything they could report, and they rebounded, from those who asked the People's Valedora at that time. And, therefore, they put an end to the center located in that city hall, which was, by the way, about to celebrate the half century of life; for them to boast, as we said to bet on the countryside and to defend that they are not dismantling public teaching in these municipalities. Well, now if we go back to that agreement, to that investment, we say more than a million euros that, curiously, it comes to the management of the Crisanto Music Association, which is chaired, let us say that it is an exhilarating matter, the president of this association who will manage this important agreement with these important public resources, by the brother of a concelerator of the local Government of the Council who voted in favour of closing the public school in defense of this agreement. [[Applause]] Finally, speaking of ethics and arbitrariness, little more, I don't think it's necessary to add qualifications, we wait for explanations around this matter, although I think the debate will go through other defeats. So, in order to finish, because I think few explanations are needed, ingredients we have enough, we have the closure of a public school that had 30 students in a parish of the countryside in this municipality lighted up; we have heard the neighborhood; they do not take up the resolutions of the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to assume, as it is competent, the Board of Education management and, therefore, the funding of professional conservatories of music; and around this we could also talk about what it cost, for example, bid the works, which they just did a few days ago, of a higher conservatory, the first one that Galicia had, as it is that of Vigo, where they had to live so long as students even with quails by the penguins because they were raining inside. This is the disgruntling of the Education Council, these are the priorities - we insist - to close a public school to bet on a music school managed by a Cresanto Music Association, with a public investment of more than one million euros, when you have ignored this request, among others, from the Federation, as we said, Galaga de Municipales and Provinces. We therefore hope that the Council of Galicia and the Council of Education will comply with the request that we support — we say — in this historic demand of the remaining known by this Parliament that, ultimately, the Council of Education assumes what is its competence and ceases to drown the councils, especially when they are not of its political colour. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u160	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to start with the end to see if we're able to move the whole dimension of the subject, because, in fact, it affects the people of Baamonde, and ultimately it affects all the students in the conservatories of this country. So, in extreme terms, which we would say in literature classes, what is proposed in this non-law proposition is basically that the Board assumes the professional conservatories of music, which today this service is being rendered by the councils. And by the way, it's a demand that's nothing new, which already, as you said here, has come on several occasions to this Parliament, the BNG brought on several occasions, the last time on July 7 in Commission 4th but, indeed, as it moved here, I think on this occasion we have a differential fact, there's a sort of pink elephant. And we said this because until now the PP had kept a story so much the teimuda that it was reality, so much so that even its own mayors didn't believe these premises that they left, but the People's Party mantra was held on these two axes of absolute funambulist character. On the one hand, that the competence of these regulated studies of conservatories corresponded to the municipalities; and then to another of these false premises was that the municipalities because they freely chose to offer these studies. Then we'll sink into these two axes, because I think it's important, but it's true that here all this time that we've found a kind of Matrix account, if you allow me, but where Morpheus only gave two blue pills, until suddenly the red pill appears and, in this case, the red pill, as if moved, is that it progresses by the Junta de Galicia the intention of building a conservatory in Baamunda, it is done after closing the center of Baamunda, it is done after forcing the boys to have to travel nine kilometers, and it is made, basically, by the whim of a mayor. So, I think that after these circumstances, I believe that the People's Party should explain, Mr. Rodeiro, I have no doubt that it will do so in its intervention, because some considerations that I believe is important and that Baamundo's neighborhood deserves this answer, but that, above all, students from the music conservatories of this country also deserve the answer. Because, look at this saying that a spokesperson from the People's Party, which follows in this Parliament, when the BNG brought the Board to take over the Lalín conservatory. We did what the People's Party said: "The proposal that the Board assumes the management of the Professional Conservatory of Music is for the sole purpose of washing the mayor's face" And I, Mr. Rodeiro, am convinced that you will answer this question. So, is this Galician Union initiative solely for the purpose of washing the mayor of Baamonde's face or is that only when he asks for the Block? [[Applause]] July 7, 2021, Fourth Committee on Education and Culture, also a member of the Group of the People's Party said: "There is a public administration responsible for its decisions and it is not to be accepted that the Union has problems that are not within its competence." This was not a matter of your competition six months ago, and now is it, Mr. Rodeiro? What happened in Ponteareas, Carballo, Cangas, Lalin, Round it up to 27 municipal conservatories in this country was not of its competence, but what happens in Baamunda now yes. But, look at it, because we kept going. A council has all the freedom to do any service to citizens but assuming its own capacity and the costs of its operation. And here's where we have to go, because I think that here, both the neighborhood of Begonte, and I suspect that also the intervener of that municipality, will want to know what will be the criterion for managing the conservatory just announced by Mr Feijóo; and we say this because here the People's Party's own Member pointed out that an budget, he assumed that for the transfers to the budgets of the Galician Conservatory Board there was a share of EUR 900,000. We're going to make it clear that this figure was divided into more than 80 different concepts, which mixed conservatories with music schools, which talked about transfers to municipalities... so much so, we accept the most optimistic figure of the People's Party. But if we divide that figure of EUR 900,000 among the nearly 30 conservatories we have in the country, we're talking about just over EUR 32,000 for each conservatory. It's just that he can't even pay for a teacher's payroll from these conservatories. And, of course, what we find here is that, while there's EUR 900,000 for everyone, that's like the three Musketeers, there's EUR 1,050,000 for just one, for Baamunda's. So we understand that there is an anomaly here and that it deserves an explanation for the professionals and students in the music conservatories of this country. Because what demonstrates this reality is that the story of the People's Party was held up in premises that are absolutely false. And the first false premise was of a normative nature and the second has to do with the motivation -- because we were talking about the Matrix, we can talk about the dja vu -- and absolutely convinced that Mr. Rodeiro will come here to talk about Decree 23/2010, of the 30th of December, in which his article 2 makes a reference to which the councils can also assume, decree of the People's Party to, let's say, manage a reality that was present in the country. But if you read what that decree says, and if you go, in addition, then to point 4, it also says that private companies can take over the management of these conservatories. And does that mean that the competition and obligation to provide this service are private companies? So in a context where this demand is at the top of the table, I think the question we have to ask is who it is to ensure that young people and young Greeks have a regulated musical dedication to an official title; and here it is absolutely clear, because article 31 of the Statute leaves meridian clarity that it is an obligation of the Board. So, here's this first premise, which we get to the board -- and I'm sure Mr. Rodeiro will bring us -- but there's a second, which has to do with that motivation. Because the municipalities give, let's say, these studies leading to official titles in the conservatories because they have become a sort of mechanism or because the board system has no capacity to assume all the demand and therefore the municipalities overcome the obligation to guarantee this kind of study. And they do, the numbers are there: is that of the 34 conservatories we have in this country 27 are being managed by the municipalities. The weight that there are regulated studies in this country is in the back of the Town Councils. And there's a reality that's obvious, Mr. Roder. If tomorrow the Town Councils stop providing this service, the collapse system, Junta doesn't have the ability to take over all that student. And what is it you're causing? For problems in the professors, of work precariousness, lack of stability; problems in the conservatories, which are subject to curricular regime and inspection, but which later do not have the advantages they might have with management by the Board; and also, above all, problems for the student, who in a context of rising prices, who are suffering from families, in a context where reaching the end of the month becomes increasingly difficult, because it is necessary to assume some tuition costs for these conservatories that sometimes not only duplicate, not only triple, but also to quadriple the rates they would have for a conservative managed by whom they belong, which is the Board of Galicia. We have cases — and I think that in the case of Begonte we will also have to deal with it — of conservatories, the case of Ponteareas, which is a paradigmatic case that has also been on the candlelight in recent times, 19 music teachers, 15 specialties attended in addition to a student of very different municipalities: Cañiza, Arbo, As Neves, Covelo, this is generating a deficit in the municipality of almost half a million euros, and with Joine being profiled. So, I think it's absolutely insatiable that in a context where, according to the data they're bringing, more optimistic that's bringing the People's Party itself, the distribution, the effort that's making the Board doesn't get to EUR 900,000 of distribution for conservatories, the fact that it implements more than a million euros for a single conservatory, contradicting all its speech, I think it deserves an explanation. And it deserves an explanation not because this subject came here on several occasions and that the PP has an obvious contradiction with regard to the account he was bringing, but because what is behind this, as was said here, is no longer just a whim of a mayor who for 30 coins sold and betrayed his neighborhood, it's something that goes far beyond.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u162	The problem with all this is that it's done as an absolutely unstoppable nepotism practice that nothing good will bring to Begonte's neighborhood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u164	...no less to students from the professional conservatories of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u165	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Indeed, it is a subject that has been discussed on several occasions and, of course, that the Galician Union maintains in this matter the same position that you held when they ruled in the bipartite as to how to manage the music conservatories. They therefore know perfectly well that we speak of municipal conservatories, therefore, as their name well indicates, because they are of municipal competence. And the truth is that they have brought proposals, you have made proposals in recent initiatives to approve and unify rates, prices, teacher salaries, and even rates, as Mr. Lourenzo has just said, that in some cases they quadrupled prices. Well, this approval and this unification, being of a municipal nature, is for the municipalities within the framework of municipal competition and, in any case, they can also ask for the collaboration of the Fegamp if the municipalities themselves have difficulties in coordinating themselves. But once again you bring here a subject to resign from the responsibility of the municipalities, and as a proposal you bring a proposal to resign from that responsibility following your current Sanchista model, because you follow the policy of ostrich, hide and pass the problems of others, in this case, to the Council of Galicia, as Mr. Sánchez does by packing his own to the European Union. Look, the Socialist Party today presents a repetitive initiative, and also with a big contribution, which is that of the speech office without looking for any responsibility of what everyone here has. And this is perfectly known by what the position of the Board is, because it has already been answered on multiple occasions. And indeed, it is the same thing that you have maintained, with a difference or, better said, with two major differences: today the funding from the Galician Union to the municipal conservatories is twice as much as when you ruled; but besides being twice as much, this funding is guaranteed through an agreement with the Fegamp, which is delivered monthly to the municipalities, through the Local Cooperation Fund. And it's a very important improvement, because it no longer depends on an ordinary order of aid, which was to be convened every year, and which the municipalities had to apply for grant at each call. So this favours better planning on behalf of the municipalities. And the truth is, you are also presenting seven initiatives by the Socialist Party to continue attacking projects from the municipalities that are not of their political colour, and this is very obvious. You insist on continuing to criticise an initiative by the Begonte Council, using a good part of the explanatory statement by this PNL, using a part to criticise an initiative by a council. And, look, the truth is, there were two exactly the same cases in Galicia in the past course, two exactly the same ones as two rural municipalities, two kindergartens, two kindergartens and the primary of the Greek countryside. Obviously, one governed by a nationalist mayor and another ruled by a popular mayor. If the grouping is done by a popular mayor, he's called a nationalist mayor, what do you call him, Mr. Lourenzo? what do you call him? What do you call him? Therefore, the Town Hall of Begonte proposes to effectively group, as mentioned here, the CEIP of Baamonde in the CEIP Virgin of the Corps; and the Mazarics Town Hall facilitates grouping the students of CEIP Pino de Val, integrating it into the CPI of the Picota. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you call it? And so far, the truth is that everything is the same, but the only difference is that the mayor of the People's Party of Begonte submitted this subject to a plenary session, and submitted it to the debate in the body of representation of municipal democracy, and with the objective of giving it greater transparency, while the nationalist mayor requested and facilitated it by the Council itself. So I believe that the opposition in this House to two similar situations makes radically different approaches depending on who governs. For the Galician Nationalist Block, this case didn't exist, and it talks about whims, Mr. Lourenzo. For the Socialist Party, he knew it, but he has to be quiet because they can't talk about his government partners. Look, the opposition is practicing in this case an attitude of harassment and I bring down a mayor of the PP, and we must also remember the visit of the previous spokesman of the Socialist Party and even the current spokesman of the Socialist Party. Well, they could make this visit to Mazaricos and practice all that scandal so scared that it happened. So, look, I think politics requires something more serious, and you come here saying that we cover an unfortunate decision, but these are the two realities, and therefore because a mayor wants to use that school where he was integrated into another center in developing a cultural and musical activity because this group doesn't seem to be bad at all. Another thing you're asking is what's meant for you in the county where you're going to rule this other school, Mr. Lourenzo. Ask him what a surprise he might have. So, look, this autonomous community has, as it has been said here, not with 34 conservatories but with 35 and 9 are dependent on the Galician Union and the other 26, which, not 27, are owned by their respective municipalities, as if you were answered in a parliamentary question that then they always say that they are not informed and, when they are given information, because they do not use it. And, of course, under the current legislation, the municipalities have recognized their competence, and so on, to create and manage their municipal conservatories of music and music schools, before, of course, authorization from the Council of Galicia so that they can impart these teachings. Therefore, under the current regulation each public administration is responsible for its actions in relation to public prices and the organization of its human resources. Mr. Lourenzo, I insist, and I insist that it be established under the regulatory hierarchy, since the Constitution, which recognizes the autonomy of municipalities, up to the specific regulations, the municipalities have competence to create, as I said, and manage the conservatories of music. Therefore, municipal conservatories are the competence of the municipalities, and it must be pointed out, in addition, that these are non-compulsory teachings which the municipalities decide to offer on their own initiative. It is clear, therefore, that this is not a basic service, but it was created at the municipal level, so they are responsible for their maintenance and from the autonomous administration they are authorized. The Parliamentary Group and the Council respect the initiative of the councils, which, from their competence, want and can offer their neighbours musical teachings. And, in any case, the Galician Union has been financing the conservatories for years through, as we said, the Local Cooperation Fund. In 2018 there was an agreement with Fegamp to increase the Local Cooperation Fund since the 2019 budget, and in this framework new approaches were introduced for the financing of municipal conservatories. Therefore, through the Local Cooperation Fund a new way of collaboration is being implemented, which was currently EUR 500,000 in 2019, EUR million in 2020 and EUR 900,000 in 2021, and EUR 900,000 in 2022. So I would like to appeal to that agreement that there was, that agreement reached with a socialist president of the Fegamp, with Alfredo García, and in addition this agreement is still in force with another socialist president of the Fegamp. I don't know if what you're proposing is to break this agreement signed by a socialist president. With this really initiative, what is the Socialist Party's proposal?, do the municipalities eliminate this competition? Do you want to restrict the capacities of the municipalities, of the local administration, and to pass all conservatories belonging to the Galician Union even if not all the municipalities want it? The truth is we don't want to think that it would happen if the Union took the Motu initiative of taking these conservatory initiatives to the Town Councils. I'm sure there would be councils of the BNG and the Socialist Party that rebelled. I don't know if you want to, at the same time, the municipalities continue to maintain these powers of creating and managing the conservatories once they have passed to Galician Union or just create them because then they'll manage the Union. Is this the Socialist Party's proposal, shared by the Galician Nationalist Block? From that point on, if we keep the competition for the municipalities to create it and pass it on to the board to manage it, it's obviously a great exercise of planning and responsibility. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these proposals often come to this House when there are cases of municipal conservatories that are not managed properly; because, if they did so properly, they would be sure that they would not ask the Board to assume them, especially because of the value they have for the councils. So if you want to pass them to the Galician Union, I'm convinced that it's because they're stuck with management, as we're debating here in this House, where in Commission 4th of June, the Socialist Party blamed the BNG for the problems of the Monforte Conservatory Labour Conflict having the origin of an RPT approved by a mayor of the BNG. So if you two fight each other, then they want to transfer all responsibility to the Galician Council. So, look, let's go back to the game of always, resigning the responsibilities each one has to then transfer them to others. So, I believe that the current common model of conservatory management, because, obviously, it includes those managed by public administrations, by the board, by the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u168	...—now, Mr President—and those also managed by the social initiative. And, really, Mrs. Otero Lago, I think she was saying everything she said here about the Cresanto Music Association, which has been working and taking on music for many years, and I also want to tell you that she also has an appointment with the Lugo Deputy, so I guess it will be because she's doing well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u169	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u170	So, Mr President, nothing more than to put into focus the initiative of both the Galician Union and the councils that are developing this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u171	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u172	Well, Mr. Rodeiro, what did I say about the Cresanto Music Association? I ask, there will be the Session Diary. The only thing I said as a question to put into effect is that I called attention that will manage this important investment and the management of this educational, artistic, musical resource of Begonte Town Hall in the same place where a public school is closed, which is chaired by a brother of a conceler who is part of the same local government that pushes and defends the closure of the public school, so that then one invests in that place a million-dollar reform important to manage this resource. [[Applause]] That's what we said about the association, and it didn't question its activity and its importance. And I had already said that it would be complicated in his day it was already quite complicated for the counselor to answer the questions he posed and that it came to this plenary our spokesman, Mr. Luís Álvarez, already said, it was already advancing in my intervention that would be complicated, and we advanced the difficulties to justify certain actions to this account of the facts and the realities of what has happened in this council. I was only looking forward to the great successes, because you had the opportunity to speak of the bipartisan, of the powers of the municipalities, of Sanchism and even of the European Union. We didn't expect any less then seeing the appearance in this crisis context of the President of Junta Feijóo, probably I don't know if the last or his last appearances or even less after 13 years than in this Parliament that employs him in a crisis context where he is asked to talk about his own competences in this framework, in addition to we are celebrating the anniversary of the Statute of German Autonomy, that he flees from public competences and is back to the great successes of the bipartite, of his guilt has the Town Councils. In short, it's not surprising. You know perfectly well, as I said, that you have had debate in this Parliament on several occasions about the situation of these conservatories, 27 in the various municipalities which, as you know, are taking on powers that are not their own, and you named here what happens in the case of Ponteareas. It has also been debated about what happens in a large conservatory like the one in Lalin, which serves students and students not only of this council but, as you know, of the whole environment. And I ask, I insist, what is the differential fact that they don't pay attention to public resources as deserved by the students and students of these 27 professional conservatories of the Greek municipalities who have to hold back from being their powers the municipalities and make this agreement and are going to invest in a new conservatory a million euros, in a council governed by the People's Party and at the cost of closing a public school. Tell me what the differential thing is. [[Applause]] And in order to finish, I would say before, that the dispassionation of the Education Council around the conservatories would also give us for a debate not only fulfilling this historical and fair demand that he said to deal with and assume management and not drowning the councils of professional conservatories of music. And I was setting the example of what has happened in recent years with what was Galicia's first superior music conservatory, which is Vigo's, which is a case that we all know and more of Vigo's. How many manifestations of students, teachers, even in recent years, who have been teaching in cadres through water, have been with absolutely unused instruments. Now they just bid, after so much noise, for so long, the works, now if they take walks, the Delegate of the Board and the Conservatory, to fix those deficiencies, will invest, so much, practically the same money as in signing this agreement with the Council of Begonte and this association of the concelerator of the group that governs the Council of Begonte. You tell me that this is not arbitrary, that this is not cacical politics, according to the councils and the political colors, why the Vigo Higher Conservatory of Music had to wait for so long by teaching with humiditys, with infrastructures that were not even soundproofed and in the midst of the rain crowding up students and students, tell me that this was also a municipal competition, taking care and rehabilitation so much demand from the Vigo Superior Conservatory. Finally, it is a shame, and you asked what the socialist municipal group is asking for, has the initiative there, but, if you wish, I repeat it to finish: it is to comply with the resolution adopted by the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in 2019 so that the Galician Council of Education will take over its competences and free the municipalities from having to assume with their funds the management of these professional conservatories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u174	...of music. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Central Government for regulation by law of the right to access of the population to energy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u176	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendmentThe point 1 of the resolution of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:"1. To request from the Central Government that the extraordinary measures applicable to situations of economic and social vulnerability collected in Royal Decree-Law 8/2021 of 4 May, so that urgent measures are taken in the health, social and judicial order, to be applied after the end of the validity of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, so that the state of alarm is declared to contain the spread of infections caused by SARS-CoV-2, which prevents supply cuts to the beneficiaries of the social bond, regulates without a date of completion and extends to basic supplies of water and gas."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As we speak throughout today, Galicia is currently suffering the greatest price rise in the last 30 years, and, of course, we must insist on a question, which is that as fast as prices are rising in different areas, it is also increasing at the same rate or faster the impoverishment of society. And that requires a government that is acting in the face of the problems your country has. On the contrary, we have already seen today, especially in Mr Feijóo's appearance, that we have a Government which is basically focused on propaganda and solving the problems of the People's Party itself, seeking the survival of its acronyms instead of being focused on seeking the survival of the worst people in this country. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, the situation is unbearable. It's unbearable in all directions, but there's one in which it's especially unbearable, the energy, and that's precisely why, without access to energy, no one can live properly. And in this situation, what are the governments doing? For, on the one hand, who would have the most immediate ability to act, the central government, we see that it is absolutely nocturnal, which basically devotes itself to each two by three to give a different headline looking for confusion and trying to give an unreal feeling that it is doing something, when actually what it is doing is dilating in time to take any measure; to show a button: even today gathered with the electric lobby itself to tell us that everyone quiet, that here the benefits of the big electricians will not be touched. And the People's Party, basically more of it. With their political decisions already over the years it has made us live in the nonsense that, despite being a country rich in energy production, we have more and more people with problems to pay their bills, but it does not exercise their own competences, that self-government that proclaims so much on other occasions to mitigate that situation; it prefers to be quiet, waiting, seeking guilty, which is what is best given to the People's Party. But, of course, in the Galician Nationalist Block, we are convinced that the situation is not to be stopped. And so, in the face of inaction and lack of conviction, today we bring concrete proposals. In the morning, the Parliamentary Spokesman of the People's Group asked us to make a specific proposal that the electricity system would not be nationalized, because it's very convenient for the People's Party to stay in caricature, as if we just brought here the most strategic proposals, which of course we do not give up on them, if the system were controlled from the public we wouldn't be in such a worrying situation, of course. But, in any case, we brought here very concrete and very tangible proposals immediately, as it was said this morning, that the coup d'dog would be possible. There's a moment ago they told us that not to one, we'll see what they're doing with the proposals we're making today for something as elementary as ensuring access to the energy of people who are less likely to have, and for that we propose a very concrete thing, which is triple the budget intended for direct help to the most vulnerable consumers. Because, of course, I insist: if a fired inflation is a first-order economic-social problem, of course, the most serious energy issue is the situation. First of all, we have to talk briefly about this, too, because there's a structural problem at the heart, which is that energy in this country is not a public good. The energy in this country has been converted into a private speculation asset of the electric lobbies, into an energy model that is completely corrupted into which more electrics are sent than governments, a model that is a scam in itself, as it shows us to pay the electricity according to the price that marks the most expensive technology. In addition to this, there are specific issues in the current context that make the situation worse, but it is of course necessary today to insist, secondly, that the price rise in electricity has a dominant effect on the rest of the prices and the rest of the economy. That's why we insist that prices should also be intervened, because we must remember that in 2021 we beat all energy price records, exceeding the annual average of the 119 euros. But it's about 2022 -- I insist, about 2022 -- the 2021 record has already doubled; that is, the situation is getting worse and much worse. And this has an impact on everything, even on the most basic issues, such as food. So we insist, thirdly, that the rise in energy prices and the difficulty in accessing people to such a basic good as energy is because it is particularly serious from a social point of view. It's especially serious because what it does is precisely to dramatically aggravate social inequality, because that's what we call energy poverty, it's not a minority thing. Today, paying a bill of light is a problem for most of Galician society — I repeat — is a problem for most of Galician society; it doesn't happen to a minority, and, even if it was for a minority, it would be a first-order problem, but most Greeks and Greeks today have a problem paying for the bill of light. This is something that we perceive every day talking to our neighbors in the bar, anywhere, but the data is there too. I insist, the Galician Network against Poverty had already said in its last report that more than 700.00 people in our country, more than a quarter of the Greeks and Greeks were at risk of social exclusion in 2020; and that, in addition, people with disabilities, in severe material deprivation, and that more than 9% of households could not have their homes — it was worth redundancy — at an adequate temperature. This is the situation yesterday, last year and peak, when the total impact of the pandemic is not yet reflected. Let's imagine what the situation of the Greeks and the Greeks is like today, that there is this total impact of the pandemic crisis and that there is the impact of this price rise. Of course it's the perfect storm for a drastic increase in poverty, that's undeniable. This situation is undeniable. And in this situation, one question has to be asked, which is basically: what do we do to mitigate this problem and so people can access something as basic as energy to have a decent life? And of course, we understand that governments are not in touch with circumstances, and of course, the picture if it's not encouraging about the central government, which dilates until the next 30th day to take some action, we think that any measure that is taken will not be reflected in the bill until the month of May, that's very serious, means that there will be a lot of people with the bill in February, March and April in an extreme situation. But the fact is that the Galician Union, beyond using this Parliament as an electoral platform, is not putting solutions on the table either. In fact, what he does is basically propaganda, and of course I'm going to dedicate my last part of the intervention to explaining the propaganda of the Union and what is the proposal of the BNG, which I imagine they know because I suspect they have inspired themselves a little bit for literature, not for concretion, of what they agreed at the last Council of the Union. Let's see. To this day, the Union basically had a resource or used a resource to complement the social protection of the sphere of the State in energy matters. So there's an electric social bond in the state, and the board added some help to prevent cuts. So far, great, a model with many weaknesses because it arrived in 2021, according to the data from the Union itself, to five thousand and I peak people, when there are more than 44,000 homes with severe material deprivation according to the Galego Institute of Statistics itself. So it reaches less than 12% of the public, let's say, more needed. So those aids that the Greek Government again took out this year for 1.9 million euros were there. And then there's another question, which is the state's thermal social bond, which transferred in December 13 million euros to the autonomous community to manage a reinforcement of that electric social bond. And all of a sudden we saw that great proposal from the German Government of the past Board of Directors, that Mr. Feijóo, who forgot the calculator, this morning he told us that they would triple the aid, triple the count of 13 million euros, is not just adding 6 million euros. In any case, since the German Government finally rectified and pushed something of its self-government to increase social assistance, we would welcome it, but the question is that it is absolutely insufficient, then we invite them to take the entire proposal that makes the Nationalist Block Galicia and to triple the existing aid. In other words, additional aid to avoid cuts should be increased from EUR 1.9 million to EUR 6 million, and aid to strengthen the State's thermal social bond, which is indeed absolutely insufficient, because it should increase by EUR 26 million more. [[Applause]] Because what is true is that there is not even a very, very small part of the people who need help; and I put back the example of the aid to the courts, it arrived at 5,278 families in 2021 and it doesn't even cover the 7,200 who perceived Risk, also according to the data from the Board itself, in the 21st or more 16,000 homes that received the minimum vital income. So we propose to exercise that self-government to make social mattress, increasing the number of preceptors and preceptors and increasing the counts. And, of course, without giving up the basic demands on the State, such as, for example, the permanent ban on the cutting of basic supplies, such as energy, gas or light. So this is the question, Galicia has the ability to do, to do more, and, of course, we defend in this country is that the Greek Government will comply and that it will help make Galicia worth at a time when there are more and more people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u179	...in this country that can't have the most elemental, which is to have access to energy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The fight against poverty and social exclusion in Galicia has never been a priority for the various governments headed by Nuñez Feijóo on the board of Galicia. A limited situation for many people and homes who had not yet recovered from the 2008 crisis and a situation that was aggravated by the economic and social consequences of the pandemic caused by the cowardly 19th. According to data from the latest report published by the European Network of Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion on the state of poverty in Galicia in 2020, we were told that by 2020 we had nearly 696,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion; that is, 25.7% of the total population in Galicia, almost 26% of our population in 2020 was at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Plus, 1.4 points more than in 2019. The current situation of escalation in energy prices is an element that further exacerbates the economic situation of households, but especially those more vulnerable than in 2020, according to the same report, reveals to us that there were 598,000 people in our country on the threshold of poverty. That is, 22.1 percent of the population in Greece; 2.1 points more than in 2019 and 1.1 points more than for the state set. Therefore, the situation of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia was already alarming before the pandemic, but Covid, the lack of social policies, the lack of housing access policies, aggravated poverty and severe material deprivation in Greek homes. In 2020 we arrived at 44,442 homes in Galicia in severe lack of material, according to the data published by the IGE, and that in addition there are 4,330 homes more than there were in 2019. And you know perfectly well that this situation of severe material deficiency occurs when you have a lack of at least 4 out of 9 variables that are studied, and among them you find that you cannot afford housing with an adequate temperature. The same report by the European Network for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion literally states that the residential emergency in the face of Galicia's failure of decent and accessible housing is in fact preventing the success of social inclusion and measures against poverty. So having a home in Galicia is not a guarantee of a decent life; just like having a job in Galicia, it's not a guarantee to get out of poverty. Access to employment should be the fundamental tool for getting out of poverty, but the survey of living conditions developed by INE reflects that people have access to employment in a very limited way in the years of economic recovery prior to confinement and that those who have found employment were of low quality and in conditions of working precariousness. I remind you, surely you all know that well, but I remind you that, thanks to the employment policies of Mr. Rajoy's People's Party in the state, the poor working class was born. On the other hand, while employment policies adopted in the State with Pedro Sánchez suggested that in 2021 jobs were created in Spain in one year, exceeding pre-pandamia occupation, with an increase of 4.35 per cent, the highest level of employment since the 2008 crisis, while data for Galicia in our community are the worst in all autonomous communities, with only 0.96 per cent growing, with the third worst evolution of all autonomous communities, including autonomous cities. And that, in addition, in the fourth quarter of 2021, we still have 50,900 homes in Galicia with all its members unemployed or 28,000 homes without income. This data, therefore, shows the failure of the People's Party's Galician Union's economic, social and employment policies during the 13 years of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, which, having exclusive competence in social services, competes in active employment policies, competition in industry, instead of helping to reduce inequalities, if it has increased the gap initially existing, in some cases becoming considered naturalized situations and, therefore, they are no longer weak to fight the facts to accept. In addition, with an increase of more than EUR 1,500 million in the budget of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to 2021, up to EUR 13,396 million, thanks to the funds from the state and the European Union, I did not assume that the Government of Greece had taken the necessary measures to reverse this situation. And in this year 2022, with the budgets of the Galician Union, which re-acquire historical credits of 13,118 million euros, once again thanks to the funds coming from the state and the European Union, many of the finalists for housing policies, employment policies and aid to the most vulnerable people or to equality, among others, we hope that this year the Galician Union will implement all these budgets to reverse this more worrying situation of the Greek homes. This morning Mr. Puy told us that they were leaving the people's needs. Well, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tell the Galician board to apply the story, to start with people's needs and to ask themselves, as President Feijóo said, today morning too, if the work they do is useful for citizenship. Well, look, you're counting on people's needs, the skills that the state of autonomy and the highest budgets in history, so they meet the needs of our citizenship, and they're useful to the people who need it most. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Look, access to electricity is a basic necessity and, in the face of the escalation of electricity prices, the Government of the State has taken, together with the European leadership, various measures. The reduction of VAT to 10%, the suspension of the electricity production tax or other tax and charges on the electricity bill, such as the special electricity tax, which lowers it to the minimum that can be reduced by 0.5%, or the reduction of 80% of the fees of the electrointensive industry. You know that Royal Decree 897/2017 regulates the figure of the vulnerable consumer, the social bond and other protective measures for consumers at risk of social exclusion and application of the social bonus. Well, this royal decree was amended by Royal Decree 821 and subsequently by Royal Decree 23/2021 of urgent energy measures for consumer protection. The adoption of these royal decrees assumed that, in the event of the escalation of the electricity bill, the Government of the State shall act and meet the needs of the most vulnerable families, ensuring the supply of water, electricity and natural gas to vulnerable, vulnerable consumers or at risk of social exclusion until 30 June 2022. By regulating the right to the perception of the social bond by certain groups who are considered vulnerable consumers by covid, such as they are in a state of unemployment, affected by a temporary employment regulation file, or in the event of being an entrepreneur who has reduced his or her daily life because of care or other similar circumstances that involve a substantial loss of income. The content of the social electricity bond has also increased; that is, the discount on the electricity bill, going from 25 to 60% off the discount for vulnerable consumers; going from 40 to 70% on severe vulnerable consumers; and, in the cases of consumers at risk of social exclusion, understanding that in this situation people who are being cared for by social services either from an autonomous administration or from the location that pay at least 50% of the invoice, will not have to deal with the electric bill; and, in the case of temporary impossibility to deal with the payment, the electrical supply cannot be interrupted. It is true that, moreover, there are other types of benefits, such as greater clarification of invoices; that beneficiaries of the social bond that contain a longer period to deal with unpaid bills; or that the supply cannot be interrupted in case of non-payment to households in which there is at least one under 16 years in the family unit or whether the consumer or one of the members of their family unit is a person with a disability equal to or greater than 30% or with a degree of dependence 2 or 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u183	Well, I'm done now, Mr. President. The Socialists are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, among other things because we have put forward similar initiatives. We understand that the measures adopted by the State Government are fine, but that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u185	... lately and in the face of price escalation, they're insufficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u187	So we're going to vote in favour. We tabled an amendment clarifying point number one, and we hope that it will be attended and accepted by the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u189	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u190	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor of Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u191	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, go paper, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Look, I define it, emergency definition: an unpredictable matter or situation that requires special attention and should be resolved as soon as possible. Look, the paperboard, a month, a month since the war started... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u192	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u193	...and you zero measures, either in the energy field or in the fuel field, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo! [[Applause]] Look, Mrs Presas, we share with you the sensitivity and concern for the people who need it the most, we agree, which is inconceivable the price of light that are paying not only the families, but the self-employed, small businesses, large companies, who employ many workers and come from afar; it comes from mid-2021, in which it approved this fateful new system of tariffs that caused the greatest increase in the price of light, for which about 80 euros the mega-hour, today — as you have said — 300 euros mega-hour, with peaks up to 700 euros. That's insumable, the price of fuels at almost 2 euros the liter of gasoline that causes them to almost be a luxury item. All of this causes the IPC to be as historic as possible and to be expected to continue to rise. A lace scenario that causes, it seems, that the central government is absent, can't say another word, we say absent or anesthetic. And, Mrs. Presas, you're wrong again to identify the person in charge, once again accuse the Government of the United States of counterfeiting reality. This morning the president of the board was here, showing and explaining all the measures in this matter, just in this matter, on the subject of energy poverty, increasing the electric social bond and the thermal social bond. But you, as always, misidentify the person responsible. And you who are so much about creating slogans and have the last one ready for the next demonstration on April 3, they talk about making themselves worth it. I think the Galician Nationalist Block could be used, or not? You co-govern with the PSOE in municipalities and deputies in Galicia, in addition to supporting them in state investment. Hey! I think that after I didn't approve any of those measures signed by Adriana and Ana, I think you could fulfill your motto by making use of and breaking all governments in the councils and deputies. That is to be done until your measures are approved, of course, we agree. [[Applause]] But, look, you bring here a number of measures, but you hide your own measures, which are: the Welsh tariff — ruinous for the Greeks — and the public energy companies, which are based on nationalizing or using energy, I don't know which, because wind isn't worth, it's not worth any, the hydraulics either, I don't know what energy that public energy company would create. But, look, I'm going to join the initiative as well, I'm going to give you good reasons why we're going to vote that, Madam Presas, for your initiative. Look, at the first point, they talk about permanent regulation of the stopping of the cuts of light. There you are, they said here, it's regulated by law, of course it's regulated by law, Your Honor! And, in Galicia, we were pioneers, and it was added to a law, which was approved on a pioneering basis here in 2017, to guarantee electricity, which you and I voted for... you and I were rapporteurs of that law, and you voted for and all your group that you didn't. And Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, who was then in this Parliament, voted not to, complimenting the social bond by 50%. That's only done in Galicia. And the only families at risk of social vulnerability that can't be cut off, because 50% of them pay the Government of Unity, is here in Galicia. We're the only community, the only one. And that's what they put in their amendment is already being done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] And we've been pioneers since 2014 with the social electric ticket. And from 2014 to 2021, family support amounts to 6.35 million euros, with more than 27,000 families benefiting. Look, since this year 2022, they've been open since last January 13th, 1.9 million euros. It's a county that's going to be extended and all the requests are met. You, Mrs. Presas, speak here that only a number of applications are dealt with, not all of them. All of them, if we have to expand the budget, it's expanding. Yes, ladies. And the biggest one will also manage the thermal social bond for all the Greek families that last year 2021 made an investment of 13.1 million euros. Look, when you also asked here to extend to people potentially benefiting from Galicia's electric and thermal social bond -- I insist -- it's already moved forward, in Galicia it's already done. And today and in the past Council of the Union President Feijóo has already announced the supplementation of the thermal social bond in 100 euros. Yes, Your Honor, it is done; therefore, more than done. To encourage measures to socialize these resources, I insist, honourable Member, on the electric bond until all applications are completed, all those that meet the requirements, of course. In 2021 it went from 1.3 million euros that was budgeted to 2.1 million euros. That's the reality. All applications are therefore postponed and it is an agile and transparent processing, and it has all the collaboration and assistance of social entities, such as the Red Cross or the Caritas. As for what you say about doing a study -- we're already studying the Galego Nationalist Block -- we're never worth it -- let's see, you're talking about INE here, but no, and then you're asking for another study, we're always studying. There are already studies, and you... what happens is that you name them here as you name them. You were talking about a percentage of homes that can't afford to keep housing at a proper temperature, 9.8% in Galicia compared to 11.1% in a national average. Yes, Your Honor, I... it's funny because you use the data as it seems. I can teach you the statistics and, look, if we get the data from 2006, do you know how many these homes were in Galicia? Who governed in 2006? Ui!, the bipartite. For in Galicia then the homes that could not meet their energy demands were 16.5% and in Spain 10.2%. Ah!, and ruled the Nationalist Block Galego. How can that be, Mrs. Presas? Yeah, yeah, yeah! I don't know. [[Applause]] Well, use the data as you like. Look, I insist. When you speak at your last point of committing a budgetary reservation — I insist — you explained it to him well, you gave details this morning the president of the board here, with a shock plan that was approved in the past Council of the Union and that will be extended. And he explained it, I'll remind him because it seems to be unclear to them. These measures, I don't know what they're worth, because these measures go on that line, Your Honor. Like you say not to everything, even if they're okay, they say no. Look, speed up the launch of the thermal social bonus to help households cope with heating, hot water and cooking costs that have intensified in recent months. This is an investment of 13.1 million euros that will reach more than 64,400 vulnerable homes and will be made through direct income from the beneficiary families' accounts, which are the same as those that already have discounts in their bill of light thanks to the electric social bonus. An extraordinary supplement of EUR 100 was also approved to strengthen the contents of the thermal social bond. And it will be possible by enabling additional funds of €6.6 million to raise total investment in this measure to €19.7 million. I believe that in this line and in its competences, which are the competences that the Galician Union has, the Government of Galician Union has acted. What government didn't act? The central government, Mrs. Presas. That's what I had to be here today claiming. You know that the measures to lower the electricity bill are going through measures that the state government has to implement, and they are going through the electrical system — yes, the bill —. Of course I do. You'll have to lower taxes or you'll have to take out certain costs that are on the energy bill, that don't paint anything, by the way, other governments that you've also supported in the past... yes, yes, the tariff deficit of renewables premiums. Yes, from this government of Mr. Zapatero who also supported that time. So you could get that out; you could unlink the PVPC as already requested from here from the wholesale market, that's another one of the measures that could be done. And whose responsibility is it? It's central government's responsibility. Those are the measures that would undermine the electric bill, as you say, of all consumers who are experiencing it quite frankly today, not only are they suffering from the vulnerable people who... it's just that they don't complement them... look, ladies and gentlemen, the social bond doesn't complement the rise of the electric bill, that's the reality. That's the reality, so from here on you'll help more. What can't be done, Mrs. Presas, is that the daily energy prices are 200, 300, and you're the only one who pulls it out when it's to accuse the Galician Union. Yes, Your Honor, that's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, the government has to sit down and talk... the other day there was a sectoral conference with the autonomous communities and zero measures. Listen, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you who defend dialogue so much and take care of your proposals. It's just the government's bid the other day. Listen, it can't be that we call all economic and industrial advisors at a sectoral conference to talk about the energy issue and no proposal is made. When did they announce? Do not wait. In a rally with those of the Socialist Party, that's the reality. Look, Mrs. Presas, I think I have fulfilled explanations of what is being done here, within the scope of the powers of the Galician Union has acted, acted quickly, anticipating any other community and, of course, the central government. I think we've been pioneering on social bond complementing measures for many years, and that's the reality. Now, the next step and which should have been doing the Central Government for many months now, not since the invasion of Ukraine by Russia began. No, no, it's just that the price of light has been rising unexpectedly since the middle of last year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u195	... and nothing was done. Therefore, I think that I should well identify those responsible, Mrs. Presas, once again, not be mistaken, and I'm sure all the citizens of Greece will understand. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u196	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, I'm almost excited at the first part of her speech, because I see that every time in the criticism of the state electric model, the Galician People's Party is getting closer to the BNG; I thought it was still in that line of rectification now that I'm also asking for the super-reduced IVE of energy after systematically voting against it, but then I've seen that it was going back and I've got some bad news for you. I don't know if you have any more trouble with the posters or concrete proposals, but since the Galician Nationalist Block, we're going to continue with the two of them, going out to the street when it's needed and bringing concrete proposals full after full, after full. Because that's what the Galicians and the Greeks need at a time when most of this country's neck is drowned by the socio-economic situation and you have the ability to act and you don't want to do it. [[Applause]] And, look, we're not wrong to blame. There is responsibility on some issues on the part of the Central Government, but there is a great irresponsibility of the Galician Union for having the ability to act on specific issues and not want to do them. And, look, we won't let them, because of course there are proposals, and some of them also go on the initiative, for the scope of the state, but there's a lot that I could do for the Union and you don't want to do. And, look, when we bring more proposals from a strategic point of view or that have more to do with the electric model and, therefore, with the state competences, you vote against; when we bring proposals that have to do with your direct competences, they also vote against because they don't want to do anything. And, of course, it won't distract me from the background, I'll explain why you're the ones who don't. Look, you lied in the morning, Feijóo, and now you've manipulated reality as well. First. What is required here to prohibit permanently and legally the cuts of basic water supplies, gas, electricity, unfortunately is something that only the state can do. Even the President of the Board himself this morning urged the Central Government to extend the extraordinary measures of the energy issue from the beginning of summer to the end of the year. We agree with that, we have already asked for it and, of course, we also ask that this should be extended and that the cut-off of supply, which is a basic, elementary and a right issue, should be settled permanently. Secondly, of course, you talk here about aid to supply cuts and you have to, like Mr Feijóo, give the figure since 2014; why if we go to the 2021 figure, what happens? We see that there are more than 44,000 homes that are not able to have the temperature of their home at adequate levels, the help of the board was 5,000; there are more than 7,000 people who receive the Risga resource and more than 13,000 who receive the Minimal Vital Income, which are economic circumstances that are not boisterous of economic aid, because there are only 5,000 supplements to that social electric bonus. That's the reality of Joining's help. And, in fact, what's already delicious is that last year you had to make two credit extensions until you actually reach the 2.1 million euros... and how much do you budget in the 2022 budgets? Is it a government that predicts and stricts that the economic situation is worsening and that there is therefore a need for more money? No, they also raise and budget 1.9 million euros. For what? To make propaganda soon when they have to do a credit expansion, as they did before with Risga, who know they're going to need more and put less in the budget and then come here to advertise the social needs of this country. [[Applause]] And, in any case, they didn't announce, they didn't approve in the past Council of the Union, nor did the President here today announce anything about aid to the courts. What do we ask? To triple the counties, to reach 6 million euros. Do you think you're over-investting more than EUR 11,000 million from the board budget, making a budgetary change so that 4 million are shielded to help the Greeks and Greeks who may be at risk of power cutting? Well, it doesn't seem to us that much to ask. And with regard to the thermal bond, it's also delicious. First, because they're manipulating: they're not tripleting the count; if they triple the count, you have to bet for extra 26 million euros. But in any case, the question is that these 13 million euros you're talking about and you've transferred the state are still unpublished in the DOG. We're in March, and those aids didn't come out in the Official Journal of Galicia; those aids that the Government of Galicia is theoretically going to expand have not yet been published in the Official Journal of Galicia, Mrs. Novoa. If they want to be agitated, they really are agitating. We're in March, published in the Official Journal of Galicia. What do we say? It's not enough, there's a need to increase economic resources. And of course we have to aspire to more beneficiaries, because those aids have a fundamental problem, which is addressed to those who already have the State's assistance. And what's the problem with state aid? How well it's configured, so we've also asked on repeated occasions for its review, it reaches a very minority part. There are over 700,000 Galicians at risk of social exclusion, who have a serious problem with paying the bill, and the state social bond doesn't even reach 100,000. That's the reality. So, you can comply, you can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u199	... to blame the central government or they can use self-government to help the Greeks and the Greeks, which is what BNG proposes with this initiative, because there is capacity on the part of the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u201	...and if they don't, it's because there's no political will. As far as the amendment is concerned, I am confident that from this morning we will be able to carry out a drafting that is content with the parties and that we will be able to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party. And to finish telegraphically,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u203	...if you'll allow me, Mr. President, it's eight o'clock in the afternoon and I don't want to finish without remembering that at this very moment in more than 20 locations the feminism of this country is claiming that the murder committed a few days ago in Barro is a feminicide with all the letters, which has to be recorded in the statistics and that we have to continue to advance in recognition of the violence of the masculine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u205	...in all its spheres, also outside the scope of the couple when there is a cause of harassment continued because of the vigil of the patriarchate. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-22-DSPG074.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. We finish the session until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
