ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with agenda item 5, questions for the president's oral answer. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the strategic lines of the Government of Galicia to make effective access to housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u2	We started with the question of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. Mr. President, all the Greeks and the Greeks, as well as the Spaniards, have the right to enjoy a decent and proper housing. "The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules for the enforcement of that right." Mr President, you, who so much like the Constitution — I too — will know perfectly well that I am reading Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. And in that framework today we've seen here move our deep concern about access to housing in Galicia by young and not so young people, as well as the ineffectiveness of the German Government with regard to public policies on access to this basic right. Mr President, since 2010 to 2020 you have left out of execution in the area of housing nearly EUR 4 billion, which has been aggravated in the last two years, where the execution on this subject by the Galician Union is, in all respects, pathetic. Galicia is the last autonomous community of the state in the creation of protected housing finished on the total housing created between 2011 and 2019. Look: this graph reflects the percentage of protected housing over the total housing built in Spain in that period to which I have just referred. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the Chamber a three-size graph.]] What is highlighted here is the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and here you are pioneers, but in the queue, because it is of course an extreme that shows this failure of public policies in terms of housing. You, who always want to be the first — as I just said — are the last. This is summed up that they have done the same throughout this time: continue with their usual propaganda policy announcing plans and plans. Some documents that, as they say in South America, turn out to be very pintones, that they do, but they don't even contemplate any specific and measurable indicators or targets like the number of protected housing they're going to build, the amount of aid they're going to grant; nothing at all. Because, Mr. Feijóo, in the announced social pact for housing 2021-2025, no specific execution figures are included, and it will surely be because you know that they will not be fulfilled in the meantime. This social pact has a total budget of 72.6 million euros, which is the fifth of which you have left unimplemented for these ten years. How could it be credible that you're going to be able to carry this stuff? In any case, Mr. President, the balance of your management in this matter is a failure. Only in 2020 did you leave 52 million euros unimplemented in housing; in particular, in the rehabilitation and quality housing promotion programme they left out of running thirty-five percent, and in access to housing about sixty-four percent. And all of this when Galicia is experiencing a certainly devastating panorama: there is a huge difficulty in access to housing, we have an accused delay in youth emancipation, and in addition when we sadly see in all the indicators a impoverishment of the population. And in that framework — and so I don't blame myself for lack of information plurality — according to this media, apart from what I mentioned two weeks ago — the rent price in Galicia rose by about 20 percent in the last five years. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the House a photocopy.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u5	In the face of this situation — finished, president — I ask you very much: what are the strategic lines that will follow the Galician Union to make effective access to housing and allow the Greeks and the Greeks to live with dignity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u6	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, let a socialist come to ask for explanations about housing policies to an autonomous government. You're invading the powers of the autonomous communities, they're closing the statute of autonomy. That's why when you declare yourself a defender of the Constitution; the Constitution and the organic laws that develop it in matters of autonomy are the constitutional bloc. Your bill is a bill in all unconstitutional light. I don't say so, he gave the General Council of the Judiciary for rolling the autonomic skills. Now I understand — given the data that you are sure they happen to you and that they are false — maybe you want to intervene the autonomous communities because they are not diligent in the execution of the budget. Falsehood about falsehood; they false our powers and false the execution of our powers. It's a new recentralizing technique of a party called the federal, which is really the most centralist government in all state legislation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018-2021 Housing Plan is 106.5 million euros, 100 percent executed, 100 percent committed. A hundred percent! Reiterate: 100 percent committed. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous Community's housing budgets for the year 2022 are EUR 124 million. Where do you get that kind of data? Show me a graph, do a chart in your office, and come here with a graph. It's amazing! Just like considering that the first social pact for registered housing in Galicia in forty years, 2021-2025, you're talking about seventy-million euros; no, 430 million euros. Check the plan, it's signed by all the agents. It is EUR 433 million in 2021-2025; induced investment, 650 million; total public and private investment, EUR 1,083 million. It supports seventy thousand families, and will create about thirty thousand jobs. I don't say, tell him the eleven entities that signed the pact. Your Honor, come here and talk about this kind of data that you're making up, and you sure as hell aren't. But I repeat again: how does the data go? Twenty-three thousand beneficiaries of aid, 23,000; rehabilitated housing, 279. We're still with data, Your Honor, how many tips for Thursday in small townships and historic helmets. Do you know how many people benefited from the tax on property transmissions in Galicia in respect of housing? Forty-two thousand. Do you know that young people under 36 years of age in rural areas don't pay the inheritance tax? Your Honor, 2022, number of dwellings? Two thousand two hundred eighty-three. Of these, 512 public promotion dwellings, 65 rehabilitated and urbanized houses for households 1,716. This is the data, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u9	By the way, if you want, for example, Rejurbe, from the seven counties of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. But do you really believe this data that you come here, that if we don't, that if we don't run? And it turns out that the budget of the Autonomous Community is 100 percent executed. So, Your Honor, I simply ask you, first, to review the data; second, to clarify ourselves if you will leave us without skills in housing to autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u11	And third, I also ask you if some of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party mayors, especially in the cities, will stop blocking licenses to build housing, rehabilitate housing or urbanize residential soil. Are you going to let us make public housing or self-protection housing in Galicia, yes or no? Nothing else, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u12	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijó, I'm going to make a sincere request. We are going to establish a criterion for you and me based on the consistency and veracity of the data we are going to exchange in this parliament. Why? Because if I say they have left 400 million euros out of execution in ten years, which are the figures that are drawn from the budget executions that their government presents as public accounts, we have a problem. One part of that problem is possibly our torpedoes inherent in our socialist status, which we don't know or add to; another part of the accounts are false, which would be extremely serious, and a third scenario is that you come here twisting a zero until it looks like an eight, which is what I think is happening in this case. Mr. Feijó, so we're not going anywhere. [[Applause]] You continue with a continuous and systematic opposition to the policies of other administrations. Mr. Feijóo, did I quote in my first speech something about central government or have I guided my intervention on a matter of autonomy? I think the answer is obvious. I asked him for his own skills. [[Murmurs.]] Now, if you want to talk about something else, we can talk about it. The Government of Spain, since the beginning of this year, has made a determined bet on public housing policies, on the Bono Rental, which they don't like, for under 35 years; on a State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, which they don't like either, and with that law, which you already know is unconstitutional. Look: I'm going to quote Seneca son, who was the son of Seneca father, of course, when he said, "When we don't know what we're headed to, all the winds in us are unfavorable." [[Laughter]] And that's what happens to you, because everything comes against you, you have no responsibility at all. Mr. President, you're the president of the "no". Not to the Law of Housing, not to the Good Rental, not to the State Plan of Access to Housing, not to guarantee access to a decent housing. And when they voted against the amendments that this parliamentary group tabled in the budgets, they also voted and said not to build housing for public protection, help for youth and help for families. Mr. Feijóo, I really ask you to work together to consolidate that fifth pillar of the welfare state, which is access to a decent home for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Simply invoking what is in that Spanish Constitution. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u14	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u15	Let's hope, Mr. Álvarez, that you come here with some data, because at the moment of that little neighborhood you presented we don't know the origin of that data. No, no, you don't care, if we're here with pictures. [[Murmurs.]] The problem, Your Honor, is not the painting. The problem is the truth. Your Honor, social pact for housing 2021-2025, 433 million euros. And you come here and read 70 million. And it stays so loud. And he says to see if we bring real data. But this is a pact signed with schools, promoters, consumers, self-government, and here comes to say that the documents of the Galician Union... Now we're closing the exercise, I'm telling you that we're going to run 100 percent of the exercise. And he comes here saying we don't execute the budget. As far as housing is concerned, I just gave you 106 million euros last year, committed to 100 percent. And I had just transferred to him concrete data from the year 2022, two thousand two hundred and eighty-three in public housing, rehabilitation of housing or residential soil for public housing or self-protection housing. We are giving concrete data: 2.223. I don't speak about two thousand; no, 2,223. I have the municipalities in each of the places where we're going to make those dwellings. But, of course, now it turns out, Your Honor, that we meet with the following: socialist councils. Vigo. How long did Vigo take to approve the partial plan that we could run Navia's housing? Two years. How long is Vigo taking to give us urbanization license in three concrete projects within Navia? One year. And he hasn't answered yet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We applied for the license in April and May of 2021. We're in February 2022 and it doesn't even answer. Two years to adopt a partial plan to the Board's proposal and one year to license. Ferrol Town Hall. We've bought 19 real estate, we've applied for a license for these real estate. When? In February and March of 2021. No answer. A year without a license to rehabilitate buildings in Ferrol Vello. We can go to Lugo, I think you know him. Lugo's is amazing. Do you know how long they've been without an occupation license? We finished our homes, rehabilitated our homes, asked for leave of employment; the first ones we asked for in May 2021. No employment license nine months later. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want, we'll go to Betanzos. We're buying housing in Betanzos. We've been asking for six buildings for a year. No answer. And you come here to talk about the houses executed by the Galician Union. In all the counties of the Socialist Party for a year without a license, for two years without adopting a partial plan. But we just asked the Greek municipalities to send us and make public the average time for licensing. No city has responded to that requirement, no one! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Can we make a deal, Your Honor, you and I that we transparent the average time of licensing in the municipalities of Galicia? It would be a great pact for housing, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u17	A big deal, when they come in and when they come out. Do you think, Your Honor, that in Lugo you'll take a year to give an occupation license ending a public housing? That's unfortunate, Mr. Álvarez. Sorry! [[Applause]] But, ladies, it's all right. I like that you claim to be a defender of the Constitution. That means you're calling yourself a defender of the Autonomy Statute. You're invading Galician powers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u19	Rectify, correct. Not only those of Galicia, but those of all the autonomous communities. But at last... In any case, Your Honor, I congratulate you on the first two questions you asked me in your role as spokesman. I have to thank you for the form on them, and the content you choose. Anyway, I'm surprised. The first on European funds. It turns out that the data from European funds have just been released and Galicia is the number eleven community in European funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u20	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u21	...per capita. And of the first ten nine are the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and another, oh, surprise!, Castilla y León.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u22	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u23	Long live Castilla and Leon's campaign!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u24	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u25	I insist: I don't say it, say the Ministry of the Fairy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u26	Thank you, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u27	...11, number eleven...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u28	Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u29	...in public spending. And as far as housing is concerned, Your Honor, come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u30	Time's up, president. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u31	...with housing themes, in an alleged unconstitutionality of the Socialist Party's law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u32	Thank you, thank you. Time's up, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u33	...you must congratulate him, and I will, Your Honor. We're talking about real data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u34	Time's up. Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions planned by the Greek Government so that the young Galician youth will no longer be on the queue in emancipation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u35	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u36	Thank you very much. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, today I want to tell you about the young girls who want to be emancipated, who I think we can all understand that it is something very important in a person's life, to be able to get out of their parents' home, and to carry out their life plans. And the truth is, you have to admit that they don't have anything easy. I ask you to put yourself in the skin of a 27-year-old researcher looking for a floor, do you know? I don't know if you know, Mr. Feijóo, what is your chance of success, you only care about papers, you don't care about people. For it is very difficult; fifteen percent achieve it and for an eighty-five percent it is impossible and will therefore fail. We can also put ourselves in the skin of a young man between 30 and 34 years old, for example, who works in the hostel and who looks for floors in Vigo. 40% won't be able to find a flat you can afford. And all of this is because in recent years the price of housing has risen, while the wages of youth have fallen. If we go to the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, what tells us is that in recent years, about twenty-three percent of renters have risen, and in the case of cities, about thirty-one percent. But there are real estate portals, such as The Idealist, who are telling us that in cities the increase is 51%. I ask you to account: most of the young and young people in this country don't get to milleurists, with these resources you have to pay a floor — 400 or 500 euros —, the expenses of that floor, eat — because, of course, young people have the vice to eat every day — and they will realize that it's an impossible mission for most young people to be able to get emancipated. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, we have worrying data. We have the second lowest juvenile emancipation rate in the whole state of people between 30 and 34 years of age. And, yes, we lead a ranking, which is the empty housing ranking. And you come here to tell us that you have no responsibility, but you have all the skills in housing. What have you done, Mr. Feijóo? For basically what he's doing is propaganda, and, yes, all the social housing policy he's been carrying out since the government. [[Applause]] And that's not what I'm saying, is that your data, your data, the data from the Board: 80% of the rental aid is not granted for lack of funds. If we're going to the protected housing that they've pushed, it's in trouble, Mr. Feijóo. Look: in 2015 they pushed five; in 2016, four; in 2017, five; in 2018, two, Mr. Feijóo. And you see this grape, it's not housing, it's not victory, it's ashamed of its housing figures. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo, with his index fingers and the bigger of his right hand raised, makes the symbol of the grape.]] [[Applause]] Their housing policy doesn't exist, it's like a unicorn, a fantasy they create in the TVG, where they manipulate and twist public opinion. Yes, Mr. Feijó. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's why I'm asking him, is he still selling unicorns to youth or is he going to work, exercise skills and make it easier for him to access a decent housing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Pontón, in fact, improving the rate of emancipation of youth is one of the objectives and concerns of Western societies, free societies, societies with governments and parliaments. Therefore, Galicia is among them. Now, here you come to lie explicitly saying that Galicia is the second autonomous community with a lower percentage in the emancipation of youth, when I have: Observatory of Emancipation, Council of Youth of Spain, latest published data, first half of the year 2021, Emancipation rate in the autonomous community: 15.2; above the average of Spain. And it stays so loud. We're the second one on the tail and it turns out we're the eighth one on the top, and it's absolutely so loud. We have more youth emancipation rate than the Basque Country or Navarre, or that Andalusia, Asturias, Canary Islands, Lions, Cantabria, Castile-A Mancha, stays so loud and gives it exactly the same. Because the important thing, Your Honor, is your oratory classes. But look, Your Honor, the problem is not the language classes, the problem is the boys and girls you want to manipulate. [[Applause]] Your Honor, for the emancipation of a boy or a girl needs, first, training, then employment and then housing. And in the field of training, Your Honor, I am very proud of the Greek education system, which you are constantly criticizing. Vocational training: 60,000 students, 70 percent more than when we started, 3,000 million euros of investment in FP. That means that 85% of the students are emancipated and find a job in the FP, and in the dual FP 94%. University. You're talking about the investigation. Yes, but to study a career, in Galicia the university rate is lower than Spain. That's exactly the university emancipation. [[Applause]] And in the matter of dropping out of school, Your Honor, this is indeed emancipation. Emancipating is training. When you ruled, 25.8% of boys and girls didn't finish compulsory education; now it's 8%. This is the greatest emancipation of freedom based on people's training, Your Honor. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, just talking about this here is a very surprising thing. You don't mention that youth unemployment has declined since 2009 by about sixty-five percent. When you were ruling, 51,000 boys were unemployed. You don't say that unemployment this year has dropped by about twenty-nine percent, that doesn't interest you. And in terms of housing — as you come back again, it seems that the Socialist Party did not ask well — because I read the Observatory, paragraph dedicated to Galicia: "The housing market, a housing market that is less exclusive than most communities. In fact, the economic cost of accessing a young person to purchase or rent a free home was still the lowest in Spain." And you come here to talk about the number of houses. But it's amazing, if you give it exactly the same. Public promotion housing: in Coruña, 80; in Santiago, 60; in Vigo, 26; in Vigo, 79; in Vigo, 128; in Pontevedra, 76; in Lugo, 57; in Oímbra, 3; in Pontevedra, 3. We follow: 1,700 sunbeds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u40	...adjudicated residence in the year 2022. In Pontevedra — there is a concierge of Pontevedra — 33. We must admit that in Pontevedra we were licensed, even worse! In Coruña, 224; in Ferrol, 458; in Lugo, 370; in Pontevedra, Valdecorvos, 104; and in Vigo, 331. And come here two, three, four... just to put your fingers to see if they take a picture. Your Honor, this isn't about photos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u41	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u42	...this is about training, employment and housing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u43	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u44	Mr. Feijóo, you told us about education, and you come here and start saying I'm a liar, a manipulator. You're the king of insult. Each one of you in his own style! [[Applause]] I'll leave that heritage to you, of course. And yes, your problem is that you have competence and you don't exercise it. That's why, of course, we've been twelve years where you haven't claimed any, because to more competences, more if you see your incompetence, Mr. Feijóo, your incapacity. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we're going to talk about what's going on in this country. And you should know that because you should be worried if you're stealing the future from young people in Galicia. Look, children under 29, 85% can't be emancipated, Mr. Feijóo... If you give me a moment, because he's wrong when he answers me, and that's an important question. [[Pause.]] [[Laughter]] We have the second lowest juvenile emancipation rate in the entire state of people between 30 and 34 years of age. [[Applause]] It's just that I don't manipulate my words, Mr. Feijóo, because he's already fine with cross-checking session after control session. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The 50 percent of the boys and girls who have jobs all year long have no means to be able to leave their parents' homes if they want, they have to keep living there, because if they don't have to choose between eating or paying bills, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your housing policy -- I told you -- is that it's a bluff, it's a unicorn, it's a fantasy, it's a failure. Please note: Rental program with purchase option for children under 35 years of age, which was one of the big star ads: in four years, thirty housings. We have projects that also sold right-hand and sinister, like the Realuga Programme where there have been years that gave two aids worth 7,000 euros, even though they had budgeted 150,000 euros. [[Applause]] The housing budget, Mr Feijóo, is either that it deceives us in the information it sends us to Parliament or it cannot say the things it says here, because the 2022 housing budget is a forty-six percent lower than it was in 2009, and above all, they leave out two out of three euros that appear on that paper. And they have a registrar of shelter seekers who have collapsed, Mr. Feijóo, with 15,000 people waiting. [[Applause]] And their figures on housing promotion are a shame. I've already given you the data that appears at the Galego Institute of Statistics. But if we go in the middle, before you arrived, when the BNG took responsibility at home, it was promoted by an average of 3,000 shelters every year. Do you know how many with you? They went down seven times that average...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u46	...and they don't reach four hundred in half 12 years, Mr. Feijóo. It's just that these are your housing data! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And come back here, Mr. Feijóo, insult us and don't bring any proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u48	And I want to put three proposals on the table — Mr President — because we are concerned about youth, and we believe that the role we have to do is to give them a chance. We need to increase the resources for rent aid; secondly, we need to promote public promotion housing in rent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u49	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u50	...because we want to look like Europe, which has an average of nine percent of housing in rent and here we have only 1%. Mr. Feijóo, how many homes of Navia would be for public promotion of rent? It would be very nice if they told us because that's the possibility you have... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u52	...people with less resources of access to housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u54	And finally, you're serious about working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u56	...to mobilize this empty dwelling, because what can't be more bluffing and selling more unicorns to this country's youth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You tell me we have skills at home. You will then be against the Housing Bill of your partners. Tell him! Are you going to protect Galicia or will you protect your partners? [[Murmurs.]] Because at the moment, Your Honor, this bill is being approved gives me the feeling that we are not going to hold a lot of housing control sessions because we can't even decide on what we dedicate to the Autonomous Community public housing park. Mrs Pontón, what you're lying about in Parliament is not a new issue, it's a fairly continuous issue over the last eighteen years. But to say here when I quote the Observatory of the Council of Youth of Spain, and I quote all the data of the first half of the year 2021, and now tell me: no, no, I referred to those from 30 to 34 years old... look, Mrs. Pontón, please: a little respect for the Greeks, that we are not as dumb as you think, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We're not as stupid as you think we are! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, I don't come here to brag about anything, but at least to defend the country. I know I'm very concerned about the increase in the prices of your partner who rules in Spain. We have the highest IPC of the last forty years, and come to say that it is the fault of the opposition in Madrid of the Popular Parliamentary Group. It's a very surprising thing, Your Honor. We have the most expensive housing prices, and you come here to blame those who are opposed to national policies, economic policies and farm policies. We have the highest taxes: labour taxes, social security taxes, fuel taxes, electricity taxes, and you're worried about Thursday's emancipation. Yes, Your Honor, in that we agreed, I'm absolutely worried. What happens is that we don't agree with those policies, and you rule everywhere with those policies. That's the big difference, Your Honor, between you and me. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, if we have 106,5 — I am saying: 106,5 — budget in 2021 on housing, and I am telling you that 100 percent are committed, I suppose it will be a sufficiently explicit statement. You come here to boast of the Bipartite's residence. I appreciate you talking about the Bipartite from time to time. You know it broke the gestures, the ones that were dedicated to making public themselves for housing. You know we had to inject 200 million euros. Broken! And come here boasting of a break. Let's see if people don't remember that we broke the housing policies, broke the gestures, and had to come the PP lords pay what we left to do. Yes, Your Honor, great housing policy! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what happens: it must be understood that when a person takes so long in politics without solving a single problem for the Greeks and without managing a single public euro, because, of course, he comes here... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u60	...doing as a commenter. That's easy, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I also understand that virtually no young man in the country has been able to get a 26-year-old record and keep it 18 years later. That's really called "nationalist emancipation." [[Laughter]] The real emancipation, Your Honor, goes through training, education, the drop in the drop in the drop in the drop in the school dropout rate, the lowest university rates in Spain, the lordship, and vocational training, the best in the European regions. Emancipation is about reducing taxes on young people who buy housing. Emancipation passes, Your Honor, by reasonable and decent housing policies. Emancipation doesn't go through joining the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u61	Now we have a change in the agenda, which I think has already been reported. And five questions will be substanceized, in particular, two of them were welcomed from the previous session, which could not be formulated. Question from Da Paloma Castro Rey and two other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the recovery for the public of the convent of Santa Clara, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u62	So let's start with Mrs. Paloma Castro Rey's question of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Wait a moment for the thing to be a little quieter to pose the question. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u63	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The convent of Santa Clara, in Pontevedra, dates from the 13th century. It was a closing convent belonging to the order of the Claris nuns. Besides being a real estate with historical value for the pontiffs and pontiffs, it also has a very special value. From its construction in 1270 and until last year, until December 1, 2021, which was sold to the Town Hall of Pontevedra and became a public asset, it has passed seven hundred and fifty years. Seven hundred and fifty years of mystery no one knew what was behind those walls. A place from which the bridgekeepers and the bridgekeepers only knew a small chapel and a room with a lap, where couples left their eggs so that they wouldn't be rained on the day of their wedding and where children and children would look for the remnants of the wafers. And so in the center of my city there was this mysterious immobile and spectacular dimensions, almost five thousand five hundred square meters built, with a garden that we can say is like a Central Park to the bridge, because it has more than ten thousand square meters of green areas, with a spectacular chestnut forest, countless fruit trees and vines. And from these vines, some strains that were found the other day were declared extinct. Therefore, a jewel within our city. I think there is no doubt about the heritage and cultural value of this good. Although it is necessary to determine the state in which it is located, on a first visit by technicians, it was determined that it required an integral rehabilitation of this property and an important action in the green areas. On December 14, the Council and Parliament of Pontevedra agreed in a protocol to the future assignment of Santa Clara to the Museum of Pontevedra, to adapt these facilities to the needs of the provincial institution. The first option was to use the museum of this good, since the Museum of Pontevedra, as you know, enjoys a great heritage wealth, which is currently stored for lack of space to expose it to the public. To do this, they plan to conduct archaeological, architectural and conservation studies in order to determine exactly the actual state in which this property is located. Well, given the cultural importance of this heritage, the Socialist Parliamentary Group understands that the Government of the Union has to compromise its economic collaboration so that this heritage jewel can have that cultural use as important as Pontevedra and Galicia. And although during the first official visit both the Vice President of the Board and you have avoided confirming this financial support from the Autonomic Administration for the rehabilitation of this good, we understand that you must undertake to invest in this rehabilitation of Santa Clara by providing at least 50 percent of its cost, as is being done by the Unity of Galicia elsewhere. And I cite as examples the monastery of Santa Maria de Oia, the convent of Santo Antonio de Herbón, the museum house of Valle Inclán in Vilanova de Arousa or the castle of Santa Cruz da Garda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Answer by the Education, Culture and University Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u65	Good morning, Mr. President. Madam, the truth is that your written question is not exactly what makes me orally. You ask if you understand the Government of Galicia that is positive the recovery for the public of the convent of Santa Clara in Pontevedra. The fact that he was bought in this case by the Council of Pontevedra, the truth is that it has already been said: we understand that yes, that it is positive that the municipalities, the deputies, any public institution is involved in buying, protecting and defending our heritage. I wish it were more recurrent and easier! It's good news if you have a market. But from here, and also after listening to you, everything seems at least a little surprising. It's a bit surprising because as far as we know, we have no official record, we have no official contact with what you want to do there. The truth is, almost the questions were to be asked backwards. I don't understand it's a perversion of the democratic exercise and parliamentary exercise, do I, but it's almost a bit backwards. I mean, did you know when they bought the real estate they knew how much it would cost to rehabilitate it, or did you know what use it was, or what use they wanted to make, or how it was, or what need it to be rehabilitated to keep it? Because, of course, you're telling us a question that's really very difficult to understand. Tell us, the Board is 50 percent. And I say, why is it fifty percent? why not sixty percent? On what basis do you base yourself to say fifty percent? Or thirty-three percent? or forty-eight percent? He says fifty percent, which seems to me like a round number, but it could be another number. There's no argument that you give us so we can make a decision, we don't know anything. We see statements in the media, we see a question raised as a sort of wishful thinking, but we really don't know anything else. We don't even know if you've applied to other institutions or not, or how you're going to consider it. We really don't know. So it's very difficult to answer at parliamentary headquarters with the seriousness it implies about something that is absolutely in the air and that is beyond a statement of political intentions. But in any case, Madam, you may be quite sure, because I believe that the groups expressed it at local level, the vice-president himself expressed it and I say it: it is a good news that if you have that good market, and I hope that many more goods will be bought by the councils and by the deputies. The Galician Union is working on rehabilitation in Pontevedra, in the historical heritage, in Santa Maria, for example, you quoted it. In the Inclan Valley itself, which is also historical heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u66	Thank you, Counselor, time's up. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u67	But really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u68	Thank you, thank you. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, you had to do it backwards, that's enough. I've had a lot of fun. I was funny about that expression, man! [[Laughter]] I'm sorry, but I'm very grateful for your answer. Of course, which is a question, the question had to be asked backwards. Of course, one question backwards is to start with the answer. I say, I don't know. It made me funny... it's something that... but nothing. [[Laughter]] I apologize for that, that's all. There's no greater wickedness in this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Castro's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. You always throw balloons out. I'll tell you what I base my request on. I base it on the Spanish Constitution, which in Article 148.1 recognises autonomous communities the competences in matters of monumental heritage; in the Statute of autonomy, which also determines the exclusive competence for the promotion of the cultural values of the Greek people; in Law 5/2016, of cultural heritage of Galicia, which also speaks of exclusive competence of the Galician Union on the cultural heritage of Galicia, or in Article 3 thereof, where it speaks of administrative collaboration and talks of collaboration with local authorities to safeguard cultural heritage. So look where you look at it: the commitment of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to cultural heritage must be irrevocable. Here we're talking about a real estate that has a great value strictly linked to the historical becoming of my city and the Greek people. And it is not questionable, therefore, for this immovable to hide goods that should be considered of interest to the permanence, recognition and identity of the Greek culture over time. And I can cite the four 18th-century altarpieces, the pulpit, the silhouette, the choir or the organ of 1795, as well as a Roman nun who was found in one of the rooms — a small column dating from the Roman era — as well as millennial trees or — as I said in the first intervention — the strains of a vine that were feared to be extinguished. As you know, the Pontevedra Museum is one of the most relevant and important museums in Galicia, and it still has many pieces kept because they cannot be exposed to the public. Therefore, the Government of the Union must continue to promote our cultural heritage and must participate in the comprehensive rehabilitation of this building, in order to maintain not only its self-esteem, but also in order to be able to expand the Museum of Pontevedra, and that all Greeks and Greeks can enjoy these goods that belong to us all. So I ask you not to do the plane and to carry it out if you have thought to contribute -- you said at least 50 percent -- to the comprehensive rehabilitation of this good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Close this question, Education, Culture and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, our commitment to Galicia's general heritage and, of course, to Pontevedra's, I think it's clear. What would we like to have more resources to have more investor capacity? No doubt neither. And I cited some examples that we're doing in Pontevedra's own city in Santa Maria. I think it's a rehabilitation of one of the most symbolic churches with the most important emotional value in the city. Or the Inclán Valley Institute itself, which is an element with a cultural value that is also basic in the city itself. I could give you data from the municipalities where we invest, from the performances, from the millions, but, well, it's data that doesn't bring any greater interest. And I repeat what I said to him: we understand that it is good to work, to buy, to rehabilitate the heritage and to enhance our history, to our tradition without any doubt. And we recognize it was a good operation, if you want to plan. And the Pontevedra Museum doesn't question, nobody questions it, it's one of the great museums of Galicia and Spain. Now, from there and from this common base, what you bring us here really is — as it were in a gentle way — a very indolent stance, because, without knowing it, a public administration virtually more than a media political statement suggests to you that there are a number of decisions in the parliamentary headquarters, which, of course, there is no reference to how to make it. That's right. And really, as long as you don't have more information, as long as you don't know what you want to do, that by the way, you're right that you're trying to know what you want to do, as you're structurally, you don't know the museum project, you don't know the exhibition project, you'll have to have some information and then you'll have to evaluate and make the decisions that are necessary. But, in any case, to arrive with a specific date and with a specific amount seems very unserious, beyond trying to pull out a headline or beyond trying to get you now to say, is that the board doesn't get engaged, and stay so wide. Well, you can do it. That's what the citizens are going to do for a little while, and they're going to say, here's the politicians talking to them again. It doesn't make any sense what you're asking us. Certainly, if we have to keep in mind that Pontevedra is a space, a city with great cultural equipment, where we have to improve the archive itself, the library itself. And we have a great project, which, by the way, is in the heart of the city, which is the former headquarters of Fairy, San Francisco, where you want to raise a new archive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I asked the minister to make a library there, the central library, the Odriozola, because it would be an element that would...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u73	...life in the city center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u74	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u75	...and it would generate very positive urban dynamics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u76	Thank you. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u77	I think you have to see it like this and do it with specific data, and not elubrations... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u78	Thank you. Time's up. You know what this is like. Time's up, we get it. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Well, see if that management's okay then. Thank you. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the situation in which the new curricula derived from the application of the Organic Law are being developed, amending the Organic Law on Education for its application in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u79	Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Welcome, Counselor. LOMLOE, or the Celaá Law, came into force in January 2021 after it used the pandemic in an unacceptable way to shorten the deadlines, avoiding its debate and breaking with all the work done through the State Covenant for Education. As it is known, the People's Group believes that LOMLOE is a imposed law, elaborated from behind the autonomous communities, which are really the ones that have to apply them. In addition, it is a law that introduces perverse effects and attacks the basic pillars of the system, such as quality, equity, equal opportunities and the culture of effort. In any case, the Education Council has always faced this new situation since its loyalty to and respect for regulations. And this People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia coincides with the Council of Galicia in the need to continue to work so that within the framework of legality the Greek education system will not be affected by the application of this new law, which goes against the culture of effort, thus impoverishing education. In any case, the vigil of organic law obliges the adaptation of educational curricula; the question in which the Ministry of Education takes several months of delay, in which it thus violates its own law. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has been wasting time making propaganda forums of the law, but the texts of the royal decrees remain pending for approval. Therefore, your publication in the Official State Gazette has not been made, when it has already been completed more than a year since its entry into force. This affects the adaptation that the autonomous communities of the curriculum have to make. In view of this situation, it should be recalled that in October the House of Commons adopted, with the votes of the People's Party and the Galego Nationalist Block and with the abstention of the Socialist Party, the following agreement: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to request the Ministry of Education to be flexible in the creation of new curricula derived from the application of LOMLOE, as a preliminary step in order to be able to adapt to the specificities of Greek education and, among other things, to facilitate that the council may offer the Greek professor a set of tools and computer tools to enable the development of teaching programming according to the current curriculum model." In view of this agreement by this very Welsh chamber, we would like to know, Counsellor, what is the situation in which the development of the new curricula derived from the application of LOMLOE for its implementation in our community. Nothing else, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u81	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, the fact is that fourteen months after the adoption of the law and two ministers after the adoption of the law, we continue without curricula in the perhaps most complex stages of organizing in the education system, which are primary, secondary and baccalaureate. We have continued without resumes despite the fact that on many occasions we have seen progress on dates that are not in place, we have seen above all in the media different aspects that are dealt with in the basic part of the curricula that the State develops, and on many occasions we also learned this information through the media itself, beyond a rather obvious lack of respect for autonomous communities. But the truth is that we are in a situation that is beginning to be absolutely worrying, because it is worrying that the publication of decrees — as I said — of primary, secondary and Bachelor's degree. The procedure is that the State must pass its decrees with the basic contents of 50% and the autonomous communities — including the Galician — must approve the remaining 50%. Obviously, here are some times of administrative processing. The processing of an autonomous decree in any autonomous community is between six and seven months. If the State keeps the levels of delay, two months already as a child, and moves them to the rest of the educational stages, we will attend — I warn this chamber and I warn Galicia — a final course and a tremendously chaotic course, resulting from the inability to publish by the Government of the State of its curricula — as I said — fourteen months after its approval and two ministers later, despite the statements we have seen in the media. Obviously, Galicia is working. We have many working groups, around one hundred and fifty people, who are already developing our own curricula, so soon the state curricula are published power immediately — as we are doing in the field of childhood — to approve our curricula and to be able to reach the end of course-principle by knowing what teachers have to teach in their classrooms, what students have to receive in their classrooms and how the system is going to be organized. If this delay is maintained, I warn you, with concern and pity, that we are going to have a tremendously serious organizational problem in the education system itself. And this basically stems from the State's inability to meet its deadlines, fulfill its times and fulfill its responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u83	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities, so we see, continue to expect the Ministry of Education to implement the texts of legal validity, the changes that will involve the new educational curricula of LOMLOE and the objectives at the different levels of teaching of the educational system. And what you just manifested with this delay is compromising or almost impossible to arrive in time at the beginning of the next school course, which is the date set by the Celá Law itself for the new curricula to enter into force. It's a concern not only about Galicia, but about all the autonomous communities. So much so that Mr. Sánchez's own partners have just rebuked the minister for the hasty way in the preparation of the curricula. Of course, this parliamentary group always defends that debate and that this work should be done within the framework of the State Pact for Education, which the Socialist Party has renounced. For you to come up with an idea, the fine model, which is one of the most advanced models in the field of education, has been working for four years and consensualizing the curricula, in view of the model we have in Madrid, which they want to do in four months. Which he believes, of course, because the very little interest in doing a real job for the future of our students. Because it is necessary to have enough time, since once approved — as the adviser said — it is necessary to adapt the new curriculum to develop the corresponding programming, as well as to create the necessary computer tools and print the new textbooks. So, Counsellor, with this second intervention — and already to finish — you can go ahead with how these initiatives are being developed to, in some way, minimize the impact that is causing such a delay in the preparation of curricula. Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u85	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u86	Certainly, in this area there is a great coincidence in the vast majority of autonomous communities; all, regardless of the political sign, we are frankly concerned about the organizational transcendence of structure that it has for the system not to have the necessary curricula to be able to develop its own parts at the necessary times, and to start the course — as the honourable Member has said — with editorials, materials, new modalities of baccalaureate, etc. From Galicia we have been and we are absolutely respectful and loyal, but obviously we cannot be silent in a situation that can cause a very difficult situation. What is our function? What are we doing? We have already, as I said earlier, long-standing working groups, long before Christmas, with professionals, inspectors, mentors. I think there's a volume of one hundred and fifty people who are already developing the Welsh curriculum, which obviously cannot be closed until we've published the state decree. From there on, there's a technical part, where you're working with the working groups, but there's a part of administrative processing, which I'm saying is around six months and which can lead us to a very complex situation. And that very complex situation -- as I said -- stems from the inability to implement in a compact way, in a sensible way, in an organized way, in a reasonable way, the new curricula. It's hard to understand so quickly. But listen, you know, if there's so much hurry, you're responding to that rush. Not just say: I'm in a hurry, but I'm still. Because this inaction subsequently results in the inability of autonomous communities themselves to develop the corresponding part of the curricula. And I insist: child about 15 days ago. By the way, to Galicia practically without any news, because the great principles that I have raised in Galicia have been doing so for a long time. The great novelty of the children's curriculum is that there is an educational program within children's schools from 0 to 3 years old, and in Galicia we already have it, or that progresses progressively towards gratuity, when Galicia is an example in that field. But we are still missing — I insist — primary, secondary and bachelor's degree. And what I want — as I have already said — is that Galicia is aware of this situation and that we are aware that it is necessary, tremendously necessary, that the State fulfils the deadlines that it says; because if not really in the medium term the education system of Galicia, because just like that of the whole autonomous communities, it will have a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u87	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia on the current situation of the opposition procedure in German education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u88	Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u89	Thank you, President. The Galician board has been engaged in more than a decade with the stabilization of educational staff in non-European university education. A real commitment that is certified through the convening of numerous squares in different public job offers. A commitment that means something basic, such as constancy in the calls for oppositions, which is achieved through the stability of governments, because when there is stability in governments, you can actually govern and do things the right way. And I say this because in the face of this situation in other autonomous communities with unstable governments, they are unable to routinely convene these squares, and thus increase their interim rates. In 2021, the 2020 OP tests were carried out, which had been welcomed by the appearance of the covid pandemic. This call meant an offer of 3,894 squares in different specialties to strengthen the stabilization of the teaching staff and to reduce their inter-ness. On account of the presentation also of the 2022 autonomous budgets, you, Counsellor, explained in this Chamber that this year 2022 is scheduled to hold the OPE tests of the 2021 call, in which there are 1,600 places offered, along with those corresponding to the new call of the OPE by the year 2022. The truth is, in the face of the controversy generated by the announcement of a new royal decree by the ministry to change the system of oppositions, nothing more and nothing less than the few months of beginning the celebration of these oppositions, of course it was a fact that caused uncertainty in the collective of thousands of opponents who have been studying for months, spending a lot of time and also investing their savings. Mr Counsellor, in the face of so much going, and taking into account the necessary application of the current legislation and the procedures that must be followed, I would like to ask you: in what situation is the procedure for the oppositions in Greek education today? Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u90	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The development of LOMLOE is a constant succession of chaos, improvisation, of changing the rules in the middle of the party, of uncertainty and, if I may, of a small disaster, which if one day is studied will be an example of what should not be done. And the subject of opposition is the same, because the rules of the system of oppositions are changed to a few months after they are celebrated for the whole of Spain, without any apparent question beyond any desire to try to reduce the rate of interim in the whole of Spain. But seriously prejudicing hundreds of thousands of young men and women who are studying to be able to teach, who put their vital hopes in a teaching opposition and who in the morning see a system changed which is intendedly oriented to give stability to the official teachers, which is also important to do so. And I think here in Galicia we saw this situation, we saw the social reaction that there was and we made the right decisions to ensure equality, to guarantee equity and to provide legal security to thousands of people who stand in opposition. For example, last year 26,000 people came forward with opposition, and they didn't deserve to be changed to the rules of play a few months before they started a vital process that was so important to them. We announce that we will do — if we say so — this year: Galicia will take about 3,000 squares this year. These 3,000 squares are going to be divided into two different processes: On the one hand, approximately 2,500-2,600 will go through the old system, adding themselves to the squares of 2021 and to the squares of 2022; necessary to maintain the system. It should be borne in mind that the 2021s were not celebrated because the 2020s were held. And for the stabilization in this case of the Interim Teachers, we put forward a specific contest on the basis of a real decree that is not yet approved, and that we propose it at the end of the course to also give hope and hope in this case also to the Interim Teachers in their search for their necessary and positive stabilization as well. So, I don't think we miss those Thursdays that through the application of LOMLOE they look absolutely damaged, and we don't fail the interiors considering also the specific processes that will be done. The dates in the first cases will be the usual, mid-year, and the latter, the specific contest, will be in this case taking off at the end of the month. But the most important thing — as I say — is that we are able — and Galicia is an example — to stabilize the teacher...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u93	...and to give good working conditions to the professor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u94	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u96	Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u97	Thank you, President. I would like, of course, to put in place that commitment of the Galician Union, also all the effort that is developing its department, advisor, to expand the teaching templates, to lower the inter-intensity rate, which aims to give greater stability to the professor, as he has just said, and thus improving the quality of the education system, which is one of the main legs of our system. So, I think that the data is clear and that the summons are developing and that they are used to expose in some way such a lie; lies about which the opposition strategy of this chamber often takes place against the educational system. Because in view of the mantras strategy is the reality of the data, where Galicia continues to lead the stabilization processes of its faculty in Spain, Galicia is the Spanish community along with Extremadura that most teachers have with respect to its number of students, Galicia has salaries approved above the state average. And it's data that they believe that Junta is worrying about something as important in the education system as human resources, such as its body of teachers and teachers, which, of course, constitute the fundamental cornerstone of the education system. To finish, Mr. Counsellor, see if you can sink further into the proceedings of the call for oppositions, in which they are celebrating in recent years and also the data of the stability rate in the Greek teacher. Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u98	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Galicia has a good education system; it can obviously improve. But he has a system of education, and see our data. Behind the good results is the whole community, but a very important link to the value chain is the teachers, he's the professor, he's the professionals of teaching. And within this link is the stability, the ability to have work stability, to be able to implement medium-term, long-term projects, to be able to develop strategies at each center according to its characteristics. I mean, professional stability, which is also vitally valuable. Galicia is in good data. In fact, the policy that the State wants to implement to get to a top of a penitentiary, Galicia already has. The measures that the State wants to implement are to reach about eight percent of the penitentiary. Galicia is eight percent. I think it's a fact to recognize that Galicia has one of Spain's lowest interim rates, 8%, which is precisely the target for the Spanish set. The average of Spain is around twenty-five percent, and some autonomous communities are around forty percent interns. And this isn't random fruit. This is the result of this government's commitment, which since 2009, obviously depending on the characteristics of each year, has been able to go out every year taking steps to stabilize the teacher, to generate official teacher squares and to give people and professionals stability. And in that sense, as I said before, this royal decree, which is thought of as objective, in Galicia its effects are those that are, not too many, because that objective we already have. And if we haven't done what we've done in advance of the convening of elections to the publication of the decree of the state, we'd be harming thousands of young people and girls who put their hopes in a process of opposition to the education system. I said last year's data, it was about twenty-six thousand people. This year we hope that the whole selective process will be done with the same normality that was done last year. And we hope that the State, which the ministry, will reflect on its great capacity -- you there, if I recognize you with great ability -- to constantly change the rules of play in the middle of the party, generating chaos, uncertainty and an absolutely unbearable sense of detachment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u100	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage with regard to Judgment 14/2020 of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u101	Question by Mrs. Mercedes Complaints from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Last June 2021 from the BNG, we asked the Cultural Commission to the Director General of Cultural Heritage that reasons justified the repeated offers of recruitment to Tragsatec to prepare reports of interventions in cultural interests and catalogued goods. This is a procedure that the Director General, Mrs. Martínez Insua, has become usual since 2018, in chains today nine contracts to Tragsatec, which account for more than two million euros. At that time we asked for explanations to the Director General of Heritage because we found multiple irregularities: First of all, we understood that the high qualification, the high expertise required by these technical reports, should be carried out by the team of archaeologists, archaeologists, architects, officials of the Culture Council itself; staff with technical capacity, capacity and independence, and not by staff other than an ad hoc contractor. Secondly, because we realized that Tragsatec on occasion was art and part of this procedure, i.e., it was producing reports of works that would soon be assisted. We were asked where the impartiality was to defend the Council of Culture. Thirdly, we indicated that Tragsatec is a farm-end company, which has nothing in its founding purpose to do such work, nor did it have its own staff to carry out this order. In fact, they hired staff through InfoJobs through personal interviews. Fourthly, we also indicated that Tragsatec sometimes took off the official units of the Joint files that evidently contained sensitive information and personal data. We wondered where that protection was from the personal data that must be prioritized and prioritized by the Council of Culture. And in the fifth and final place, we found that we were facing a process of outsourcing the work that corresponded to the officials and officials of the Council of Culture, which was in time, in 2018, with the termination of the contract to interim officials. Finally, we qualified this procedure as the creation of a parallel administration from the breakdown of the human and technical resources of the Council of Culture. [[Applause]] And today we reiterate this matter again in this plenary, Counsellor, because a recent judgment of very few days ago, as a result of an appeal brought by the IGC before the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, has just failed against this practice that we have already denounced in this chamber, declaring it illegal, nullifying it. So proving that at BNG we were right and that the CEO of Cultural Heritage lied to this camera. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u104	We are facing a capital scandal of what you have to answer today in this plenary, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u105	Thank you. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u106	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Madam, the truth is that the reason for these orders is obvious, is to give, to meet the demands of citizenship. And a management order is not illegal, it's absolutely legal. It is collected in recruitment regulations, and it employs all political administrations, both at different levels and at different parties. And, of course, the professionals who do the reports, I'd have a little flush to distrust their training. I don't have to do it; I understand they do it according to their professional base. One fact, I don't understand it as criticism, you talk about the parallel administration, and I'm going to give you a data: in 2005, Tragsa billed in Galicia 76 million euros, a councillor in; management orders, eh! In 2008 there were 126 million euros in management orders. That's what you're saying, "parallel administration." It gives the feeling that administrations can make management orders and other administrations can't perform management orders. They're descriptive data, not to mention specific advice, but you probably have easy access to this data. The Central Administration is also doing this today. For example, all the processing that was done in the field of cultural aid by the ministry was done on the basis of management orders, with reports, with all the parts that were incorporated into the files, in an absolutely normal way, and certainly also with Tragsatec. You give a version. What I'm telling you is that the Galician Union in no case subcontracted workers illegally to assess the impacts on the heritage, in no case. I'm also going to tell you that all the performances that have been carried out by human teams with technical and professional knowledge that have been evaluated and supervised by officials, as it must be, by the Directorate-General for Heritage. Obviously, in no case does the judgment question the legality of management orders, it simply nullifies a part of the work being developed. But from then on try to generate a general cause, talk about "parallel administration," when really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u108	...if we look at the mirrors, we see ourselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u109	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u110	...because it's really something that doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u111	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u112	I'm glad you have, Counselor, a comfortable chair next to you because after the terrible pirouette you've just done to not answer me, it's like getting dizzy. [[Applause]] Look: the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia declares illegal a political action of the Council of Culture, of which you are the most responsible as advisor. Are you telling me that citizenship is being treated in violation of the law? Are you really telling me that? [[Applause]] The sentence is very forceful. Lina, of course, like you or your team — as I do not have the slightest doubt — and the judgment says that the preparation of these reports corresponds to the exclusive functions of the civil servants. It says this sentence that it is not justified to speak of urgency for its part when nine orders have been made since 2018. He says it's fraudulent this procedure that you use because you had more than one hundred thirty archaeologists and archaeologists who could complete the Technical Service of the Culture Council. [[Applause]] And yet it was consciously outsourced to Tragsatec, who had to hire sixteen people, a total of seventeen to perform these functions. Which says the ruling that it's proven that it didn't have this company technical capacity, nor did it have staff for a high-quality job, which constitutes an infringement of the requirements of adequacy, efficiency and fitness. Counsellor, please respond in this second turn that you have for your word: Is Tragsatec still reporting this report to the BICs at the moment? When will the archeologists and archaeologists markets be created that are needed for the RPT? When will the vacancies that follow year after year finally be filled? Of course it justifies the burden of work, so do they have to act by providing human resources to the Directorate-General for Heritage? Who is going to assume responsibility for the breakdown of more than two million euros by the Culture Council, which now declares this judgment illegal? [[Applause]] Answer this: who will assume responsibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u114	...the Director General of Cultural Heritage or you as Cultural Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u115	Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u116	Mrs. Complaints, management orders are absolutely legal, and it is a prerogative of the public administration. And you as a government do it, they did it and they do it. They did it, they do it and they do it, they don't have the slightest doubt, because they're doing it. [[Murmurs.]] From here, ask me a question that I'm really going to be happy to answer: Will Tragsatec continue working this way? Obviously not. That's how you feel about it. In fact, we're already working with the Public Service to try to incorporate the necessary means. Now, trying to move from a technical-legal conflict, trying to create a general piece, it's really something clearly surprising. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to tell you a question that I think is important: the General Directorate of Heritage manages about twenty-two thousand files a year. We think of citizens, we want to give a quick and agile response to citizens. That's why we resort to an administrative prerogative to do so. And we've cut the deadlines tremendously. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what we understand positive. Do we have to change how we do things? Well, possibly you do. Now, trying to say that there is an intention of a parallel administration or that Tragsatec professionals are not trained, or that there is no supervision by the officials of the Directorate-General of Heritage is an account that is very good for you to applaud, but that is not true. With which it doesn't make much sense, Mrs. Complaints, to stay in that mess. In any case, Tragsatec makes no resolutions, something that is vital. Orders don't make any resolutions; those who do them are their own officials. And what was asked of him was internal work, always under the supervision of the officials themselves. And to finish, I want three questions to be very clear: First, management orders are legal instruments that form part of the Contracts Act and are in the current legislation. Then we'll agree, won't we? Do we agree? All right. Secondly, they are means that use all public administrations and all political parties. We'll agree, won't we? Then we'll agree, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in this case we're not going to be, because we did it to improve management effectiveness, and we managed to significantly reduce the deadlines for issuing the authorizations relevant to the demands of Heritage reports, to give better service to citizenship. From here this system is not worth it, because, as I told you, we're working for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u117	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u118	...design another system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u119	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u120	...to maintain the same level of authorisations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u121	Time's up. Thank you. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the need to offer Bachelor of Arts in the Town Hall of Rendondela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u122	Question by Manuel Antonio Lorenzo Sobral of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u123	Many students have to give up their dreams because they can't afford to travel to other municipalities and they have to study something that doesn't love them, something that doesn't motivate them, something that doesn't reach their hearts. Whoever doesn't want to see it opens his eyes. This, Counselor, is not something I say, is something that Estela said, a 15-year-old girl who was only going to her neighbours in a concentration called by the Roundup AnPA Federation. I know some people didn't seem to be able to attend that day, but even though it was a federation that brought together 13 ANPA from public centers in Roundla—who we would like to thank today for being present in this parliament and to whom we also want to send a greeting to those who are following on streaming this session—what they feel and what they are publicly transferring, Counsellor, is that the Joint Mind and Leaves to the families of Roundla. [[Applause]] You're here, Counsellor, and you're following this speech because you want to see them in your eyes and explain why on September 22 in this parliament a BNG initiative has been approved to equip you with the Arts Bachelor's Roundup, and now you despise not only the agreements of this parliament, despise the neighborhood of Roundup, even one of your fellows who wants to point out at it and, worst of all, Mr. Counsellor, despise the students and students of Roundup who want to study Arts Bachelorship. Mr. Rodríguez, you lied, you lied to the neighborhood of Round it. And the evidence is that, when the directors of the centers called the Educational Inspection to ask you how to proceed to install that bachelor's degree, what they said from the Educational Inspection was literally (sic): "from the board no variation has been moved to the next academic course." You have to have an armed concrete face, Counselor! Here implementing the Bachelor of Arts and not giving any instructions to the council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u124	Excuse me a second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u125	And maybe that's why when...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u126	Excuse me a second, just a second. I've stopped timing. They may not have been warned — I was addressed to our guests — that there can be no demonstrations in the rostrum either in favour or against. Probably... No, the clock's down. No, but we have to... I'm just saying it because maybe they didn't tell them, and I think there's a rule in this parliament, and my duty is to remember Parliament's rules. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So, please don't make these demonstrations, either in favor or against. [[Murmurs.]] Whenever you like, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u127	And that's why, Counsellor, perhaps I should also give an explanation to the ANPA Federation addressing the Territorial Chiefship, and the only answer they found was the shameful silence of the People's Party. What's he in? [[Applause]] Well, in pimpampum, in throwing balloons out, in blaming other administrations. [[Applause]] And we ask ourselves, Counselor: Were you the only one who didn't find out in September that this year that comes in we were going to have five arts baccalaureates? Are you qualified to run a council when you approve agreements and now you claim that you don't know that reality? Tell us, Counsellor: Is this the same problem that you claim is not true in Mos, Vigo and so many places where the Bachelorship of Arts is going to be implemented? Stop lying, Counselor. Respect the student from Round it up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u128	Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorenzo. Streaming is hardly necessary with its high tone of voice. I think you understand it the same way, but it's your way of doing politics and praying, and I respect it. [[Laughter]] And you do a policy of very peak but of little pa, because you build a speech -- I say, I lie, I go away, you cheat -- but you forget the key and fundamental question, you forget about the spa; the peak doesn't, the peak has it very well, but you forget about the pa. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] What are we asking about? You haven't heard the answer from the resumes before, I understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't think I'd listened to her. I respect very much the demands of the ANAP Federation, of families. I see him well. That means there's an implication and it means that you want to make a bachelor's degree. Positive, tremendously positive. Now, from there that you build an absolutely uplifting speech, because it really is your style — you respect it — but I don't understand it must be what leads to political action. Look: LOMLOE modifies the curricula. We don't know what the curriculum is going to be like, we don't know what the two new modalities of the Bachelor of Arts are going to be like. You, about what do you want me to ask, about a bachelor's degree that's going to go out for the next course? Do you want this course to be implemented a bachelor's degree that for the coming year no longer exists? Or would you like me to ask about something we don't know what it's gonna be like? That's the reality. There are new forms of bachelor's degree, a generalist bachelor's degree, which at best changes family demands. And then I can't afford you to talk about nothing. There were meetings of the Inspection Service to evaluate existing demands, there are data. For example, the student's application to enroll in the Bachelor of Arts in 2019-2020 was six, in 2020-2021 it was seven, in 2021-2022 it was ten. We all know, too, that there's a wide range of baccalaureate offers. In any case, in the face of this modality of Arts you will have to wait for the curricula made, you will have to study it. Study it? Yes, no doubt. Is this the time? It's not the time. Why isn't this the time? [[Murmurs.]] Because they don't exist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u130	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u131	...the resumes and why we don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u133	...what the baccalaureate will be like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u134	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u135	And from there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u136	He's got another round later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u137	When you act honestly, consistently and with respect for public education, you can speak loudly, Counselor. When you act your own way, you have to talk through the silence and spend a minute and a half doing meatballs so as not to go to the center of the debate. [[Applause]] Counselor, it seems to us great that if you have to ask self-catering questions about what's going on with the resumes. And partly so we can agree. Do you know what's going on, Counselor? In 2015, you were counsellor, Law Wert had these same delays as the current law. He said, "The delay forced the development of new materials in record time." [[Applause]] [[Applause]] What are you telling us? Don't try to fool the neighborhood of Roundla. What you're trying to implement is a technical argument to conceal what is a political decision, which part of which refuses to guarantee the student's right to study the Bachelor of Arts. And the problem is not that it is shown that the king is naked, Mr. Rodríguez; the problem is that he remains naked. And even some Members of this House said a few days ago in this parliament: if there is a demand, this is an agreement that is perfectly in line with the will of the roundabouts. Well, it's not because Mr. Rodríguez's will says China nanas. [[Applause]] This is the problem we have on the table, gentlemen of the People's Party. This is the placard that the People's Party of this country has with public education. And that's what the People's Party of Roundup will have to explain to students, to all the teachers, to an entire educational community, which requires that their children, that the students, that the girls and boys of Roundup can study Bachelor of Arts wherever they want. Of course there's been studies. Look: IES Mendinho, forty-nine students, twenty-eight would be interested in studying the Bachelor's degree in Arts, nineteen would do it if he could implement it there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u139	If you want studies, do them and implement them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u140	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u141	...if they're not lying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u142	Thank you. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u143	Mr. Lourenzo, you asked me to go to the center of the matter. I'm going to go to the center of the matter: student? Yes. Is this the time? No, no, no, no. Why? I'm going to explain it, and if I explain it below, I might as well understand myself, because I also defend public employment and I don't have to scream. Look: we're processing the curricula, they're processing the new modalities of bachelor's degree, they're modifying the Bachelor's degree of Arts, which if there's only one there's going to be two different ones. And you're talking about data, I don't know where you got it from. The data I have given you are data that are in the Educational Inspection of the pre-demands that exist real. Another thing we're asking is, do you want to do this? Yes, of course. If you sign any question at any place in the locality, perhaps it has fourteen thousand companies, no doubt it has them. Now, is that serious? Do you, who is a teacher, honestly believe that such a decision can be made in a political way without a technical basis, without more? If they think so, it's obviously a different way of understanding politics, peak and pa; that peak is worth something, but then if there's no pa it's worth a little bit. With which, at the center, the summary: study? Yes. Is this the time? No, no, no, no. Why isn't this the time? Because we are in the process of adapting the new law, which will affect the Bachelors absolutely and that will modify the structure of the Bachelors of Arts, that if it is one there will be two: one, that is called, Performing Arts and another, Plastic Arts. Listen, listen! Yes, performing arts and plastic arts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's going to be! All right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! [[Murmurs.]] In any case, as it does, how it gives all the same and only in this case does its political perception of the matter, how it doesn't matter what it implies from the organizational perspective, from the professional perspective, etc., because it gives everything the same. [[Strong murmurers.]] If that's his vision, there's not much more to say. In any case, as I've already said, one thing is reality and another is desire. You're talking about desires. And I respect — I insist — the families that are listening, that are in this House. I respect your demands, absolutely, because they are very, very positive. Now, trying to move on your part that there's a political background here that goes against public education is, if I may, a real lowness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u144	Thank you, Counselor. [[Words are given from the guest gallery to the session.]] Please, I've already told you that this is not allowed in this Parliament. And besides, you, with what you just did, penalize the group that invited you. That's why I gave them that warning, and I think with all respect. You're our guest and that can't be done. So, please, now that you've finished the question, I ask that the House services accompany you so that you can leave the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Thank you, we're still on the agenda. Let's go back to the interrogations, which is the fourth point. Interpellation by Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other G.P. Members. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions of the Government of Galicia in relation to the implantation of the textile fibre factory of the multinational Lusa Others in the region of the Lusaean Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u145	Mrs. Otero has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u146	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Mr. Count. Let me also welcome the Mayor of Viveiro, the Mayor of Alfoz, the Mayor of Valadouro, the Mayor of Trabada and the Mayor of Foz — and the President of the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities — to the Mayor of Valadouro. Because, of course, they had to come to this House today, to this plea brought by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because you, Mr. Conde, you and Mr. Feijóo, do not reply to those letters that transfer them from the Navy City Council itself to have a meeting with the councillor himself or with the president of the Galician Union to work for others to install their new plant in the Navy region. And in view of the fact that you are President of the Galician Council, and you yourself today, the representatives of the Navy County have had to come to this interrogation to listen to what you want to move us today. I want to remind you, by putting it in place, what happened yesterday. The People's Parliamentary Group yesterday brought an initiative — which I will read from time to time — which is registered in January 2022 and which said: "...to give priority to the design process of the first textile fibre factory in Spain, because it is a great bet both from the economic and labour point of view and from the strategic point of view, since it would allow the production cycle of wood in Galicia to be closed, as well as its placement in the province of Lugo through its representation in the Impress society." Mr. Conde, this is what you brought yesterday to the People's Parliamentary Group, which, by the way, is the same proposal that you brought to the debate on the state of autonomy, Mr. Feijóo. We have proposed a transaction proposal since then to point out a little more, within the province of Lugo, and to bring it to the marine region. But that was the initiative that brought the People's Parliamentary Group to debate today. Look, Mr. Count, watch out. Our amendment said he would allow his placement in the Navy. And finally we came to a transaction that says that "the Council of Galicia favours its placement preferably in the region of the Navy" — that's on the basis of the amendment that this parliamentary group tabled — "and, if technical criteria do not guarantee the viability of this placement, in any case, in the province of Lugo." Well, I'm reading what happened yesterday, in case you don't know him, so you can't throw balloons out later. So yesterday the Socialist Parliamentary Group managed to get the People's Parliamentary Group and also the Galician Nationalist Block to support others to come to the Navy. That is what was achieved yesterday by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the pressure of the municipal representatives of the Marine Councils, the Socialist Party, also the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities and, in particular, its President, the Mayor of Foz. So yesterday, we managed to get the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block to back up others having to go to the Navy and now, Mr. Conde, it's time for the Galician Union. What are you going to do, Mr. Conde? Are you going to join that agreement by the Navy or will you continue in your ambiguity? I repeat, what the parliamentary agreement reached yesterday is that others have to come to our region, they have to come to the Navy. And if it wasn't, Mr. Conde, the Board will have to report, you will have to explain very, very well the reasons that prevent this placement from taking place in the Navy. You'll have to justify why others are not going to settle in the Navy. Don't hide, Mr. Count, I read you the deal we reached yesterday. They don't have to go through it from the benches of the People's Parliamentary Group. So, of course, we want to know today's opinion of the Galician Union. They don't hide, because you have the skills and the means for others to go to the Navy. And I repeat, they would contract and commit a serious irresponsibility if it hadn't come true. You, the Galician Union, have the competence to bring others to the Navy. You see I don't say a specific council, there are councils governed by all political colors. I'm telling the Navy. I therefore place the President of Galician Union and Mr. Count on his responsibility as President of Galician Union and as Counsellor of Galician Union to promote the installation of Others in our region, in the Navy. As you know, since October 2021 we've known the news and the possibility that Others would settle in the marine region — because they were looking for a placement for the new plant — the truth is that we always claimed that this plant would come to The Navy. And also the mayors of the People's Party of the Navy themselves, who also told the Galician Union to put all the meat on the roaster to get this placement in the Navy to be a reality. The truth is that the company is not alone in the search for this placement, Mr. Conde, since the Galician Union leads the Galician Impulse Consortium that makes up the Galician Union itself, Abanca, Reganosa and Sogama, and in which Others, of course, would be the industrial partner. By then, as I told you, they were working and working from the Navy district to make this placement in our neighborhood a reality. Not only now, Mr. Conde, so we have spoken so many times in this House about the serious industrial crisis in our region, but about the importance of the forest sector in our region, where nearly 70% of its surface is forest mass and where the largest area of eucalyptus production is found. Therefore, the Navy is leading in the forest sector, the Navy is counting on the raw material, but it has no industry that complements it and gives it that added value. So we have raw materials, but we don't have companies that give you that added value. As I said, the Marine mayors have already put to work, made themselves available, sent letters to the President of Galicia and Mr. Conde himself. I ask you, Mr. Conde, why did you not answer those letters, why you do not want them to receive them and how it is possible that until today the Marine Town Councils did not have the slightest news of the studies being conducted for the location at this location -- these studies that we are now getting to know by the press, although they say there is also a previous study -- how it is possible these municipalities did not have the slightest idea of these studies and also of the previous study that, as I said earlier, it seems that it has already been done, and how it is not possible for them to be able to collaborate with the company to seek this placement. I ask you, Mr. Conde: did you transfer the Council of Galicia to the company Other the availability of the Marine Townships so that this placement would be a reality in our region, in the Navy? I ask you if you moved this availability to work, as they told you in that letter that you did not get an answer. In that letter they told him that they were willing to work together with the Galician Union and the company itself to seek out others to settle in the Navy. And on the assumption that -- because we all know that projects are complex -- that along that journey, if you find evasive or awkward, of course, knowing them as none of their municipalities, because they could also put solutions on the table. I want you to answer me, Mr. Conde, if that information, if that availability of the Marine Town Councils, was transferred to the Others company. You also talk — and you will talk — about European funds, next generation funds. And I say that because at the second point of the People's Party initiative this was the issue. What I ask you to do is to break the commitment of the Government of Galicia, as we did yesterday from the People's Parliamentary Group, that Others come to the Navy and that they receive the Marine mayors, because it is the moment after yesterday that we begin this commitment from the People's Parliamentary Group. You work for others to settle in our neighborhood and then we'll work together so that these next generation funds can fund this project. I offered myself yesterday, I told Mrs. Candia that I was offering the work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Candia, I can't get engaged as a minister if I'm not. I offered him the work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to work together to bring these next generation funds. I'm asking you to make sure of the installation of Others in the Navy, to work for a good project, a solvent project, and then we'll all work everywhere to get these Next Generation funds to fund this project. But don't do the reverse, because the funds will depend on the project that is present and not where the factory is installed. What we want today, Mr. Conde, with this plea is to begin the commitment of the Greek Government to the Navy. Don't come now with the traps of the old one, hiding in those Next Generation backgrounds. Compromise with the Navy and then we'll all go together for those Next Generation funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u148	I ask you today is a commitment to the Navy. Yesterday we knew the change in position of the People's Parliamentary Group, which now for the first time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u150	... opts for the Navy as a placement, but we want to know who has the competences, that of the German Government. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u151	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero. I would like to thank, firstly, the presence of which I understand is a part of the representatives of the Marine Councils, and that the mayors, spokesmen and advisers themselves have the opportunity in this case to join, for the first time, the interest the Socialist Group shows in this project. It shows in some way that the Galician Union was right, that it was right when it was affixed by public-private collaboration as the engine of candidacy to the next generation European funds. That's why we're still working -- we've established it from the very first moment -- to open up a process of dialogue with business fabric and design together the future of Galicia and, therefore, projects that can transform our productive fabric. To this end, we have developed different instruments, such as the Tractors Project Unit — which is enabling us to design and collaborate in the design of the candidacy of the different productive sectors — the development of the Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia, giving priority, precisely, to initiatives that can be financed by European funds — and also to the creation itself — as Mrs Otero has moved from the Impress society, which is responsible for accelerating and consolidating new strategic industrial projects, also seeking the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of these strategic projects, indeed, is the factory of textile fibres of a sustainable nature, an ambitious project, a project that is being developed with all rigor and a solvent project — despite the doubts that the spokesperson himself and the Socialist Group itself moved in their text of the inquiry—. It's a project that is part of the Galician transformation pole driven by the Union with the help of Impulse society as well as the participation of experts. It is a project that ultimately adapts to the requirements of the Next Generation programme and that can allow to close a new wooden cycle in Galicia with an investment of EUR 800 million, with the capacity to generate 1,500 direct jobs and supply of raw materials the textile sector — a key, as you all know, to Galicia through the production of 200,000 tons per year of liocel recycling clothing and using wood from the Greek forests. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a project that provides a perfect response to Galicia's ability to lead a new industrial opportunity and to have an impact on the ecological transition — through the efficient use of a natural resource such as wood — in the digital transition — through the use of new technologies to close the productive cycle, and also on greater social and territorial cohesion — through the generation of employment and wealth in rural areas. They know that we have achieved, working together with the Impulse society, commitment to a company — in this case Others — so that they can develop the project to the end of the investment, and we hope that the interest in this project in Galicia — which now, for the first time, relies on the support of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, after the unanimous agreement adopted yesterday in the House — can also serve, Mrs Otero, so that the Government once confirms its involvement. It would be the best symptom that this factory can be part of the allocation of European funds. And I remind you that the initiative has already been presented to the executive, both to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism and to the Minister of Ecological Transition and Demographic Reto and to the first vice-president himself — when he asked the autonomous communities to deliver a more specific list of strategic projects. And unfortunately, Mrs. Otero, until today we haven't had any answers. Since the Government seems to be committed to presenting the PERTs in full electoral campaigns, I hope that it will be in a hurry to present an PERT that can enable this project to be developed, because you know, Mrs Otero, that in Galicia we do not have elections until 2024. As for the location of the factory — which you moved me — you know that the company is developing a technical study. Because we're talking about ensuring the project's own viability and therefore the decision necessarily has to be marked by environmental criteria and also by those resources that condition the project's viability, such as the need for fresh water itself. So we're talking about a business project that has to guarantee its viability and, from then on, logically identify the best location possible. And in spite of the exercise you've developed of "interpreting" yesterday's debate -- because what you came here to do here was to interpret it -- the unanimous agreement of the House has no doubt whatsoever that it will be assumed by the Council of Galicia. And, therefore, whenever we meet the requirements that are currently being evaluated, we will indeed move — like Junta de Galicia — that we are in favour of the project being carried out in the province of Lugo — and, more specifically, in the region of the Navy — if we can technically guarantee the viability of the project. It's a unanimous agreement that the Galician Union will take effect, as it cannot be otherwise. I hope, yes, that the Socialist Party in Galicia does not take on in this case the thesis of the Galician Nationalist Block on planned economy, because I am concerned that you want to be on the technical committee of a company and that, therefore, while they are developing studies, Mrs. Otero wants to know and participate in how a private company — not a public company, Mrs. Otero — develops with total professionalism and rigour the studies that must guarantee that technical viability. The clear company will logically transfer not only the location but also the reasons that lead to that location. Having said this, of course, we share the concern of the mayors -- all the mayors of the Navy, regardless of their political colour -- for the future of the marine industry. That is why I think we should not divert debates, and surely that future also passes, Mrs Otero — and I should take advantage of, because you come here talking about the Navy — for asking your Government for responsibility for having the direct responsibility of stopping San Cibrao basins and in this case Galicia has stopped producing primary aluminium. They don't think the arrival in the future of new projects to this region will relieve their government of responsibility for paralyzing aluminium production. And, therefore, we will continue to bet on the Navy, bet on the projects that are being implemented and therefore demand the reactivation of the tanks as soon as possible without having to wait for the year 2024. [[Applause]] And of course, Mrs Otero, we will also urge the Government — I hope it will join the Galician Union — to respond so that the new textile fibre factory in Galicia can be launched by supporting, through the different European funds, the development of this initiative. We have already made it clear what our predisposition is to work on both projects, to allow there to be a positive impact on their development and, therefore, so that the different funds can respond to those needs that you have in this case Galicia, Lugo and the Navy itself. So, I think, Mrs. Otero, in the replica you'll probably have a great opportunity to make sure that something has changed in the Socialist Party of Galicia. Welcome! So in addition to helping us effectively identify the location, they should help us not only to do so, but to focus on, Mrs Otero, that the Government complies with the agreement to establish support lines within the framework of the European Next Generation Funds for the development of this project as quickly as possible. Because you cannot come to this Parliament to desecrate — at least try — the commitment of the Galician Union and the Galician industry to promote a more competitive and innovative model, when you know perfectly well that in this case the problems of the Navy unfortunately pass through Madrid, they pass through the government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u153	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u154	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, what can be expected of you? I was going to take out the theme of Alcoa, the commitment of the People's Party to the Navy, which all the problems of the Navy have arrived since Pedro Sánchez arrived at the Moncloa... the truth is that you are very, very predictable. From here I repeat once again the maximum of the agreement reached by the workers and the Alcoa factory, which guaranteed those jobs. And of course there is the commitment of the Government of Spain to work so that these tanks can work — and if it can be before 1 January 2024, for much better. But it's very predictable, Mr. Count. [[Applause]] Always using arguments to throw balloons out! Today, what we bring here with this plea is that we demand a clear and serious commitment from the Council of Galicia. We demand a commitment and a very clear statement, Mr. Conde: Another for the Navy, yes, or others for the Navy, right? What is the position of the Galician Union? Because he spoke of the autonomous community, he spoke of the province of Lugo, and then at some point he came to speak of the marine region. But the truth is, I don't know if the rest of the lords and also our guests have made it clear what the position of the Galician Union is. I'll ask you again to tell me if Others for the Navy, yes, or Others for the Navy, no. Because — with all due respect, Mr Conde — how will I be confident, or how will we be confident, that the Council of Galicia will comply with the parliamentary agreements reached in this House? Man, Mr. Count, you laugh. Of course, he laughs, because the truth is he doesn't practically follow any agreement with those we have adopted in this House. That's why I'm asking you today to tell me if the Galician Union is going to work for others to settle in our neighborhood. [[Applause]] Look, you used to say at the beginning of your intervention that there was only one part here in the representation of the marine mayors. It's true, there are more mayors in the Navy. But he's also the president of the Marine Town Hall. And the Navy City Council is made up of mayors and mayors of all political colours. And you didn't read that letter they sent you, but in that letter, after a meeting, they decided among all the mayors and mayors to request that meeting. It was not in the individual capacity of the mayor of Foz, it was on behalf of all the mayors of the Navy that represents that commune of municipalities. But since you don't read the letters, as you don't receive the mayors and mayors, these things happen. You say I got to twist the deal we reached yesterday. I'll read to you again, Mr. Conde: "May you favour the Union's preferred placement in the marine region. And if technical criteria..."—logically, you were talking about technical criteria, we also saw it yesterday in that transaction—"...don't guarantee the viability of this placement, in any case in the province of Lugo." This is what we signed and woke up yesterday. Mr. Conde, I didn't turn the deal back for nothing yesterday. So, as I told you in my first speech, if Others do not finally come to The Navy, you will have a responsibility, the Greek Government will have a responsibility. No, because you yourself have just said that the German Government is committed to bringing forward the parliamentary agreement reached yesterday; therefore, if you fail to comply with that parliamentary agreement reached yesterday, you will have a responsibility. [[Mr. Conde López utters words that are not perceived.]] And they would have to explain not only to the mayors and mayors of the Navy but to the proximity of the Navy why having the raw material in our region and having a serious industrial crisis problem didn't work out and not put all the meat in the roaster by the Galician Union so others would come to our region. And it will be their responsibility because they have competence for it, because it is part of that society. So, Mr. Conde, don't come to hide and throw balloons out with the Next Generation funds, which, as I told Mrs. Candia yesterday, so badly, you shouldn't have done so badly the President of the Government, the Government of Spain, to be able to negotiate those Next Generation funds that allowed only in the year 2021 for Galicia to arrive 681 million—only in the year 2021!—. So they shouldn't have done it. So today what we're looking for is a guarantee from the Galician Union. Yesterday we achieved the support of the People's Parliamentary Group and today we want to know what the Galician Union is going to do. Are you going to add the Galician Union to that deal by the Navy or are you going to maintain those ambiguities? I ask you, Mr. Conde, is that here in the gallery in your reply tell me if Others will come to the Navy, yes or no? Because in his first turn throwing balloons out the truth is that he left me quite worried. And as you said, they were coming forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u156	...this Parliamentary agreement, therefore, if they do not carry it forward, will entail a serious irresponsibility and the blame for others not going to the Navy will be the Government of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u158	For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u159	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, I think I was quite clear. The Government, the Galician Union, fully assumes the unanimous agreement reached by the three political parties yesterday afternoon and we will therefore comply with that agreement. I don't think it's possible. From then on, if you understand that yesterday you didn't make a good intervention, or you would be prepared for another intervention, or you would be prepared to vote that you didn't, this is a different matter. But I should change the papers and probably update them. [[Murmurs.]] Yesterday there was indeed, Mrs Otero, a unanimous agreement by Parliament to which the Council of Galicia will give its development. What is clear is that the Socialist Party in Galicia does not want to talk about supporting this project. What you come here is to make noise about the location; but to support the project, no. Because, of course, we're not going to bother Madrid. We are not going to bother Madrid about the possible support that this project can have. Yes, let us be the spokesperson of the President of the Government on the good that is being done by the European Funds in the field of industrial policy, Mrs Otero. We're talking about industrial policy and industrial policy in the Navy. Do you know how many European funds — derived from the Next Generation Funds — have the Galician Union in order to develop its competences in industrial policy? Sky! Do you know how many Madrid has? He's got $16,000. [[Applause]] That is yes, since you, like me, come here to defend the Navy and the industrial situation of the Navy, the question is how can you explain -- if you argue that the Government announces a battery factory for Catalonia with these 16. billion euros even before opening the deadline for the admission of applications from the PERTE -- that you cannot request help lines for a tractor project in a strategic sector in our territory. Can you explain why the Government grants EUR 57 million directly to the Extreme without any competition and with direct allocation? Why didn't that center go to the Navy? That's the question. Did you ask Pedro Sanchez? Probably not because you don't dare, you won't bother! Mrs Otero, I do not think that Parliament can try to divert attention from what really matters. And what really matters to the Navy right now is that, in fact, this project can be developed, that this project can have the support of European funds — because right now there is no response from your government, and that you don't even appoint to bother the Socialist Party -- and therefore work together precisely so that the project can be developed with all guarantees. Nor should you come here trying to divert attention from the failure of the Socialist Party in paralyzing the plants of San Cibrao, because that is also industrial policy and that is employment for all the Councils of the Navy, Mrs Otero. So I understand that this is probably a problem for you to really defend the Navy and defend employment in the Navy. But we'll keep working for the Navy. We will continue to demand that the Government commit itself to the production of primary aluminum in the Navy and we will demand, indeed, that this project may have all the help. And, as I said to you, since the Galician Union we will comply with the agreement of this Parliament — agreed unanimously — and we will continue to ask that the textile fibre plant be installed in the province of Lugo with the confidence that the technical studies of Others will actually allow this conclusion — which is technically viable — as was the agreement adopted in Parliament. From that point on, if you understand that you didn't do a good intervention yesterday and wanted to come here today, because it's probably a matter of strategy, because you need, like college students, two calls. [[Murmurs.]] Well, listen, neither did you approve of this either, Mrs. Otero, nor did you approve of it. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Navy has the commitment of the Galician Union to develop projects that allow this transformation, it has the commitment of the Galician Union to develop the unanimous agreement of Parliament, and it also has the commitment of the Galician Union, Mrs. Otero, to demand that, after the Government's management of paralyzing the Alcoa basins, these tanks can really be reactivated so that all marine mayors and all marine workers have a future, which the Socialist Party is now denying to the Navy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u161	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the second of the interpelerations. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece regarding the execution of the State nearing funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u162	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Today, the Socialists are asking the Government of the Council of Galicia to find out what is the management that the Government of Greece has made of the funds it has transferred to the Government of the State headed by President Pedro Sánchez. Mr Feijóo and his government, of which you are a party, have, from the same moment of decreeing the state of alarm by the coward-19 in March 2020, launched a frontal attack on any proposal, resolution or agreement that came from the state. You've been in for almost two years where you didn't care that you could tumble the stability of our country. Little or nothing did they care about the thousands of jobs that could be destroyed. They didn't care about the most vulnerable families. The obsession of Feijóo — the faithful follower of Ayusism — was to confront President Sánchez's government, and once again became the most advanced student of the "no". You were permanently installed in the "no" to agree on the necessary health measures. You have been and are still installed in the "no" so that European funds can reach Spain and, therefore, arrive in Galicia. You tried by all means, voting against the Congress of Members and repeatedly speaking ill of our country, for the European Union to doubt and refuse to transfer European funds, a EUR 140 billion fund which, if you were to go, would not reach our country, EUR 140 billion absolutely necessary for the recovery and transformation of our country, EUR 14 billion of which, if it were for you, would not reach a single cent, neither to businesses nor to self-employed and self-employed. Look, from the European Union they had to confirm to three times that the government of Pedro Sánchez was doing well in managing European funds. See the news from the newspapers during those days, such as the 3rd of the 12th of 2021: "Spain, the first country of the European Union to receive European recovery funds", which highlights our country's progress in the implementation of the Next Generation-EU plan with a first payment of 10,000 euros. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows documents with reference to news.]] But I continue, Counsellor: "The President of the European Commission congratulates Sánchez on Spain's compliance with the funds plan," "Brussels calls on Pablo Casado to cease in his intentions to go to the courts for the distribution of European funds," "Married resumes from Brussels his offensive against the distribution of European funds" — that is two days ago nothing more — and "The PP is the only party in the opposition in the European Union who criticizes the management of European funds". Finally, Counsellor, I would like, the Socialists would like us, that you could say here at parliamentary headquarters whether you agree with the confrontational position and the "no" of the People's Party and the Greek Government. Do you agree to question the solvency of our country? Tell us, Counselor. Do you agree that you can lose 140 billion euros to Spain, and therefore to Galicia? Because the truth is that it turns out a paradox that you oppose the European Union's funds and at the same time demand that these funds arrive in Galicia. The two things are not possible and the entire Government of Galicia is aware of this circumstance. Or they agree, they support and work to get out together with this crisis, or they clearly admit that you put the partisan strategy into the recovery and transformation of our country for the benefit of all citizenship. [[Applause]] Mrs. Lorezana, there are extraordinary situations in which the well-being of the citizenry must be dominated, where there must be a sense of country. And those of us who dedicate ourselves to politics should show heights of vision and responsibility knowing that this unprecedented pandemic has undermined the economic and social foundations of the world. Look, Counsellor, the Government of the State, the government of Pedro Sánchez, has worked from the very first moment to raise funds, develop and implement a powerful plan to shock economic and labor measures — initially estimated at about 200 million euros — to protect businesses, to protect self-employed people — who for the first time in a crisis had coverage of the Government of Spain in the face of the paralysis of their activity or the decline of their incomes. There have also been measures to protect workers and workers through ERTE, from the implantation of telework, from the recuperable paid permit, from the improvement of the protection of decontinuous fixeds and workers with temporary contract, from the implementation of measures for the household employees, but also with the approval of the minimum vital income, also with the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage, the reform of the pension system to return purchasing power to pensioners and also with the approval of the labour reform. Meanwhile, the presidents and presidents of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, and orchestrated by that president Ayuso, have demonstrated this aidism by torpedoing, mocking, making noise and installing in the "no". The latest demonstrations of the despicable performance of the People's Party have been held these days at the Congress of Deputies with the approval of labour reform, in which their party voted against and celebrated that reform did not come out. Although, fortunately, he finally got out of the way. And they voted against knowing that they are rights that are recovered for workers and workers, that there is agreement with the sectors — both trade unions and employers — and that this reform is necessary to bring European funds to Spain and, therefore, Galicia. What were you celebrating, Counselor? Did they celebrate once again that they could not reach the European funds or celebrate that the workers and workers in this country did not recover part of the rights that were cancelled by the government of "eme dot" Rajoy? Well, look, the Government of the State is working while the President of the Council of Galicia uses his efforts to confront by blaming his evil management for the councils, the deputies or the government of the State. Of course, this is simply in those administrations where the People's Party does not rule, because it does value the work of the House of Ourenses — an example of nepotism and daring in which objective criteria do not exist, and they are shameful in their management. So look, Counselor, most of the Greeks and the Greeks voted to manage, cooperate and get Galicia out of this health, economic and social crisis. Because, look, you won't deny the economic support of the government of Pedro Sánchez to Galicia to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, will you? They didn't banish him, did they? I am going to give you a report on the accountability of the Government of Spain — you have left it here to the President — of December 2021 — of the Government of Spain, not of the Ministry, not of the Socialist Party, so that you can get it here and what you can see with data the economic approaches transferred to Galicia. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo gives a document to Mr. President Calvo Pouso.]] It's a document in which the measures for these two years, which add up to Galicia about 5,000 million euros, so it's the most investor government in history for our community. Among these measures which are included are a few — obviously, it does not give me any more time, but as far as transparency is concerned — I mean. See: EUR 824 million in an extraordinary fund to cushion the effects of the crisis on regional finances; more than EUR 662 million for the Greeks and the Greeks who benefited from the extension of the ERT; almost EUR 500 million for extraordinary benefits for workers and self-employed workers whose activity has been affected since the start of the pandemic; almost EUR 6 million for the extraordinary subsidy for 4,660 perceivers and perceptions of the Greeks by exhausting their unemployment benefit during the first state of the alarm; EUR 9.4 million for 4,609 Greeks and Galicians with contract made a disruption to the extraordinary measures taken in different modalities; 37.664 companies obtained losses through the ICO-19 line; EUR 215.8 million for active employment policies; 36,892 persons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u165	...who received the minimum living income or 769 pensioners who saw their pensions revalued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u167	And, of course, 234 million euros that were allocated in this first quarter for direct aid to self-employed and self-employed people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u169	...and companies and economic sectors most affected by the pandemic. And you in the previous plenary left us the doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u170	Thank you very much. Time's up. He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u171	...of the 70 million euros that will not be able to execute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u172	Thank you very much. You have the floor to Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u173	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez, less bad than at the end of her speech, and already turning off the microphones, has given her time to talk a second about what you're asking me today. Because the interpellation you put in writing has five questions that refer exactly to all the data you just said I gave in the previous control session. So I'm grateful that you know, because I had the feeling that I came to talk about exactly the same thing I talked about two weeks ago. But, well, you just expanded a lot and I don't know if you're going to give me time to answer about all the economic policy and labour policy that runs the Sánchez government throughout the pandemic. Because I'm frankly amazed, amazed. Tell me about the background hide — put here at the written exhibition — for education and health. I thought we were here to talk about work. It speaks of the decree of the alarm state and the regulation made of the ERTE as if it were an extraordinary thing. And he also says that this government at all times opposed the government of Sánchez. That's radically uncertain. And so much that he likes the press and so much that he pulls out the press clippings, he's looking for my statements on the management of the Ministry of Labour in relation to the ERTE, because he's not going to find any criticism about this. And I also tell him he didn't do anything too much. That is all that all the European States have done: regulate the ERAs with one name or another! And now it seems that what is really an absolutely ordinary matter, which is what has to do a government of the nation, is extraordinary. The government of Sánchez has regulated the ERTEs, some ERTEs who, by the way, had to deal with each autonomous community. 36,000 files were processed in the Autonomous Community of Galicia by the Employment Council, by the Employment Officers, in time and in form. It has been advancing money — as you well know — because it has not given time to deal with the ministries — which I am not critical of because it was an extraordinary situation, nor have I ever criticized it. Now, don't miss the truth, because that's not the case. Then he talks of 200,000 euros in general in a plan that put in place the Government of the State to help at the time of such... and within these 200,000 euros, you put the telework — which seems to be the government of Sánchez that pays for telework — and you put the increase of 15 euros from the minimum interprofessional wage — which seems to pay the government of Sánchez too. I don't believe it. I just don't believe it! He also speaks of the minimum vital income in his intercession as an absolute novelty. In Galicia there has been Risga for 30 years, since 1990. Well, in the middle of all this, it now expands and talks about labour reform. If you want, we're talking about work reform another day, because I don't have time now, obviously. Now, to tell me that the text of the labour reform is agreed... what can't be done is that in a standard that has an ordinary nature, and that must be processed as a project, as a bill, if an agreement is adopted and given to parliamentary groups. And, above all, when this is an absolute failure, a Member's mistake is seen as a success for the Government to adopt that rule. We talk about work reform whenever we want. [[Murmurs.]] It speaks of the paralysis of European funds by the Government of Galicia. I know that report. I didn't see it, but I guess it's the same. That report speaks of the distribution and proportion of funds reached to the Autonomous Community of Galicia in respect of those which have been distributed. Now, we're not talking at any time about the funds that were shared. Leaving aside the rescue plans — which we are now talking about, and in which Galicia received less than it belonged — Galicia always receives between 6 and 8% — I have nothing to say, and so I say at the sectoral conferences. Now, the Ministry of Labour — which is my responsibility — exists between the budget of the year 2021 and the budget of the year 2022 — would check it out, since they talked so much today in the morning of the budgets, let me check it — 1,800 million euros of the Mechanism of Recovery and Resilience. Of these 1,800 million euros, 800 have not been distributed to autonomous communities and are funds that are intended for active employment policies. The president of the Union told him today: the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government establish very clear competences, and competences in active employment policies are legally assumed by all autonomous communities. Galicia is competent in active employment policies, so there are EUR 800 million that is using the Ministry to make policy. And do you know how it justifies the fact that you can keep these 800 million euros? By saying that it gives training to workers, for example, that they are in ERTE and whose companies have work centers in more than one autonomous community. That is, the workers in ERTE who are in Galicia in a company that does not have a seat in another autonomous community, for example, cannot participate in that training. It's 800 million euros that are undistributed! This isn't about making any kind of noise. If I wanted to make noise, I would have filed an appeal in December before the Supreme Court or before the Constitutional Court — any of the two avenues — valid. I haven't done it yet. So please don't say that Ayuso's politics is copied here, because that's not the case. And if I wanted to do that, the appeal would be presented. I'm still waiting for them to answer me and explain to me what's going on with these 800 million euros. There's no paralysis of remittances here, the funds are already in the Ministry. What am I harming the Greeks by asking me to be given the funds that correspond to us? The funds are already in Spain. I want them to get to Galicia. And you should want them to get to Galicia, I say! Or do you want them to stay in the ministry because the Ministry is socialist? It just doesn't make any sense what you're proposing! You're twisting what's being demanded. He's twisting what's being demanded! [[Applause]] So, please take care of Galicia, not the Socialist Party or Vice President Calvin, who is doing what he's doing here today. [[Applause]] He asks for the III and the IV rescue plan. That's what I think was the interpellation you were doing. In particular, he didn't say it because he didn't give it time before all the questions aside from the interpellation that I couldn't prepare and that I'm having to say here, because he's expanding on what he asked. But well... I was asking which body we had planned to negotiate rescue plans and establish the management of these 234 million euros. I think of this, of how rescue plans were made, I noticed a thousand times here too. I think yes, which I have many times noticed how we make rescue plans, all of them, autonomic funds and those that are done with the Ministry's funds. But I would like to say again: in social dialogue, with specific tables on these plans, in the self-employed working table and in tables with particularly affected sectors. So I will take note only of the meetings we had in the Social Dialogue Bureau, but at which I participated — there are many more but only those I participated as advisor — on November 4, the draft draft of the First Rescue Plan is presented and the bases are negotiated; on November 12 we continue with the meetings; on January 12, 2021, the balance sheet of the First Rescue Plan, and we present to the trade unions and businessmen the draft of the second plan; on January 26 we move forward in the design of the second plan; on February 2, a new meeting to close the final proposal for this plan; on March 22, draft of the Third Rescue Plan; on April 26 and May 6 we continue to move forward in the design of this plan; on July 8 we join in order to examine the state of the third plan and to evaluate the proposals for amendments; and on October 5, we will meet again to address the Fourth Rescue Plan. It's 10 meetings. And there are 15 more meetings with the autonomy on the same themes -- with the three autonomous associations that form part of the table -- on September 29, 2020; and in 2021, on January 13, 20, 22, and 26, on February 1, March 22, April 26, May 6 and 10, June 14, July 8, October 6, and December 27, and last February 2 was to account for what I told Parliament two weeks ago, the results. This must be added to meetings with representatives of the sectors most affected by the vault, such as hospitality and tourism. It's 25 meetings I attended directly too, and in most cases accompanied by the vice president. 2020: days 16, 19, 23, 26 and 30 November; 7 and 15 December. 2021: days 13, 22, 25, 27 and 29 January; 8, 15 and 24 February; 9, 15 and 23 March; 8 April; 11 May; 7 and 15 June and 28 December. And 2022: January 31st. To this we add meetings with sectors such as trade, fair attractions, children's leisure and orchestras, among others. And you ask me what was the organ we had to talk about. I would ask which organ did Mrs Calvin have to dialogue that supposed rescue plan for the self-employed and small businesses. I would really like to know what Mrs Calvin's dialogue was. [[Applause]] And already to finish -- because the other questions you're asking are already said in your own interpellation and then I don't know what you're asking -- asks how many funds the Government of Galicia received for self-employed and self-employed people and businesses. It was 234.5 million euros, you say. What was the execution? I said it in the past, 70%. For the remaining 30% there are sufficient applications, two billion euros in requests. We can't pay them for the requirements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u175	...who are in the State Government. I'm done, president. And nothing else. How many funds did Galicia use? For only the Employment Council, funds from the Employment Council, were 182 million — 80,000 applications paid in six months. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u176	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u177	Counsellor, precisely because we have seen Galicia and because we are concerned, first of all, we have raised this question; and secondly, what we ask of the Government of Galicia is collaboration in the face of confrontation, collaboration to work together for those people who need those money coming from the state, or from European funds, that they come to their end and therefore be the beneficiaries who receive that money. But that's not the attitude of the Galician Union, that's not the attitude of the Galician Union, namely President Feijóo, during these two years of pandemic. It was continuously confrontational. [[Applause]] And besides, you tell me that you've come to this Parliament several times. Well, I'm sorry, but it's just that you, as a member of the Government, will have to come as often as we consider it necessary, within a normal basis, to realize what we put forward by the various parliamentary groups. I understand that's part of your job, too. Well, therefore, we're not considering anything that's weird, the truth. And you're talking about the fact that they won't get the money from self-employed and self-employed people and companies that can benefit. But, look, 70% has arrived, right? 70% of these 234 million euros have come from the state. So what we're asking is, what is the Government going to do so that it won't lose those 70 million euros? Will you dialogue or will you continue against the state? So what we're asking you to do is to manage to get these 70 million euros to the potential beneficiaries, which is what they're for. And, look, Counselor, the truth is, I have to use data, continue using data, since you're the Employment Advisor. And you know that employment in this country, in Galicia, during the years he's been ruling Nuñez Feijóo wasn't a priority. We have the latest data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics of the last EPA, referred to in the fourth quarter of 2021. And I don't want you to be like Mr Feijóo for a moment, to doubt that data, because the IGE, as far as I know, depends on the body of the Autonomous Community itself and, therefore, let's say that they won't be controversial. Well, look, that EPA data tells us that while 840,000 jobs were created in Spain in one year -- and it goes beyond prepandemia with a 4.35% increase for the state as a whole -- in Galicia we have a 0.96% increase. It is the third worst evolution of all autonomous communities, including autonomous cities — only behind Murcia and Ceuta. And we still have 50,900 people employed less than in the same quarter of 2009. Between October and December 2021, 21,200 jobs were destroyed in Galicia. I mean, about 230 jobs a day. And if we look at the number of unemployed, exactly the same thing happens, Counselor. In Galicia, in the fourth quarter of 2021 compared to the same quarter of the previous year, it decreased by 5.3%. But it's only in the state that the download is 16.56%. That is, the number of unemployed in Galicia is down by 11.3% less than it is in the rest of the state. Counsellor, if we frame this data taking into account the loss of active population since the government Feijóo on the Board of Galicia, we have to lose in our country, from the fourth quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2021, 83,400 active people, 83,400 less people; and 27,000 people under 40 years of age. Therefore, to see, Counselor, I believe that what they have to do is put all means at their disposal to bring this situation back once and for all. In addition, look, if we look at the budget execution data for the last three years, I suppose they won't be doubted either, as the President of the Galician Council said a moment ago before a question from our parliamentary spokesman, who doubts even the data that you, the German Government, are making it easier for us. So, one out of two, or you're lying to us or you're actually the ones who lie to you when you use the data when you leave this gallery. Well, look, in 2019 he left his counseling unexecuted 135 million euros. By 2020, in the pandemic year, he failed to implement his advice more than 135 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u179	And in 2021 -- it's true that they're data from the third quarter, and we hope that this last quarter will improve -- they don't run more than 519 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u181	So we're talking about 790 million euros without running in three years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u183	...from your advice, which they must have come to get the job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u185	...it wasn't a problem and I didn't have the data that just appeared published...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u186	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u187	...in the fourth quarter of 2021 EPA.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u188	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u189	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u190	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u191	Mrs. Rodríguez, it's really hard to follow her, eh! Because it's capable of taking out fifteen subjects in five minutes that have nothing to do with it, frankly, and that are worthy of a budget appearance, but let's go... yes, yes, yes, I don't know that you have to see the execution of employment funds, but we're talking about all of them... yes, yes, we're talking about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This seems to be what you ask a government to collaborate in the face of confrontation. I believe that what I said in the full past, what I asked for — besides asking for it, of course, the political force of the People's Party, also the other forces of Parliament — was that they supported Galicia in that collaboration of which you are speaking by asking them to stay in Galicia and not send back those millions of euros — in the case of Galicia that 30%, which are sixty million euros — of the Rescue Plan. I sent, I did not confront, I sent letters — and so I said — to Vice President Calvin and the Minister of Fairy, to Mrs Montero, to specifically request this, and asking him again — I don't know why number of times — which would be the criteria to be able to spend — in Galicia and I think in the other autonomous communities — and to reach the self-employed and reach the companies that money. And you ask me what I'm going to do! I just have to return that money! You say -- I don't have it there in the interpellation -- that it's because they've extended by a royal decree law until June so they can spend money on self-employed people. But you're serious? You read it? Is that a mistake? Do you know what the state did there? Prorogate the return. December 31 is the deadline for spending on self-government. So, what kind of demagogy is that which was extended by a royal decree in June? No, I have to return the money in June, and I have nothing else to do. I can't afford a euro anymore, because it's illegal. So what do you want me to do? You'll have to do it with your party in the government of Sanchez. Don't you have to? You talk to them, I ask you here. [[Applause]] You talk. I'm asking for that collaboration. I can't do anything else. And ask me! It's just that it's really something...! They say that the Government of Galicia, that Mr. Feijóo, was confronted with the Government of Sánchez. But do you know any European state where the president of the nation delegate the health responsibility to the president, for example, of a region, in France, of a Länder in Germany...? Do you realize that we have reached such an extreme that we end up regulating the pandemic by the judiciary? [[Murmurs.]] Do you know a president who had such a loss of functions in the greatest emergency situation that Spain had? [[Applause]] And they say the government Feijóo has confronted the government of Sánchez! The government of Feijóo has carried out its work in the most loyal way possible, taking into account the situation of the government that exists in Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u192	Silence! Silence! When you... excuse me, Counselor... Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u193	Then please don't have the face to mark the government of Feijóo as a government of confrontation, because it never was. He's a loyal government, he's a government that talks, and he doesn't look like Mrs. Ayuso's government at all. So don't often say something that's a lie to see if, in the end, it's true, because that's not so. [[Applause]] Neither the Government of Feijóo nor any of his advisers are characterized by confrontation. But one thing is that and another is that they take our hair, because all of us are paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, and what we're not going to consent, to avoid confrontation, is to let them take our hair. Where are those 800 million from the Ministry of Labour that we have to receive the different autonomous communities, the Greeks and the Greeks, in the part we belong to? [[Applause]] Where are they? You speak in Madrid. Let's see... He speaks with total demagogy that my duty is to come to the control sessions. Man, of course it is! I just didn't say anything else. It's demagogy after demagogy! I'm the only one who said they had a lot of things to ask me about, but it turns out he asks me about the very thing I saw to answer in the previous control session. So, honestly, when I read the interpellation, the first thing I thought was that you didn't know my question and that little disrespect! That's what I thought. Now I see this is a way to drop another lot of subjects that you didn't expose in your written interpellation to get them out here to see if I had no data and couldn't answer. I'm guessing that because it has nothing to do with what you've interpelted with everything you're getting out of here. With regard to the execution of funds by the Employment Council, if you know what kind of budget execution we have in the Employment Council, you will know that 80 percent are European funds, finalist funds, with which execution must be measured in commitments. Since many years ago -- I don't have the data here -- the job execution is around 80 percent; it's one of the highest in all of Spain -- and it's data -- I don't know what data they're giving you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u194	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u195	But they have to be able to interpret them! They have to be able to interpret them. [[Interruptions.]] You're looking at the payment phases, and the payment phases in a public budget only need to be seen with respect to your own funds. [[Murmurs.]] You have to know how to execute it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u196	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u197	Implementation of the year 2022, budget of the Employment Council of 300 million euros. There are over a hundred million euros that are currently activated, in aid orders. It's more than a third of the budget, the late January 2022 blow. Well, I'm done, and I'm done. Like you said, collaboration. I really ask you to intervene in the Ministry, to intervene in the Economic Vice-Presidentship and to ask those millions of euros that we have to return to Galicia right now, like the rest of the communities -- over two billion people who are going to receive the Ministry again -- they return to self-government, they go back to business and they don't return to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u198	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Ana Pontón Mondelo's appeal and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the political policy of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u199	Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Vice President. Look, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have once again insisted on this issue which is so important to this country, and I have to tell you, Mr. Vice-President, that the consistency of the People's Party's wind model is like a castle of nymphs; it has no least consistency, Mr. Conde. And the more time it takes, the more this situation is evidenced. [[Applause]] They're absolutely falling apart all over the place. And, look, Galicia lives today, precisely in the way you apply wind development, one of its main problems, a problem that, we insist, is economic, environmental and is also social and democratic control, and that's very serious. This triple problem is quite true that it has a triple responsibility: first of all, the electric lobby, a series of large electrical firms that are doing in this context is taking advantage of the energy transition's alibi to reposition themselves and secure their multimillionaire revenues. Secondly, of course, the central government also has a responsibility, as long as it legislates to maintain that role of Galicia as a supplier of energy, no matter what the price to be paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, simply to have a deal with that electric lobby to which soon the positions of the People's Party and the Socialist Party go. But thirdly, the main ones responsible for the problems in Galicia are you, Mr. Conde, the Galician People's Party, because you could do things differently, but you decide to be part of the problem, an active part of the problem, and legislate to favor that this problem not only perpetuates, but it increases. And so, because we are seeing a boom that is unsustainable from the north to the south of the country and that is uniquely undemocratic. And, look, you are not innocent, Mr. Vice-President, because they use self-government instead of defending the interests of the country, precisely, to put a great red carpet for this model to the great service of the big electricians, and that without seeking the slightest balance between industry, between the environment and society. And they're not innocent, because they legislate to favor it just no matter who falls. They act as if the natural resource, our wind, geography, was directly a property of the People's Party to privatize, as they have done with other resources, such as water. The problem, basically, is that you use that absolute majority that you have to legislate, to legalize those Iberdrola hugs. That is having results in our country, Mr Vice-President, and that is what explains that you have been driving ten reforms of the Law of the wind sector -- yes, the last in the Budgets Act that came into force just a month ago -- But it hasn't been a month yet, and you've announced reform number eleven. You are absolutely insatiable! There will be eleven reforms, which accumulate more than 60 changes, and of course, this is neither legal certainty nor anything like it. Basically, what they're about to be reformed by the cover, trying to get nobody to know and there's no social reaction. [[Applause]] That's what they're trying to do, and that's what explains that they always use other laws to reform the law of the wind sector instead of doing what would be rational and democratic, which is to address an integral reform and also address an update of the wind sector plan. But you don't do it primarily for two objectives: firstly, to favor the fragmentation that companies are developing; and secondly, to avoid the current characteristics of these technologies, which have increased their power, which have increased in size, with today's environmental awareness, with new needs, which are not the same as in 1995, you know that there would have to be more areas of exclusion. So you avoid having a country debate on this issue to avoid that. That's why they also paralysed the Natura Network, as it was evident yesterday, black on white, in the debate between my colleague Bará and counsellor Vázquez, where, in addition, he was unable to explain why the antidemocratic aspect in which you are installed even causes them to get up from the participation forums where collectives are asking to debate what is happening. [[Applause]] In any case, today we want to focus, Mr. Conde, on the permanent legislative fraud in which you live, which basically seeks a policy of consummated facts. This is something we have warned in this House again and again since the opposition, which has warned social groups of all kinds, that has warned the Galician Council of Culture, that the Galician Wind Observatory, which warns the mountain communities, who have warned municipalities from all over the country — including the People's Party — and that even warns the employer. Because, for example, the last moratorium they applied — this pseudomoratory — is of course the finger, because you enable your Board of Directors to make exceptions. So, here's the absolute innovation. We couldn't afford to have you installed in green capitalism, which we now have a new version, which is green and cacical capitalism, in the purest style of Deputation of Ourense. [[Applause]] And, look, this is so loud that there's no longer a social unanimity in which we're describing, is that justice itself fails in this sense that I'm explaining. And, look, we don't even take the equator of the legislation and I can tell you today about Sasdonigas, we can talk about the Iribio, or we can talk about the last sentence of Corme. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos shows photographs.]] Look, in Sasdonigas it became clear that the Board is a coniferous and active part of the fragmentation processes of the large wind projects coming to Galicia. In the Iribio it became clear that you didn't hear that there were environmental impact statements according to the time and needs of the moment. And now, in this judgment of Corme, as we see more things, we see more evidence, Mr. Count. I want to point out three where you focus this sentence. The first is that, of course, repotentigations are not harmless, they are a resource that in some cases can benefit the territory, but they also have an impact that needs to be assessed and measured. Secondly, Mr. Conde, what it does is to put black on white what we've been reporting for a long time, which is that you've been working on shortening deadlines over the assumptionable, not only from a democratic and moral point of view, but now even demonstrating by your own self-reliance against Community law, which there are no legal arguments — and, I insist, not moral and democratic control — to reduce deadlines from 30 to 15 days in proceedings which are incarnated in a process of authorization of an wind park, which you know has an average in this country of six years. So the question is, if in a six-year process we're so interested in removing 15 days of public participation, won't it be because what they want is to rob citizenship of space and so you don't know what it's doing? [[Applause]] Thirdly, we wanted to insist that the sentence also mentions — in a way, in addition to very concrete — these processes of multiple and simultaneous processing, which is to steal a lot of neighbors to be able to consult in time and form all the reports to really know what the scope of the problem is, what is the scope of the project. And this abounds in what was already pointed out in the report of the Galeg Culture Council last December, which you don't want to hear either, which is that there is no real participation by which people can know -- owners, owners, affected, etc. -- what we're talking about and what are the conditions of the projects that are going to be installed. In short, Mr. Conde, this new judgment of Corme repotencing what he does is to put his wind policy on the rock again; that's what this sentence is doing, and after it will surely come many more. Therefore, Mr Conde, of course, what you are proving is that this is the antithesis of what should be a democratic procedure, it is proving that complaints of lack of transparency by the collectives were indeed correct. And this, of course, we think it has to have consequences and it has to have a reaction on the part of the Greek Government that it is not to keep knocking on the chest and saying, "What do we do well, we're going to go on like this." Because that is, of course, the opposite of what they should do. And, look, first of all, we think they have to rectify, that this has to lead to an immediate change of the legal framework; immediately, at least, to ensure broad public exposure processes, which is the least you have to start doing. And that, of course, we understand that it would have to be accompanied, in addition, by reinforcement pathways and guarantees for neighbouring; issues we have proposed, such as a specific workshop on the brink of the Inega, issues such as making the Greek wind register a useful tool, etc. So, Mr. Conde, I wanted to ask you today if you assume that the current legal framework has to be modified in this sense and you have to be derogated to push a new one. Secondly, we insist that this also has to have an immediate consequence, because there are many parks that are in a situation similar to what this sentence reflects. But what happens? In Corme, in Sasdonigas, in Iribio, justice comes late, when the impact and damage are done. So we appeal to your responsibility, to which you openly say here what you're going to do: will you open wider deadlines for public exposure? Are you going to do some kind of cautious paralysis of projects that are unlikely to be in the same condition? What are you going to do, Mr. Conde? And finally — and no less important —, of course, sentence after sentence, someone will have to assume some kind of political responsibility on the board of Galicia. These three parks were dealt with with by the former director general of Minas — one day we will know why he was urged to leave office — but of course that responsibility is not enough. Someone from your department, perhaps yourself, should assume some kind of responsibility, Mr. Count. Or do you think you're still receiving reports, judgments, arguments of all kinds on all sides and following as if nothing, not assuming any political responsibility and not making any changes? We, of course, demand that you assume some responsibility, and therefore, Mr. Conde, I hope you will do so in your intervention. We also hope that they will abandon this wind despotism where they are installed and start a correction from now on, for the sake of this country, before this outcome is too late. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To answer this question, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Presas, I am delighted that you bring here permanently the falacities of the Galego Nationalist Block when you want to talk about the wind sector, because it is an opportunity, simply, for the Government to be able to transfer with transparency and with rigour what policy we are actually developing. As always, the Galego Nationalist Block tries to make partial interpretations of the various initiatives that are developed simply in the spirit of confusion and spirit — which is the only one that seeks the Galego Nationalist Block — of blocking the development of a sector, although this has a cost of opportunity in terms of employment, in terms of wealth and also in terms of future for our country. [[Murmurs.]] You're always talking about the wind model of the PP. Of course we have a model; we have a perfectly well-known model, perfectly guaranteed and perfectly planned to ensure that development is actually ordered. So far we know the wind model of the Galego Nationalist Block, because they haven't changed it, which I know; if they've changed it, it's good to know it. But his model — I remind you — was put into practice in the Bipartite, and I remind you that three contests have been cancelled by the courts. And I also remind you that it is surely your best service sheet. Surely the block has a bad conscience -- I understand it -- so he wanted to do it, because of the outcome he wanted to develop in Galicia in the wind sector. I remind you of what President Emilio Pérez Touriño — Leo — said to him: "They did an wind competition that did not offer guarantees from the perspective of land management, environmental sustainability and economic viability of the projects accompanying the offers." This is the best summary of your model. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, legitimacy of the Galician Nationalist Block to speak of wind, none. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, you know perfectly well that it is roundly false that there is no kind of debate about environmental and technical guarantees in wind development in Galicia. All projects that can be authorized include - all! - with positive environmental impact declarations and all relevant sectoral reports. Trying to question this is just an exercise of demagogy and trying to confuse, which is what you come here every time you want to talk about the wind sector. Mrs. Presas, it is loudly false that the debate is about the legal security of the projects being processed. And I remind you that the Supreme Court itself has at various times ratified the legal framework of the wind sector in Galicia. So it should be — I believe — honestly, a little more prudent, to speak with a little more rigour in your statements, to avoid, of course, giving rise to fear of the erroneous and ill-intended interpretations that you transfer in this Parliament and also trying to send misleading messages to investors themselves. Because, Mrs. Presas, people's vows and trust cannot be achieved with permanent manipulations and lies, as the Galician Nationalist Block does. Actually, we all know that you have only one goal, which is to paralyze the development of renewables in Galicia. In a decarbonization context, where we all have the commitment to zero emissions in the year 2050, where there is a clear objective, which is that the electric price that families and industries have to bear can be reduced, you are simply having a negative and inconsistent position with our country. You're boycotting them all permanently and each project; they don't care, they all do. There's not a single project that you don't try to boycott, regardless of whether it has an impact on hundreds of jobs and hundreds of incomes, also on municipalities and landowners themselves. Unfortunately, we see how the energy policy of the government that you are supporting is assuming recurrent increases in the electric price and yet they are unable to facilitate and help so Galicia can continue to develop renewable energy. What I'm sorry about is that you manipulate and that you really don't tell the truth. Because if you wanted to develop a minimally strict dialogue with the Government about the wind sector, you would probably have to be a little more careful with your statements. He's talking about the wind boom in the Galician Union. Listen, the Government, in the Royal Decree 23/2020, has set a time limit that you know perfectly that has caused the various promoters to attempt to process projects even if they did not comply with the guarantees, and the Government, knowing it, has admitted the processing of projects that do not comply with the wind law of Galicia. The Galician Union has denied all and each of these projects formally before the Ministry; 4,000 megawatts have negative reports from the Galician Union. And you tell me about the wind boom. But we've been misinformed about those parks! Why don't you tell the whole truth? The Galician Nationalist Block always says a part of the truth, as if there was nothing more than its vision. Tell me about park fragmentation. Madam Presas, do you have any legal knowledge or do you want to move them here? The fragmentation of parks means that the promoter breaks the park to avoid ordinary integrated environmental authorization. I remind you that in Galicia each and every one of the parks that are being processed are being processed by the declaration of ordinary environmental impact. There's no legal possibility to talk about fragmentation, but you still do. They are talking about technological developments, and they have not supported the fact that we have actually adapted the Sectoral Plan precisely to ensure that distances can respond to the technological developments that are developing in the sector. They're constantly manipulating, they're constantly telling false truths, and, unfortunately, you're using people's good faith and therefore trying to fool people too to prevent the development of the wind sector in Galicia. We, Mrs. Presas, will follow. The High Court of Justice of Galicia in no case doubts the different laws of administrative axillization, nor does it question legal security. You know perfectly well that we have responded in the process to all the allegations that have been made, and all the sectoral reports have been issued in the case you are moving on to the judgement of the High Court. I therefore believe that here, Mrs Presas, the only thing that shows a little democratic heel in this matter is your parliamentary group, very little democratic and very little responsible for this country. [[Laughter]] Unfortunately, you have a curriculum, and I understand perfectly that you are ashamed of it, but that's what it is. Therefore, they should be a little more prudent when this government has an effective sectoral wind plan that ensures that at present 77.5% of the territory is free from wind in our territory by law, and I regret that, therefore, if they are trying to put on the side of the Galician Nationalist Block in question the technical and environmental criteria with which the different projects are being approved. It's irresponsibility, it's a negationist vocation of the Galician Nationalist Block, and it's just trying to deceive people for political reasons. And that, I think, would require some kind of correction or, at least, Mrs Presas, some rigour, because we are in Parliament in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u203	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the repetitive turn of this plea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I wanted to take a brief look at what we've seen in the last two hours about the so-called "governance of rigor." Because here we're talking about a question to the Education Counsellor and an interpellation to you about two sentences, and one of you've told us about versions and you're talking about fallacies. Of course, Mr. Count, those who should look a little at the classes of rigor and reading are you. [[Applause]] Look, we don't believe in possessors of the truth, we don't even think sometimes that justice itself owns the truth. But of course, what is evident is that there are absolutely demolitional judgments on the political policy of the People's Party, Mr. Conde. You just don't want to see it. About fragmentation. He says where we get the fragmentation from. Oian, that the sentence of Sasdonigas openly says that you have been convolved with fragmentation. [[Applause]] He says environmental guarantees are met. Iribio's judgment, which says no, that they were trying to get you an environmental impact statement of more than fifteen years that didn't apply to anything. [[Applause]] And judgments like Corme's tell us questions like he can't act with respect to a wetland, because he's not protected, and because he hasn't been included by the Galician Board in his wetland record, which has not been up to date for years and years. Of course, if you don't extend the Natura Network, they make it through the law of depredation bis, the Natura Network is subject to industrial development, and above all they already take and say directly: there, we load the areas of wind development and it's going to be wind development area to say the board of the board! [[Applause]] Of course, with that wind despotism, Mr. Conde, of course, you will be very happy. [[Applause]] In any case, that sentence says something very serious, which is that it is against Community law the 2017 law of depredation that you have approved and therefore, even if it does not affect this project, the 2021 law that goes in the same direction. What are you going to do? As if nothing; now, after becoming almost independent with the Central Government of Sanchez, you will be asked to leave the European Union. Well, finally, of course, you're squeezing surrealism. [[Applause]] And look, we don't play to confuse anyone, eh!, we believe in most of this country's age and in the collective intelligence of people, of the collectives, of the neighborhood, of all those who are answering this wind policy, that constitute a social majority that even implies the employer because of how you are doing the thing, Mr. Count. And, of course, we're very proud of our curriculum. In fact, the more you rush to criticise the wind competition of the Bipartite - and they add to the socialist bench - the more proud we are, because time gives us the reason that this project was absolutely revolutionary, attacked the privileges of the electric lobby and sought an economic alternative for the production of this country to be associated with environmental guarantees, guarantees of democratic participation and also guarantees of public re-investment and development. [[Applause]] That's the point. And, look, since you're talking to me about the Bipartite, because if you want us to talk about another sentence too. I left it there on the bench, but I can pass it to Mr. Santalices or Mrs. Prado, in his replacement. We're talking about the sentence this week that the Galician Council will again condemn to pay another million euros for defeating this Bipartite wind competition. It's worth four million euros, more than four million euros, Mr. Conde, that you deduct from this country's public archives to retroactively fund your dirty 2009 election campaign. [[Applause]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] In any case, you also have another opportunity here to apologize again for your repeated accusations against Mr. Quintana and Mr. Blanco. He's got another chance. And, look, since you're also talking about the question of the state -- you see, it was there that it was embedded in the papers and it didn't pay attention -- I tell you that I told you very clearly that some part of the responsibility is in the central government. Yes, yes, because there's a roadmap which is that Galicia is the stack of Spain, and we continue to legislate for that to be so. Of course there are problems that are coming from the state, but there is a problem that you don't want to solve and that has already come here to debate, and it's the lack of sovereignty in this country, because if parks of more than 50 megawatts depend on the state, it's by the electric laws that the People's Party has approved, and because there's no answer from Galicia to demand that wind sector planning now have to be entirely from Galicia. We'll put that point back on the motion to see if you're able to approve it. [[Applause]] In any case, I'm going to make a brief reminder of the lies that Mrs Vázquez put here yesterday saying that the Nationalist Block had voted in favour of Decree 23/2020, which is absolutely false. That is indeed a lack of rigour and trying to appeal to you to cover up your own shames. I'll leave you here, if you like, the result of the votes. I'm done, Mr. Conde. There's no way to get it. You didn't make a single allusion to this sentence because it's demolition. I suppose we'll have to live the shame that we've lived in the previous two and you'll resort. In any case, the damage is done, but the precedent is there. The warnings of what is not working and of what has no democratic guarantees are there. So what you should do is adjust, assume responsibilities, change the legal framework to be guaranteed and also put guarantees on the table for projects that are being processed and that are likely to be in the same situation, so that people, communities, neighborhoods have the ability to know what they are talking about and if they have anything to claim those projects. That, Mr. Count, is what you have to do. And here the one who's making an absolute startling of the companies is the Board of Galicia, with insecurity, with projects at his fingertips...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u205	You have to finish, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u206	...and so goes the industrial production index. yesterday's data came out, and while Galicia's data falls, Spain's data advances. So, Mr. Conde, you are the main enemies of the wind sector, the main enemies of the economic development of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The second Vice-President of the European Union has the floor for the replication of this appeal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Presas, the economic development of our country... should meet with the workers of Cence and explain to them what the economic development of our country means to the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] It's funny that when they want to refer to the regulations of the electricity sector they refer to the governments of the People's Party. I remind you, Mrs. Presas, with total cordiality, that they have been supporting the current Government for three years, and therefore you are complicit in everything that is happening in the electricity sector and in the development of the wind sector in Galicia. So I think it should be more prudent when it comes to national regulations, because, I insist, you've been ruling for three years, supporting this government. And talk to me about our country's intelligence. Home!, give me an opportunity to talk to you about the Boibela wind farm - Mr. Rivas will surely be very interested too - You know perfectly well that this park develops in two municipalities in the province of Lugo, in the Incio and in the Poor Brollón. How curious! that the Galego Nationalist Block has dedicated itself to collecting signatures in the Incio Town Hall, ruled by the People's Party, to call for the cautious paralysis of this project, but, uh, they didn't happen to pass the border and arrive at the Poor Brollon to carry out the same campaign, because there they rule the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Applause]] Madam Presas, if you want to talk about collective intelligence, we're not the dumb Greeks. But I give you the tranquillity that this park, the park of Boibela, is already negatively informed by the Board of Galicia, precisely by failing to comply with the Plan of the Galician wind sector. Look, I don't think you've followed my intervention. I of course told you about the sentence, which is what motivates this plea. You started talking about other things other than the text of the interpellation itself, which is the strategy that develops, but I try to respond to everything that moves me, simply, with all the cordiality. Look, the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, first of all, is not firm, and I move you that we will file an appeal before the Supreme because we understand with all humility that there was no kind of defence on the part of the appellant. However, the judgment does not at any time question the technical criteria and environmental criteria that led to the approval of the project, nor does it question the Law of the wind sector or the successive laws of administrative axillization which were launched in Galicia. If so, I would be grateful if you would explain to him which areas of the judgment are called into question both the environmental technical criteria and the different administrative axillization laws. In any case, we continue to promote the wind sector project, and the projects know that they are processed according to regulations. Why do you want to try to trick people? There is an administrative procedure to be followed. Projects have to go through all sectoral reports, which have to be favourable, and there has to be an approved environmental impact statement, so they have to comply with each and every policy aspect. There's a Greek law in the wind sector, there's a state environmental assessment law, and therefore I don't know why they insist on questioning that this government abides by the rules; a regulation that is completely transparent with the public exposure of the documentation. And you know that we since the Galician Union have no other objective than transparency. We have a provincial information network of wind projects that takes more than half a hundred meetings with the municipalities, we have a promotional guide to process a wind project that is opposed to its guide so that we can prevent the development of different parks and we have, Mrs. Presas, an information office to landowners, precisely to facilitate guidance on applicable regulations and methods and valuation criteria. So, total transparency. Where we are guaranteed from the point of view of wind development, I regret that you, simply on an absolutely ideological subject, want to avoid Galicia being able to add to the decarbonization of our economy, to the development of renewable energies and use the wind sector simply to win a handful of votes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u209	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the sixth point of the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadlines laid down by the Board of Galicia to withdraw the public and free competition tender from the management contract of the ski station of Manzaneda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u210	To put the question, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u211	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I move here with this initiative a concern that exists in the region of Manzaneda and Trives in connection with the operation of the mountain station. The mountain station belongs to MEISA society, where the Galician Union has most of its shares, in conjunction with the Deputy. A concern that not only the mayors but also the workers' unions of the station itself and the suppliers themselves and that it has to do with the operation and management of the station itself; management that at this time — as you know — was attached to a society which had been formed ten months earlier, with finger-adjustment, because the proposals put forward by two other companies in the sector were rejected in the contest, and a management that ultimately reproduces the mismanagement that takes place at that mountain station for years, because prior to the present adjudicator, the previous one, Oca Hotels, as you well know, did not have much luck in managing this station. It is a station where a lot of public money has been invested over the past few years in the form of capital enlargements, both from the Galician Union and from the Deputy, and it is a station where in the years 2019 and 2020 loans have also been made since the Deputy for important accounts. Apart from the struggles by the control of the society in the board of directors between the Parliament itself and the Council of Galicia, which have brought up some judicial price with an included sentence, our question has to do with the operation and management of the facility itself, basically after 5,5 million euros were invested in the installation of 29 snow-canons, two snow-making apparatus and two water-accumulation packages to manufacture snow, with an objective, according to the installation project of these 29 cannons: that in Manzaneda there was snow for at least 120 days a year. The result, in 2020, is that the mountain station didn't open a single day for its users to use the ski tracks; in 2021 it opened two days, exactly on January 16 and 17, and in 2022 it didn't open any day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u212	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u213	And the question I ask you is:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u215	...when you're going to bid this station...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u216	Thank you, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u217	...to manage a solvent and competent company? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u218	Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor to answer this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u219	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Rivera. Well, I share your concern, we all share it, and I think there's concern in entrepreneurs and municipalities, around the world, about the viability of the station. That's what we're working on, there's no doubt about it, and that's what I'm going to try to answer the question. In fact, you've already asked that question last year, and objective circumstances haven't changed much since the response given to you by the Director of the Tourism Agency. It is true that you have continued to work and that there are very good figures since you asked the question, that I suppose they will do nothing but rejoice at it. I suppose you know that within that intention to destabilize the Manzaneda station -- because we both agree that, whether snow or not, it does not depend on the Galician Union, at least for now, and so you will have to try to find other solutions -- you have to say that you visited the snow-free station between fifteen and twenty thousand people since that kind of activity was resumed again; that is, we're talking about six months. So the moment it snows, I'm sure there'll be a lot more. But we will agree too -- I'll tell you again -- what little we can do for that. Then we'll talk about cannons, don't worry. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] But, well, I think a figure of fifteen to twenty thousand is not wrong. You say there's been a failed bidding procedure. Well, what was done was to comply with the contract law. I suppose you'll also agree with me that we have to comply with the contract law. And if the litigants don't meet the conditions, they can't be helped. By the way, the tender procedure that comes — which you also referred to, and I suppose you also know; it doesn't say so because you're not interested — of a judicial action that comes from the Galician Council itself, saying that this must be removed by the invitation to tender. So they give us the reason already in the bidding. The procedure was failed with two bidders, and the Galician Board had the option of crossing those arms and looking to see what happened or to look for a manager — which, by the way, presented a proposal that was more advantageous than the two bids that were later failed — and put the station to work. And so that's what we did, with an initial vigil of a year, extendable until December 31, 2022, at most. The municipalities continue to be part — it is true that with a lower capacity — of MEISA society and therefore are perfectly informed. I was when he started the season again, in the month of June, and there they were; therefore all they wanted to ask and all the information needed if he was making it easier for them. As far as the information they're asking is concerned, I think they've been challenged since Galician Union. I'm curious — and I have to tell you — that the documentation, which we can't provide because we don't have it, has already been told exactly where to go and, secondly, they tell me you didn't go. It must be that that effort is not worth it and that, at best, the question has more politics than interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u220	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. For the replica turn, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u221	Actually, it's not snowing. Of course, but cannons are installed to produce snow, to propel snow through a device; for that they spend 5.5 million euros. The point is, why don't these cannons come into operation? And you can't forget that it's not possible, because technically it was possible, because there were the conditions of humidity and the conditions of temperature that made it easier. Therefore, days of activity have been lost at that station, days where public influx is very important and where the economic activity of the whole of the region is benefited. We've actually been asking for documentation, and the board doesn't make documentation easy. We have asked for it here, in the Galician Parliament, and also in the MP. Mr Baltar, who is the global champion of transparency, has made absolutely nothing easy, and now we have seen him asking for demands on the objective distribution of European funds. Well, it would be good to analyze what the Board of Auditors says about how the funds of the Ourense Provincial Deputies are distributed. But, going to the question, Counsellor, the contract was awarded to a society that was formed ten months ago, that had no experience in the sector and that, indeed, is not fulfilling any of the expectations that you, in a propaganda way, always allude to. I mean, you quote me here 20,000 citizens who visited this station, and I'm telling you today there's a deputy program basically for kids to ski at the station, but it's not possible. Seven hundred children in Ourense are unable to do so as a result of not putting the injunction cannons into operation, those where you spent 5.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u222	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u223	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u224	Thank you very much. For the replica turn, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, among his many skills is also to be an expert in the operation of ingathering cannons, so I stand up. [[Laughter]] Perhaps the cannons — which are in perfect state of operation — don't get started by a whim, because the Galician Union and the Deputy, who are investing in the only winter station that exists in Galicia — are either good or poorly located, but there, we don't like people going skiing. [[Applause]] We like to have cannons there, that could work, but it doesn't work, so people get bored and you can come here to Parliament and throw me in the face. That's the scheme you have. [[Murmurs.]] Then I invite you to something. Go there and, since you're an expert in ingathering cannons, put yourself in front of the cannons and you put them in motion. That, if it does not produce snow, you have to bear all the costs and come here to Parliament saying that, in fact, I might not know as much about how these systems work as you say here. Because, if not, I can't understand this commitment you have to say that cannons don't work because we don't like guns. As soon as the conditions are met, he has no doubt that there will be snow. I hope the climate conditions make it possible that the cannons are not even needed, or at least that they contribute to the extensive operation of these cannons because the climate helps. But, well, this is what experts tell me. You, who is another expert, tell me that this is all a story, and that we have them there, but we don't want to make them work. I, if it's all right, I'm going to trust the experts, who are always dedicated to it, exclusively. Because you're a member of parliament and an expert in injunction cannons while these are only experts in in inviator cannons and tell us that it's not possible. [[Laughter and murmuring.]] So, if you're all right, stay there for the invitation to get you to go and put them into operation. And we send the media there too, and we see if you were really right, because what you're saying here is that this is the case. In the meantime, let's keep working. Look, you've been working on criminalizing a company that, as a negotiated procedure, is law enforcement, after a procedure that has been failed. It's a specialty for you to say, "It won't be good, it won't work, we're going to criminalize anything that can work well and then live from the consequences of saying that this doesn't work well." But, look, I shouldn't play with something as important as the only tourist resource in that area. I should value and speak well that we are able to destabilize, that there were twenty thousand people in six months in a tourist year as complicated as the past, that there were international hiking tours, cycling marches, adventure raids League Española Woman Raid, marathon and half a mountain marathon, orientation, night track "Manzaneda Career of Stars", the female cyclist's return — many teams that are back to doing their concentration there in Manzaneda —... all that I think is good for everyone. You say not because it gives him great anger that, knowing how to fix those cannons and put them into operation, the Union won't let him. That's the story you have to tell. I tell you the story of trying to make a tourist resource work the way it has to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u226	Thank you very much, Vice President. Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the operation of the interurban transport of road travellers in the region of Eume
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u227	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u228	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. Allow me also to welcome the mayors of Pontedeume and Cabanas as well as the mayor of Mine, because they also want to know today what is the position of the Galician Council in relation to the evas and the problems of urban transport in their area. And they also want to know if the Galician Union wants to remedy this problem. Because, Counselor, today what we've seen here is the interurban transport of the Eume region. Or rather, to point out, the malfunction of urban transport in this region. And I remind you, Madam Counsellor — because you are given enough to throw balloons out and to shield yourself in the competitions, like most of the German Government — which is the absolute competence of the Galician Council for road transport that develops exclusively in our territory. And this is the case. Since about a year ago, since the new adjudicatorship began providing the interurban road passenger transport service in this region of Eume, there have been numerous complaints from users and users regarding this service — today we bring the Eume district but this, Counsellor, knows it is throughout Galicia. There are numerous complaints because of delays, frequency reductions and also timetable reductions, and in particular in various services on the line that Pontedeme communicates with the cities of Ferrol and La Coruña. Since the beginning of the provision of these services by the new adjudicatory company, and also seeing these eaves, by the Pontedeume Council, there have been numerous occasions when they addressed their advisors to transfer to them the need for the necessary measures to be taken for the proper functioning of this service, having, as I say, detected numerous deficiencies. In an audit conducted by his own counseling and transferred to the Pontedeme Town Hall, I was asked to strengthen services and frequencies by 11%. But far from this improvement, the Galician Union — without warning — proceeded on the week of January 10 this year to the suppression of several lines of this service. There were schoolchildren who were late in their classes, schoolchildren who got to stay for more than half an hour alone in their stops waiting for this transport to pick them up. You have to be aware of all this, but what happens is that you don't put any remedy to solve this situation. It is true that this prayer was born lame because it did not meet the realities and needs of the region itself. And we today that we urge you to remedy the situation of these users in the Eume district. Did you do it to Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u230	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank you for bringing your concern about improving mobility in Ferrolterra and The Eume. What surprises me is that you are not in your preoccupations with the improvement of railway services, railway services which, of course, are the great structural problem of Ferrolterra and O Eume. So I'm sorry it's not one of your concerns, if you want to talk about mobility, the train in Ferrolterra and the Eume. Don't worry, that we're going to talk about the bus and bus services, but, in any case, if you were fair and fair to me, you should recognize the really important and unprecedented effort we're doing and what we've done for public transport. From the Galician Board, we've made and we've been making a bet that hasn't stopped. We do not stop working, we do not stop strengthening services, and, above all, between The Coruña and Ferrol — with direct services and pushing further improvements and continuous reinforcements of services. Public transport in Galicia has earned quality, won in utility, of course, and also at homogenous and affordable prices, uniting bonds and universalizing the New People's card so that all young Welsh people can use the transport of Galicia's board free of charge. On the urban bus where the Socialist Party governs, like Vigo or Santiago, why don't they put the New People's card? They don't bet on mobility. I'm not telling you in Ferrol, because in Ferrol, in urban transport, the Socialist Party was not able to set up a bus, not a line!, not a stop!, not a screen! And you're here to tell me about mobility and the bus! In the county of Ferrol, the Socialist Party, it was the Junta of Galicia who had to go out to rescue so that Ferrol had an urban bus and the Ferrol boys had the New People's card. And it's over eleven thousand boys who have New People in Ferrol Town Hall. And we keep working and working for the advantages of public transport despite the fact that the Ferrol Town Hall throws balloons out in urban transport. We'd like more involvement at the right time, which is the time when we plan services and submit public information. You didn't make any claims there. But at the time of public information and when services are planned, it would be important to make constructive proposals, constructive initiatives and constructive involvement, both by the municipalities and by the rest of society. Because the timely and timely moment is the time of planning. I think they work reasonably well — everything is better. There's a single portal that's "bus.gal". I ask for constructive approaches. And, of course, at the time of planning is the moment, not now -- when they've been implanted for some time -- with an explosion of creativity from just spectacular, all of a sudden, and I think even politicized. We continue to work for the improvement of public transport services in Galicia, don't hesitate. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u231	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u232	Counselor, the truth is that you are also very, very predictable. I was talking to you — let's focus on the question of urban transport in the Eume region. The competition is from Galician Union. And you're talking to me about urban transport and railway services. But, look, Counsellor, is that today you have lost a golden opportunity to transfer to the political representatives, but also to the vicinity of the Eume district, which you are aware of the problems in this urban transport, that you are sensitive to the problems that the neighbours and neighbours have encountered, and in particular the schoolchildren — who have been waiting for thirty minutes alone at the stop where the interurban transport had come to pick them up. So, Counselor, what do you guys do? You have the skills. [[Applause]] Of course, I've already said that I'm very good at listening to the competitions. He made it very clear with his intervention. Besides, you know how I am that no time has been given to the municipalities to make allegations. One skilful day, and they sent him in the middle of Christmas, in the middle of Christmas, with a full-fledged day to present allegations! Look, Counsellor, the lay-neighbourly neighborhood, as well as the town halls, ask for an immediate solution to these problems, call for the return of the deleted lines, demand the increase of services, and so that the needs of the city's citizenship, as agreed in recent months. Many improvements are needed, such as recovering those services that were previously offered, increasing the frequencies, the freeness of this service for students, true information about the schedules — because there is no, Counsellor. I repeat to you: if you are aware of all these problems — because you have to be, because you are responsible for the competent advice on matters — be a little sensitive to this neighborhood and please give them a solution to the problems they are living. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u233	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u234	Thank you, President. Well, I'm going to read you a letter that recently came to us from the Council of Pontedeume, from the mayor, "From the Council of Pontedeme we very positively appreciate the final proposal for the reorganization of mobility needs with an increase of 11% of the number of expeditions, with 35% being direct." So we see a positive assessment of the improvements that we've seen in January and that you don't know at all these improvements that we've made during this month. [[Mrs. Otero Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And ask me to return the previous one. I do not know whether there were previously private user contracts with Top, with 140 euros a month, which paid Top — Private contracts. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows the House a document]] Today there are services for much less price. You are asking me to do this, to recover private lines with private contracts by paying 150 euros. Perhaps, of course, you don't know the reality of previous public transport; therefore, I don't know if you're asking me for that. I understand you do. We bet on another line of work that improves public transport. If he had listened to them, the bus lines would continue in the '50s and, as the concern for the train has already disappeared, the railway in the 19th century as well. It's unquestionable that Galician board bet on interurban public transport. I don't come here to throw balloons out. We're working on urban transport, which is our competition, and I come here to explain. And I'm giving him explanations permanently. Because it was us who improved interurban public transport in Galicia, with determination, dialogue, increasing and strengthening services, planning and consensus. We reinforce services and talk to the mayors. We had meetings with the mayors and informed them. We didn't change a single stop, at least it was, without informing municipalities and users. I'll tell you again that it connects to the bus.gal platform. You should not know that there is information digitally and up-to-date on the bus.gal web page. We did 1,600 surveys and we attended the Town Councils. And I would like them to be concrete and constructive. Look, January 10th -- which you don't know -- we've increased 55 expeditions per week to The Iron Curtain. On January 24th, a lot of improvements: new line Pontedeme-Miño-Betanzos at 15.25; in the Town Hall of Cabanas, which also requested a change, we implemented the 24th; the line Pontedeme-Monfero; the line Pontedeme-Miño-Betanzos at 14.20; we extended to Mine the service to Ferrol at 15.30 etc. No requests left without analysis. You don't know them. And we'll follow. We also change — and in this month we apply — the hour, at 6:30 a.m., to get you out of Ferrol. Your mobility proposal is traffic laws and nothing improves mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u235	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Borja Verea Fraiz and nine other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the view of the Government of Greece on the consequences that tax reliefs to the sponsors of Xacobeo do not extend until December 31, 2023
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u236	To put this question, Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u237	Thank you, President. Vice-President, let us bring back to the plenary a question which stems from these incomprehensible decisions of the Socialist Party in Madrid; therefore, we are faced with a political anomaly such as the non-enlargement or extension of tax incentives. The logic at the time when the Holy Year is extended, as I say, would be that tax reliefs would automatically be extended. Well, this rational expectation didn't happen, but quite the opposite. And what might seem to be disappointing, disloyalty or an administrative blockade confirmed that it was a voluntary political act, a political act expressed as not wanting to extend these tax incentives. So it was demonstrated in the Senate a few weeks ago, when the Socialist Party — I insist — directly, expressly — voted against the expansion of these incentives. And, more importantly, German senators of the Socialist Party voted against the extension of these tax incentives. There's no doubt that the messenate in Xacobeo is fundamental. The participation of the economic fabric generates a much more collective project, much more plural, much richer and, at the same time, Jacobo would be a country project, and it is a country project, much more solvent with this public-private collaboration. And that's not just words, there are the figures — which are already known figures — of the 20 million euros that have brought companies to the Greek economic fabric for this Xacobeo. We want them to continue to insist and continue to participate in the companies, and to participate in the Xacobeo. There is still possibility, of course not in the general budgets of the State, but in the legislative texts that are being dealt with in the General Courts. So what this parliamentary group asks the Government of Galicia is what its position is after fifteen days ago the Galician Parliament unanimously approved the extension of these tax incentives and, however, a few weeks ago in the Senate if it voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. The Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr Verea, "uncomprehensible" is the word. We asked the Central Government for it — we went, we tried to ask for it and he said no joke. We were going to ask when we saw that the Barcelona Cultural Week, a week and in Barcelona, received 20 million euros of direct attribution. Home!, the Xacobeo, which is at least for all Spain and lasts two years, some direct transfer could have, and they told us no, implantable. Well, since it could not be — incomprehensible — it would have to go at least to tax relief. Since we were very lucky to have one more year of Xacobeo, because it was about tax reliefs simply to extend the same time that Xacobeo was going to last. If we weren't asking for anything different! It wasn't that Jacob was just a year and we wanted more degravations, no, the Jacob is two years old and therefore that the time that Jacob lasts is extended. We've been asking for some time. It was asked in March last year. It was adopted here in the Galician Parliament on a proposal. We must thank the Galician Nationalist Block for voting in favour. The Socialist Party of Galicia should have been afraid at that time, as in so many things, that they pulled it out of their ears at the national level and abstained. He was just as good as he was or he wasn't. Well, we have transferred this proposal adopted in Parliament to everyone who had to know it: to the President of the Government, to Vice President Calvin or to the Minister of Industry. I at all the sectoral conferences at which I had the opportunity to participate tried to reiterate it insistently. We have achieved something in the Committee on Business and Public Service in the Congress of Deputies: on the initiative of the People's Group we voted in favour of this extension of the vigil in the State budgets. At that time, the state socialists, who are a little more courageous or who like Jacobo more than the German socialists, voted in favour there. It's also true that later in the Senate they had to pull them out of their ears and vote against it. Well, that's how we keep going. He came back to Parliament, this time they realized in the Socialist Group that there was no point in not being in favour of prolonging the tax benefits and also voting in favour of extending them. We're going to keep fighting, no doubt about it. Look, it makes no sense that, for example, the Bicentennial of the National Police, which is 2024, from 2022 to 2025; Year of Research Santiago Ramón y Cajal, from 2022 to 2025; Year of Jubilee Lebanon, from 2022 to 2025, and 200 Anniversary of the Paseo de Gracia de Barcelona, reconstruction of the historic-covered jump pool of Club Natació de Barcelona, three years of fiscal extensions. The Jacobbeo exactly how long it lasts, not another day. It wasn't until there was some kind of sympathy for an event that obviously looks very good on Galicia! In fact, you were saying 21 million, 33 sponsors; it's a system that is also cheap to the state. What's the reason they tell us not? What's the reason that for once that kind of phobia to say that to everyone and to any kind of event, and that it seems to us very well, yes, and to Jacob? As there will be an amendment in Congress, we will now see if this manifest will remains here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u240	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u241	We'll talk more about the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u243	Thank you, President. As you said, Vice-President, because the Socialist Party's background on this issue is -- being generous -- erratic, because in March an abstention, in September, in favour, at Christmas against, a few weeks ago I voted in favour. So the credibility and expectation that this can be solved is at least a doubt. And we can also add the record of support to what is the Holy Year, to what is the Jacobean Year. We have repeated on many occasions that lack of direct funding, as if they are having other cultural events of lower entity. And more concrete issues, such as demands expressed by the Self-Government, such as the Black Point arrangement across all of Santiago's roads, the reinforcement of state security forces. Formal but also important issues, such as when they took out of Galicia the presentation of this Jacobean Plan. As I say: erratic background. So the question that you would like to know about this parliamentary group is: what would be the consequences, what would be the effect that we would not achieve that extension of tax incentives and the breakdowns for Xacobeo? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u244	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. For the Government's reply, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Verea, not erratic. The fact is that, with the exception of the last hour, they have always been very clear that the requests for enlargement of associations should not be supported here in the Galician Parliament by the Socialist Group. It's rather embarrassing. I've talked to some representative of the Socialist Party, and when you ask questions they can't tell you what the reason is, they don't... I understand, they don't have an explanation. A Greek entrepreneur or a Galician company if you want to sponsor Xacobeo won't be able because it's over, until September 30th this year. I mean, even -- I don't say the following year -- the same Year, the last three months, nothing can be done with sponsorship. That's also to be told to a lot of people who come and ask for the support of Jacob. That's whether, if that Galician or not company wants to sponsor the Lebanese Year, it's going to be two more years old, or it wants to sponsor the 200th anniversary of the Barcelona Swimming Pool, it's going to be three more years. We're done right before Xacobeo's finished. That I don't know what to say... more than anything else, I use to let it be said here in the minutes, and to ask for the support of the three groups again. I'm sure I'll have the majority group. The block in this up to now has also been quite consistent. And I ask the Socialist Group to speak with its government and to say that this amendment, which is currently being processed, which is included, among other things, the extension to the end of the year that comes from the tax benefits to those who want to sponsor the James James, which is approved. That's going to be a good sample of getting everything rectified so far. Obviously, what they've done so far cannot be deleted, there it is. I'd like you to say that at the end of the day they brought their government into line and that they were able to explain to you that it's very difficult for you to defend in Galicia that all of us are given this aid in the form of extensions of exemptions, and that here we are told not to the national tourist event declared by their own government. That you look at it as you look at it has no other explanation than to think that you can take some kind of political advantage that something that benefits everyone can come out well, and you're determined that we can't take advantage of the advantages or at least make it difficult. There's no other solution, and I don't think they have another explanation, but they have a huge opportunity. But with facts, look: a few days ago, an announcement came out from the State Secretary of Tourism saying that Galicia had given it in funds Next Generation 60 million, a map that spoke about all over Spain, and to us 60 million. Not a euro today! Nothing at all, he's in zero. So let's stop joking and start talking seriously about what really matters to Galicia and here they have a chance. We look forward to it and we thank you very much that, after making a paper on this subject during these months, you now have the opportunity to amend and do a favor to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u246	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the performance of the Government of Galicia to restore the total number of primary care professionals who have assigned the Health Centre and the CAP of Vilalba
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u247	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u248	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. What we're going to talk about today is the situation that's going through primary care in Vilalba. But the truth is that today we put Vilalba, but we could talk, for example, only about my province, about the situations that are living in Burela, Pontenova, or about the chaotic situation that are living in the Viveiro Health Center. Focusing on Vilalba, the truth is that the case of Vilalba and its surroundings of the Tea Earth is paradigmatic of the situation that is living in primary care. There are problems in both the local health centre and the CAP that serves this municipality, Vilalba, in addition to Abadín, Caspeito, Walls and Germade. Vilalba, with more than fourteen thousand inhabitants, has eleven cups of optional family and community medicine professionals, of which only eight are being covered. So, in paper, eleven professional coupons, actually, eight professional coupons. And these professionals who are serving have to redistribute among themselves the quota of patients, which places the real ratio — not that of paper — in more than seven hundred patients per professional. This causes an increase in the care burden among professionals, who have to take longer days or attendance concentrations in the same amount of time. In addition to this unsolved situation, the dome of the Pediatrics professionals is being covered by family and community professionals, and the specialized care that previously existed is being lost, and I speak of Ophthalmology or Rheumatology. In Germade, the neighbouring municipality, there is a similar situation, because of the three quotas that exist up to a very short time now, primary health care is covered only by a variable professional who is not attached to the health centre. The CAP that serves these municipalities also suffers from the difficulty of incomplete management that from the health area cannot provide coverage for the staff that the centre needs. This scenario leaves it difficult to cover a population of nearly twenty-five thousand people, of about eight hundred in pediatric age. So, you who talk so much about betting on setting population in the most rural contours, we see that they choose precisely the opposite. We asked them if they were going to take any steps to solve the problem of primary care in Vilalba.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u249	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u250	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Otero, of course we can go into the detail of each of the health centers in Galicia, but the answer wouldn't differ much. There's a clear reality that affects primary care and that I'll repeat as many times as necessary: there's no medical family and community care specialists. They're missing doctors here and missing in all autonomous communities. The State Government's appeal to the contracts of doctors retired throughout the State is one more example, if necessary, that this is a problem — I repeat — at the level of the entire State. While this problem is not solved, of course we must take measures, and so do we, such as the implementation of quality schedules; the support of pharmacists in the renewal of recipes; the tool of CRM 100; local health plans — which, of course, Vilalba is one of the centres that is developing a local health plan—; the SIDE, a tool that has been presented at the sectoral table and with good acceptance, and which will also be implemented in this health center, because that is where the local health plan is. In addition, all the measures that the Galician Union has taken at this time and in recent years to alleviate the work of primary. For example, to take the evidence out of primary care, in this case the PCRs with care; to take out of primary all populations and vaccination, or agreements with pharmacy to reduce the care burden in health centers, and more recently that self-declaration form or the automatic processing of casualties and discharges directly. In addition, within our autonomous competences, we have launched the continuity contract to favour these coverages when doctors are missing; the 331 squares of the Primary Care Plan; the 109 squares in this year's budget, the highest in Chapter I and Primary Care, to incorporate nurses and pharmacists in this case, and more recently in the Law of measures such health technicians with more than one hundred and fifty writings or that first call of specialists in Family and Community Medicine by merit contest, those 106 squares, exactly the same as the MIRs that this year complete their training in Galicia. The Vilalba section, as I said, does not escape the reality of Spanish primary care and to solve such issues as this since June, we have then put everything in our hand to move forward towards a more renewed and increasingly better equipped primary. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u251	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u252	Thank you, President. Well, the advisor himself in his reply recognized because he told me we could talk today about the Vilalba Health Center, but we could talk about any other Galician health center. Because that's why there's a structural problem, a management failure on the part of the Galician Union to cover these primary care services. I wonder, Mr. Counsellor, because he always tells us that there are no doctors, if something has to do with the management of the Galician board that these professionals are not involved in, because, at best, something has to do with the working conditions of health professionals, because Galicia has the worst working conditions in Spain, and it's impossible to attract them to provide their services to our autonomous community. Or, perhaps, it also has to do with the fact that Galicia has for many years given up, since it has ruled Feijóo, to form 151 primary doctors. Maybe something has to do with this, Counselor. I mean, those MIR squares that they might have called, that they didn't, and the worst, they didn't explain why they didn't. Now it's all about throwing balloons and blaming the Government of Spain, and now it's about saying that the problem is the same as we have all over Spain. No, look, Mr. Counsellor: there's a total management failure, there's a total management disability on the part of Sergas, and I'm not able to cover these casualties, to cover these holidays, to cover the days off, and everything is saying "no." We're working on it, but the truth is that users of these services, primary care users see how they get the worst attention every time, despite the great effort of professionals, who put all they can and most of them give the best service. That's why today I ask you about when you've thought about passing these professional coupons in the role of the Vilalba Health Center to those real professional coupons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u254	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. García Comesaña has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u256	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Otero, if the problem outside of Galicia's board would be the problem in Galicia's board, and as I just told you, and you can see from multiple sources, the problem is all over the state. Or see if the guilt of the Galician Union also affects Asturias, Andalusia, Catalonia, the Basque Country. Well, he doesn't want to see reality. We work all we can on our band. Of course, I have just reported the measures in our area and in everything we can have worked on — I repeat — to download primary care at the moment, and I am going to speak to you in a concrete way to the Vilalba CAP. Look, there's not even now, nor has there been this whole period lately, not a single vacancy or uncovered squares in the Vilalba CAP. So I don't know where the CAP problem in Vilalba is. They also know that this is our priority. All our resources as family doctors, as few as there are, are devoted essentially to covering urgent attention. As for the health center, that ordinary primary care, as you well say, in the morning, there are nine optional ones, one that are not covered by the retirement of an optional recently, and in the afternoon of two squares there are one covered and the other not covered. For these two cups that are lacking structurally, the Galego Health Service, like the rest of the health services across Spain, uses two formulas: the intersubstitution and the prolongation of the day. These two modalities, of course paid, were used and used at the Vilalba Health Center to cover these two gaps. You're talking about the ratio. Well, I think he's got a little mistake. If we discount the optional ones, those two that aren't and a third IT that's in these days, the ratio in Vilalba is 1,562. We'd like it to be less, to be in the middle of all Galicia, which is in 1,250. But here I especially want to thank you for the work that all the workers and workers in this health center are doing, both in their ordinary part and in the part of the CAP. Not only these days, but — I insist — throughout the pandemic. And I'm going to give you a fact that I think it's definitive: even today in every cup of that health center, for a health care appointment the delay is less than two days; two days of delay in that health center. In fact, they all have slots available for the same day, except one, where the appointment goes out for the next day. Do you think that's a particularly serious situation in this health center? We'd like you to have all the resources, of course, but I'm trying to explain to you that the problem is that these professionals are missing. And we will continue to work, of course, with all measures. And I want to highlight from here those that don't correspond to us, because of us I've talked about a moment ago. I want to insist on that proposal that you have sent back to Galicia to facilitate accreditation of MIR squares, and I want to insist on those sixty-five additional squares that we have asked for this year. But as my mother says: late you liked it, because it's passed the MIR test. And those sixty-five, if they come in, they'll come in next year. We'll keep waiting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u257	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the consideration of the Government of Galicia with regard to the sanction imposed on a professional of the Emergency Service of the Centro Hospitalario Universitario de Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u258	To put the question, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Every time we bring to this chamber an initiative that critiques a criticism of the current situation of our country's public health system, both the representatives of the Galician Union and the members of the People's Group themselves follow the same tactic: avoiding the central issue and standing behind the health professionals. Professionals from here who want to move once more into my name and into my whole group all the thanks, because I am today the only real ones responsible for the health system to continue standing. [[Applause]] You parapet and usually — not always — recognize the work of professionals, but don't recognize your own ineptitude as managers of the public health system. They're hiding behind the good work done by the workers so they don't recognize that their advice isn't doing the right thing. Dispel in good words until professionals protest and rebel. Then they're ruthless against them. An example of this is what happened to Dr. Castrillo, who was opened a file over a year ago because of a discrepancy over a transfer. Dr. Castrillo, who had spoken on repeated occasions energetically and publicly against the closure of the delivery room at the Hospital de Verín. Another example is the success of Dr. Maquieira — if you know her first-hand — who was cut off from the head of the Plastic Surgery Service in the Cunqueiro Alvaro because she would even call alarmism when she claims protection in March 2020. What a dare it was to sue for masks and individual protective equipment when we were faced with a virus that was infected by drops! You yourself assured that public criticisms are inappropriate. Another is the case that this initiative is taking place. Dr. Nercellas was one of the critical voices of what was happening in the CHUS ER. As I suppose you will know, the Clinic's emergencies suffered a situation of severe collapse even before the collapse of the shed, where patients fell in love in the corridors before they could be cared for, waiting for hours because there was no physical space to pay attention to them, and professionals were not able to afford it. A place that should be transit only housed patients who in some cases waited more than three hours to receive treatment. This doctor has on the table today a proposal for sanctions for moving two patients who had assigned the corridor to observation boxes for treatment. You're upset with criticism, you don't want to hear that your work is not being good. They don't want to hear it when it's told by the Galego Nationalist Block, when it's said by the opposition or when it's the citizenship that manifests itself. Rabbin and protest. And step by step they accuse us of not valuing professionals or being alarmists. But when you protest the staff directly, you don't hesitate to apply with steel the sanctioning regulations that are within their reach. That is why we ask you, Counsellor: what do you think of the proposal for a sanction that is now against Dr. Nercellas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u261	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Carreira, you bring back to this Parliament questions that question the functioning of certain services, as well as the objectivity and independence of certain professionals, because I see that others do not, but others in this case do. And in this case, I'm talking about the professionals who work at the Health Council. We have already stated on several occasions the inopportunity to debate matters such as this perfectly regulated case, just as it does not make sense to do so on judicial judgements. I'm surprised that you're using a question like this to turn it into a party debate. I will not come in to assess the procedure in which an instructor follows a whole process fixed by the sanctioning regime collected in the framework statute. As I have already commented in this plenary before, as a result of some of the cases you reported, I doubt the convenience of this question because of the disregard for the work of the Inspection Service of the Health Council. He seems very disappointed with the file instructor, an independent and sovereign public official in the direction of this procedure. You doubt how good it is to do this professional in this case just to ask this question. What are you trying to transfer, what do you want to insinuate? The Inspection of the Health Council annually processes hundreds of files, always in accordance with the established rules and with the highest objectivity, which is the basis of the work of the entire staff of the Inspectorate, offering in addition to these processes all guarantees to the professionals concerned. The penalties laid down in Article 19 of Law 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 of the Framework Staff Regulations of the health services professional are regulated in this case. The professional had all the accurate information throughout this procedure and, in fact, specific requests were dealt with on the case documentation, and he could, of course, present the corresponding allegations. Now, once the proposal for a resolution of the disciplinary file has been made with the corresponding sanction, the professional has the possibility — how? — to appeal. The political charges must not be brought into a process like this. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u262	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u263	Thank you, President. I agree with you, Counsellor: it is not up to any of us to resolve the proposal for a sanction that Dr. Nercellas has been given for moving — straight — patients to a more appropriate place for treatment. In what I suppose you'll agree with me, it's on the curious chance that he joins all the professionals who stand up against his counseling, since they all end up with some kind of punishment, even if later the files and sanctions proposals don't get anywhere. But suddenly, there's fear on the table and it's clear who's in charge here. I'll pick up your words again from when you were the manager of the Vigo Health Area: "public criticisms are inappropriate." [[Applause]] They also act practically at night and cheerfully because they don't even comply with their obligation to inform the Personal Meeting of the opening of the disciplinary file to Dr. Nercellas. And I repeat, too, that they have the Greek sanity against the strings because of lack of means and lack of staff. Complaints of collapse are not something his government is willing to admit; they avoid talking about the collapse of hospital emergencies, for example, in the hospitals of the Crown or Ourense, which are being thrown out. They now start talking timidly about the saturation of primary care after calling us "alarmists" every time we reported the situation. And so we've seen the news that last Sunday the doctor who was a guard at the Parda's CAP attended to more than a hundred patients by himself, he's only three optionals who had to be on guard. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] If today the health system continues to stand it's clear that it's for the workers and the workers who leave the back every day to get it forward. Sanitaries like Mrs. Nercellas, like Mr. Castrillo or Mrs. Maquieira, but also administrative, cleaning staff, kitchen staff, etc., that what they need are means and rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u265	...to carry out their work with dignity,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u266	Thank you very much. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u267	...don't brag.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u268	Thank you very much. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u269	As I said earlier, the file has been instructed in the most secure way possible, and you probably can't understand it because they might have acted differently. Don't talk to me about files in the case of Doctor Maquieira because, as you well say, I know him well and there wasn't such a file. You may need to better review the documentation. Actually... No, there wasn't a file, there wasn't... No, there wasn't... directly, it was a free-designation service commission... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u270	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u271	...who ceased as such a free designation. In fact, in the case of this Dr. Nercellas it is a person who carried out his union representation, but not that's why the deal must be different for her than her fellow servants receive. I, as I said, am not going to get into certain considerations because I think it doesn't work. But in addition to that professional and his union, they brought to trial a litigation-administrative remedy in respect of a fundamental right action, which was, as you must well know, filed in firm judgment. So -- I insist -- I'm not going to follow that line. But I do want to talk about some references that you make to the emergency situation, in this case in Santiago. The CHUS emergencies are not collapsed. You and your party like to throw these alarmist messages; we don't know very well for that, but the truth is, it's getting more and more frequent. And I think you should think about what this kind of message is supposed to be about. In the case of the CHUS I'd like to give you some data. On the one hand, in the months of most incidence — which are these we are now living, from October to after Christmas — attention in the CHUS emergencies — is done — neither have grown nor are collapsed, but it is even 3,500 less than in 2019 and 2020. On the other hand, the percentage of income in this hospital is almost two points below average in the entire autonomous community. These incomes and consultations are also carried out — as you must know — in a renewed and expanded space with an investment of 1.6 million euros and more than forty new observation beds, and in addition to the possibility of creating differentiated circuits for patients covered and not covered. This work was, of course, carried out with great diligence, and allowed them to have new facilities, as well as to have improved service reduction. And I'm going to give you a data: in those collapsed emergencies that you say, every day, the 300 sixty-five days of the year work 271 professionals, every day, Mrs. Career: 180 emergency-specific professionals: 33 doctors, 56 nurses, 42 TCAE, 9 technicians, 25 janitors, 6 administrative assistants and 9 cleaning workers — I repeat, every day—. In addition to 58 doctors of specialties available to them: 30 doctors of physical presence, 22 of localized presence and 6 doctors of mixed presence. In addition to 33 residents. In total -- as I say -- 271 people every day working in that Emergency Service that you say is collapsed. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u272	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the actions launched to initiate the development of Galician Maritime Culture Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u273	To put the question, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u274	Thank you, President. Welcome, Mrs. Quintana. A collaboration agreement signed between the University of Coruña and the Eurofoundation University of Coruña with the Council of the Sea agreed to the development of the 2030 Maritime Culture Plan. When it was announced, there were those who made him laugh and, as always, opportunistic used to criticize all that is announced and what is done since the Unity of Galicia, which eventually seems to work. You, Mrs. Quintana, are a very supportive advisor to the territory, who is well aware of the social, economic and political reality in the maritime and marine areas of Galicia. And to these factors — social, economic and political — I will add today to the gastronomy and culture, which, as we all know, also come from our sea, our marine lives and the way of life of many of the Greeks that we live in the coastal areas. Two fundamental factors in our identity for our lifestyle and that we inherited from previous generations. And it's good to remember that you at the Sea Council are very careful. So when we talk about important projects that revolve around fishing, around the sea, that many Greeks decide to engage freely, that makes fun of the PSdeG and the BNG on occasion. As if gastronomy, culture and even tourism were neither part of it nor related to the way of life in marine villages. As always, Mrs. Quintana, despite the criticism that we have received from the People's Party, despite the accusations that we are doing everything wrong or not doing anything, where it gives them; despite the many lies that support many of the speeches of the opposition in Galicia; in spite of the mantras that want to have the hegemony of culture and fishing, when it's all the opposite; in spite of all that and more, the Greeks choose the People's Party to rule Galicia and, therefore, legitimize such works as theirs at the head of the Council of the Sea. And they do it, Mrs. Quintana, because they know that their goal has been and will be to keep an eye on the interests of the fishing sector and Galician interests always. [[Applause]] Having said that, let us bring this question to the plenary precisely to account for the involvement of the Sea Council with the marine heritage and the actions being carried out to preserve maritime culture. A work that is part of Galicia's Maritime Culture Plan, which I referred to at the beginning; a name that will probably not like the opposition groups, but which will eventually end up assimilation as a good task, as so often happened with other plans and other actions that led to the Sea Council. The reinforcement of the protection of this heritage and its protection are the pillars of that plan. So today we want, Mrs. Quintana, to report to us on the actions put in place to initiate the development of that plan, so that it is clear that there is an action, that there is a job and that there is a goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, as you well say, the 2030 Plan of Maritime Culture is set at the Council of Galicia by placing in value and recovery of the Greek maritime heritage. Activities, trades and lifestyles linked to the sea have been developed on the Greek coast; conditioned from the very beginning by the geographic and climatic peculiarities of its location, which have given rise to a characteristic culture. A heritage linked to the sea that explains the transformation of the territory and the way of life of the people of the sea, of its social and cultural construction over time, and also of the evolution of the professions and their techniques. The Plan of Maritime Culture is an ambitious work that will allow us to define strategic commitments, political lines and initiatives that we have in the years ahead will establish our guide on the path of placing value and restoring Galicia's maritime heritage. A plan to shape the irrevocable commitment of the Greek Government to maritime culture as the fundamental axis that gives meaning and meaning to Galicia's maritime cultural identity. In this way, on July 5, 2021, on the swing of the Joaquín Vieta Association, which is Galicia's oldest and the lively image of our marine culture, signed the collaboration agreement between the Council of the Sea, the University of Coruña and the foundation of this university for the development of this plan, which has an budget of 192,000 euros. It will work in the global set of coastal territory, and the various activities to be carried out seek to define the main lines of the policies and cultural versions of our coastal Galicia, uniting traditions, the value of the maritime heritage and the steps that must be taken in the future to ensure its coherence and continuity. The proposed plan wants to be a living document in permanent construction and reflection, in which everyone can make their contributions: related experts to the marine-fishing sector, the people of the sea and the main associations of maritime culture and all the agents, without exception, that make up our society. Our cultural heritage is conceived as the foundation of an activity that has in that cultural and ethnographic expression at the heart of its being, in order to improve its conservation, its knowledge and increase the self-esteem of a sector and of the people who develop activities around the sea, because they are part of our history and our being as a people and the main objective of this plan. That's why we want that Galicia to define itself as the conscious community of what it is, of its legacy settled on the banks of our sea. And we'll work, of course, if Coast leaves us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u277	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u278	Thank you, President. So a study to analyze from a scientific-educational perspective the historical and cultural connections and transfers of heritage knowledge between coastal communities. Communities that grew up maintaining balance, the traditional coastal ecosystem, watching for their present values, and surely unconsciously but responsiblely, without knowing how well they were doing for Galicia of the future. That balance of what we were also talking about — and we often talk about it — in the debates in this parliament, and which must continue to adapt to the times. A Galicia that today in that future looks backwards to keep looking forward, uniting traditions, the value of the maritime heritage and the steps that follow to ensure the cultural version of its coastline. And he was talking about that balance and that cordial coexistence, and I want to take advantage of, Mrs Quintana — that the plenary is over, and that we had a debate here last session, which we unanimously approved an initiative in which dialogue and balance reigned — to say that a few days later you were the victim of violent riots in which we do not press the word and dialogue, but that it pushes the crack, the violence, the insult and the harassment. And I think that's not the way to fix things, it's not the way you work for anything. Totally unfair, you're doomed. Madam Quintana, I encourage you to continue working with these plans, with that spirit, with that implication and with that responsibility that has always characterized it, because all the decisions you make now will be for the benefit of the future. And — as I say — you here in Parliament always with vehement debates offers dialogue and words, and that is really what you have always shown in this course. For me, that's all. For this matter of maritime culture only to say what were the actions taken since the signing of the convention in July, because there really is action — as I say — there is action and there is work behind what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Quintana Carballo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u280	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, President. [[Applause extended.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique, for your words and your support. The truth is, last Friday wasn't a nice day, it was a hard and sad day. But I'd like that day to be forgotten. And on that line I can already compromise my work of constant dialogue with all sectors. I mean, the vast majority of the fishing sector condemned that attitude. [[Applause]] I also have to say that on Monday, the drummer sector has already been called for a meeting, to which all representatives attended. I met the presidents of the federations yesterday. Dialogue path is open. And I hope sooner or later to reach a consensus that will allow both the activity of the drummers and also the activity of all the sensible ladies and gentlemen, who do their work very well. [[Applause]] So we're going to forget all that, we're going to work for the future. [[Applause]] And in that future line we also frame this plan, which, in short, I'll tell you that on the same December 20th, we signed in the Nautical Class of the University of Coruña already the presentation of the website, which frames the lines and the goals to work on in developing this plan. [[Applause]] This weak page is available to all citizens who want to make their contributions to enrich this plan and the different lines of work. The plan was structured in six phases. The first one is already in progress, and they are currently forming themselves, after having already done a first research analysis, seven tables of work; seven tables where experts will work and all those who have to contribute to this culture. I mean, we're going to work seven tables in the seven areas of Galicia. And out of them all will come that reflection of a living plan that will frame us and bring us to the self-esteem of all the lords and ladies who work in the world of the sea. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-09-DSPG069.u281	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished items on the agenda, aborting session.
