ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u1	Good morning. Before we start the plenary session, I'm going to read an institutional statement to which the groups arrived yesterday, an agreement from all the groups representing this House, which says: "On account of the shipwreck of the ship Villa de Pitanxo in Terra Nova, the Parliament of Galicia wishes to convey its deepest sense of condolences to the families and loved ones of the deceased crew William Arevalo Pérez, Miguel Lumbres Buys, Daniel Fernando More Valladares, Diego Andrés More Vega, Fernando Santomé Ferradás, Juan Antonio Cordero Coro, Rogelio Franco Damazo Cueva, Apaanah Pelungo Zure, Ricardo Alfonso Cruz Flores; to the families of the disappeared Raul González Santiago, Martín Quino Zevallos, Edmonton Okutu, Ricardo Arias García, Fernando González Martínez, Michael Teteh, Francisco de Pazo Villanueva, Francisco Manuel Navarro Rodríguez, Edwin Andrés Córdova Salinas, Jonathan Calderón Ortiz, Pedro Herrera Couso, Juan Martín Frías Riera; as well as his breath and his gentle release to the stables of the swift-rewns. In addition, the House wants to move its solidarity with the Morrazo district and its affection and recognition to the entire large sea family. After centuries of close relationship with the sea and after having lived as a people countless tragedies linked to it, neither the marine communities nor Galicia are we all able to assimilate the immense pain that causes the loss of thousands of sailors who throughout history have never returned from their tide to the mainland. Again, last Tuesday, February 15, the cold waters of Terra Nova froze as well and forever the life of twenty-one people, twenty-one of the twenty-four sailors that crewed the ship of the Greek Villa of Pitanxo, based on Marin. Some facts that, despite hundreds of miles of our backs, do not prove to be alien to the Greeks and the Greeks and that again show us with tremendous hardness the dangers that people who work in the sea face on a daily basis. A sea that for Galicia is a source of life and that this time, as in so many others, has left our sailors without it. The whole of Galician citizenship has from the very first moment accompanied the families of the deceased and disappeared in their pain and today, aware that there is no consolation or words in these circumstances, the Parliament of Galicia is summarizing them at this moment of profound sadness for the country and the effort of all the competent authorities, of the Greek and Portuguese ships who came to the rescue and of the shipowning company to make available to them the means and resources necessary to speed up all the necessary procedures so that the families of the Pitanxo Villa can begin their donation." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. Now let's keep a minute of silence, please. [[You keep a minute of silence with your lordships standing.]] [[Applause extended.]] Now yes, let's start the full. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. He has justified his inattentiveness and delegation of the vote under Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Mr. Daniel Pérez López, who delegate his vote to Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. And we're just on the agenda. The first point is that of appearances. Accumulation of two requests for attendance of the person holding the same advice Comparison of the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser, on his own request, to report on the development of the Galician Transport Plan Comparability of the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser, at the request of the 19 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to give explanations for non-compliance with contracts in the public transport service in Galicia, as well as to report on their inspection and control work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u2	To make the appearance you have the word, first of all, the advisor to Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I present my own request and also taking into account the request of the Galician Nationalist Block Group to inform the detail of the work developed in the Galician Transport Plan that we have been driving from the German Government. A public transport service where we work to make it effective, competitive, tailored to the needs of the Greeks and users. And it's not the first time I've come to the Transport Plan, and I'm sure it won't be the last time I've come to see you, because your transcendence is very important. And the transcendence of this transport plan makes it one of the fundamental pillars of this council that I have the honour to lead. It's a fundamental joke that is based on the principles of sustainability, efficiency and rationality. We understand transport as a public service to citizens and we work to be modern, useful and effective. Transport has an impact on our day-to-day life, so I think it should be of interest to all political groups, and it couldn't be less if they aspire to control the German Government, so we're all here. But the truth is that I have often missed the design and also in its consolidation a constructive attitude rather than a partisan, to be truly useful to the Greeks in the field of transport. Don't misunderstand me, because I think criticism is constructive. Positive criticism is necessary, which is part of the very essence of the Transport Plan. Ours is a living transport plan, constantly improving, expanding and constantly modernizing. But criticism, I think it has to be with good judgment, with earnestness, not that rite partyist, uncaringly interested, or not for the no, the refusal why yes, the juggling to convert the exception to the rule, to praise to confuse. Those attitudes of nothing are good for travellers, because it's true that they don't give them services, nor schedules for public transport. In any case, one year of the launch of the Galician Public Transport Plan by road will be completed. I think it's just time to balance this transport plan to reflect what your balance was. I think I can claim that you have a remarkable success and the transport plan can indeed qualify as success. And I think it's all right to do an act of contrition and acknowledge that these dark premonitions of the opposition bench in 2017: sneezing failure, the world was finished, the buses wouldn't go around Galicia, the job would disappear in the transport... the premonitions of you, of the opposition bench, they didn't pass, and the buses continued to circulate and they didn't stop a single day without circulation. The story is there. The facts and time set forth and take away reasons, and time gave us reason for transport. Because the apocalypse they wish some of you didn't happen. And this school life with local and rural people living together is a great opportunity to solve rural mobility. I hope they rejoice at this coexistence, to use these empty squares of school transport. I also hope you'll be glad that today we can have buses arriving where they didn't arrive. I hope you're glad that that apocalypse you wish you hadn't passed. The data is irrefutable; of course, significant. By 2016, 927 lines; by 2021, 3,436 transport lines; by 270% more transport lines to cover all of Galicia. By 2016, 20,557 bus stops; by 2021,53,168 stops; by 160% more stops. In 2016, 1.1 million services; in 2021, 2.3 million hours; a substantial increase and also many more trips from 2016 to 2021. So, many more lines, many more stops, more schedules, more services, frightening transport plan figures from 2016 until now. There's always room for improvement and we can always keep improving. That's our philosophy, we're always willing to work to improve, needed improvements. But look at the figures: 2.3 million hours has this transport plan. Our desire for dialogue and negotiation has been intact from the very beginning: to detect, analyze, to avoid imbalances, to keep track of the Transport Plan continuous and constant. I must personally thank all the staff of the Directorate-General for Mobility for this titanic work, not just for the implementation, consolidation, but for the constant follow-up to this Transport Plan. And to show a follow-up button that we've been following: since 2018, with the Inspection Service's own staff, 385 controls on transport services; in collaboration with the Civil Guard in integrated school transport, 1,631 controls since 2018. So, more than 2,000 transport services controls because we follow up and check out the transport plan. We also have and follow up on this Plan of Covid Regulations, because we were the first to bet on safe mobility, with specific protocols, that are adapting to the circumstances and the epidemiological situation at all times. So a check on service delivery and also evaluated by these continuous improvements, because, as I say, it is a living plan that is subject to further improvement and modernization. And the facts are there. They're facts they know, they know, and I'm not going to say anything new. There were reinforcements of the direct service lines The Horn-Ferrol, we increased fifty-five frequencies a week on the line The Horn-Ferrol; there are more direct lines now The Horn-Ferrol, Ferrol-A Coruña than before. We approach solutions to the municipality of Ames, when the service of the urban bus of the municipality of Santiago, where they know who rules in the Town Hall of Santiago, left without a bus the neighbors of Ortoño and Bugallido. We gave solutions, we gave alternatives. We also adapted the transport services between Culleredo and La Coruña to provide transport services to the rural centres of Culleredo and also new services to care for prison centres, which favor the 3,000 families who needed those bus services. In any case, to understand this whole process, I think we should also know how we got here. I think to understand the present requires to know at least something about the past and how we got here. And the truth is, it wasn't improvisation, it was the result of planning, coordination, work, of course. I always say that it's easy not to do anything — and then, if you want, we're more about it. But we're working, planning and improving on the transport plan. In 2009, four years of Bipartite with a European regulation which entered into force in December 2009, where all concessions expired; nothing was done in four years. And in six months this government had to give a solution. In four years, the Bipartite — I think it must be said; I know you don't like to talk about the Bipartite, but you have to know where we've seen it — has given no solution to the expiry of the concessions as a result of the European regulation which was known and in force. In six months we had to find a solution with a law that allowed continuity and that the buses were still running through Galicia, ensuring the provision of services but also employment. We need public services, we need to give this service to users, citizens, and we also need to have armoured and guaranteed employment in transport services. And we gave services and guaranteed stability and work in transport. A new choice in 2016 with a Supreme ruling. We also had to respond in record time to Law 10/2016, to shield the transport service, urgent measures to modernize public transport. And we've already been forced into a new plan of public transport in Galicia and working for this transport plan, which we are now running, is consolidated. They know that transport companies could have the legal option they have to give up, and they gave up 53% of those lines. And the truth is, we got to work and started that titanic job, titanic! I mean, since 2017, where we've been dealing with a lot of problems; not only administrative, legal, technical, — as I say — 2.3 million hours, three thousand four hundred lines of transport, but also political, because some of you and some political party wanted the buses to stay unturned. I think the truth is that Galicia, fortunately, has had transportation, has rolled the buses every day; not a single day have stopped the buses and continued to circulate. And we turned that problem into a great opportunity, we wanted to take advantage of the occasion, we took advantage of the occasion, and we planned the entire service map to modernise public transport in Galicia. And we face this transport plan with ambition and courage. I think bravery -- they have to recognize it -- because I insist again that it's easy not to do anything. We put ourselves to work and bravely face all the difficulties of this transport plan, taking into account the peculiarities of Galicia, which are very complex in the area of mobility: that geographical dispersion, the ageing of the population, those transport lines in our rural areas that are not economically profitable. It's a tremendous complexity, but we didn't improvise, work, plan, coordinate and put hands to work, knowing that we needed efficient public transport management. This is about rationalizing services. I hope no one gets away with needs being too many, but resources are limited. I believe that the entire public sector that has experience in public management knows that needs are a lot, but that resources are limited. When you manage, of course, you see that reality. The work was immense; the dialogue, also unbreakable; our willingness to dialogue arranged to the agreement; in direct and permanent contact with the municipalities, we ask them to transfer their needs to us. It's very important that the municipalities, which are closest to the citizens, transfer their needs, their worries, their proposals, which are all grateful to us. And I have to make an incision. There were local administrations who did a spectacular job, but there were other local administrations who had the silence for response, neither in public information, nor in the beginning of new services, and then an exceptional verbal attack when they did not do a job in planning and design, which would, of course, have been much better and would have been much more useful to the transport users, who are the ones we owe ourselves. They then had the opportunity to contribute to improving public transport. I think at that moment they gave up taking advantage of it. Our constant interlocutors, such as the Transporters' Association, trade unions, social groups, of course, users, are the ones that help us continue to improve the transfer of constructive proposals and further adapt transport to Galicia's needs. Thank you for all these approaches, which have been heard in a laborious process, where we proposed as a goal that we do not have buses without people and we do not have people without buses. So coordinate, plan those services and to avoid synergies, very important. As I said, resources are limited, and we have to take advantage of synergies, rationalize resources, and we have set in motion two fundamental modalities to multiply mobility opportunities in our rural areas. These two modes, on demand transport and the shared bus, are modalities that have demonstrated their success for Galician mobility and for the mobility of our rural population. I would say more: a magnificent solution to the mobility of our rural Galician population, which has 30,000 nuclei of population, and we have to take advantage of all that peculiarity that gives us school transportation and these empty squares. We optimize the services, we take advantage of these empty parking spaces of school transport occupied by travellers in low demand areas. I think it's fair also to recognize that work in other autonomous communities. Here we were not pioneers, there was already the bus shared in other autonomous communities, as in Castile and León, in Andalusia. And I want to thank that constructive work and that they gave us their experience in this modality. The shared bus allowed us to get to municipalities where before the bus arrived: Riotorto, Ribeira de Piquin, Carballeda de Valdeorras, The Mosque, etc.; he did not pass the regular long-distance bus and now he passes the bus to give more service. Since 2017 with that shared bus, in spite of the premonitions of some political party, there has been no remarkable impact and, as I say, it is a good alternative and a good way to give alternatives to mobility in rural areas. The facts are also clarifications: In 2017, 464 bus lines are shared; now 2.245. In 2017, 3,193 bus stops shared; now 23,758. Years ago there were 339,000 shared services; now there were 892,000. The average user average has also increased significantly in shared transport, of almost five thousand three hundred practically, now nearly twenty-seven thousand users. So it's a good welcome, a good alternative, a wonderful alternative to make mobility, especially in our rural areas. The bus on demand is also a necessary alternative that has figures showing that it is an important, necessary and spectacular option. We start at 473 lines, now we're at 2,200; 2,652 stops, now at 20,864. Thus, the bus on demand has also experienced an increasing success among users. So, two modalities that give solution to multiply mobility possibilities in Galicia and in our rural area. They know that the transport plan is implemented in different stages. It was necessary for it to enter into operation at different stages; we were renewing contracts that were still in force, bidding and adjudicing. There were concessionaires who some gave up. In any case, from 2017 until December 2020, which ended, it was a whole process. I have to say that since 2017 until December 2020 with all this work has been the biggest transformation for the modernization of Galician public transport and, of course, the history of Galicia in the field of public road transport, not guaranteeing and improving the provision of public service by long-distance buses, but also ensuring jobs. Jobs were guaranteed because we were pioneers and we have an agreement with exemplary union forces for staff subrogation and working conditions. Providing citizens with efficient and helpful transportation is our main objective and also ensuring jobs. And — as I say — the jobs there are figures: 3,158 jobs guaranteed with this transport plan, both drivers and school drivers. Targets achieved for the implementation of this Transport Plan: we activate 127 contracts, renew three thousand four hundred new bus lines, offer more than two million three hundred thousand hours, lots of stops, 57 million kilometres a year, move three million passengers a month on the long bus from Galicia, close last year with more than 24.6 million trips, which is almost twice as many trips as in 2016. It's, therefore, a titanic challenge. They are ambitious targets, but goals in which we move forward and in which three fundamental actions are directed in this Transport Plan: to promote mobility of people ensuring service delivery; to enhance the employment of public transport and also to reduce the number of private vehicles; to encourage intermodality, there are the intermodal stations for which we are betting, Santiago and Ourrense in service, Vigo and Pontevedra about to finish. We coordinate services for intermodality and with the arrival of high speed on December 21st, and we anticipate ourselves, we take the initiative and we already coordinate bus services, schedules, the arrival of high speed on December 21st. Let's get ahead of ourselves, set the schedules across the district of the Valdeorras Boat for connection to Gudina station. And we did the same thing for the connection to Ourense from Vigo and Pontevedra, from Lugo. So we anticipate adapting to the new needs that arise in Galicia for the mobility of the Greeks. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have managed to put in place a viable, sustainable, useful public transport adapted to the varying needs, which vary from the Greeks, attached to our territorial reality. And this process of modernization, for a long time, a lot of people working, I assumed a substantial improvement in interurban public transport by road, competition from the Galician Union. We improve services, we increase lines, we increase stops, we increase times, quality, security; we also improve comfort; we also increase bus accessibility to people with reduced mobility; we also increase more efficient and more modern buses. We extend the services, give much more territorial coverage thanks to that shared bus. And we're also moving forward in that technological modernization. We started with that single bus.gal web portal, which had about a million visits in 2021; the call center from eight to eight, twelve thousand calls in 2021; those canceling machines that allow these bonuses on the TMG card of the New People's Card. And we sink into our next challenge of the future, which is that unique area of transport in Galicia, in which we want to start its effective post and move forward in its implementation this very summer. And at the same time, of course, that challenge of continuing to bet on and work on the digitization and monitoring of transport to be able to inform real-time users of transport services. We also lower prices. We lower the bus prices and lower the fares generally and with a bet, with this transport dynamics, an equal price, equal conditions across Galicia; homogeneous, equitable and equal prices; a single price. And also special recurrent discounts on the transport plan. A wide range of transport bonds. For example, for 50 euros a month it is possible to move unlimitedly between Ferrol and La Coruña. So those who use these bonds a month between The Coruña and Ferrol, who, as I say, are the direct lines between The Coruña and Ferrol are more than before — you have to know how to add and how to stay, and if they want to pass the filter on the direct lines of transport, and I'm not going to get tired of saying it. And with these 50 euros of bond a month, the one who makes the itinerary every day will go out and get a little more than one euro out of that trip. Therefore, more direct frequencies between the Crown and the Iron and the lower prices. And also that TMG card, which offers an additional 10 percent discount on bus services. And there are transhipments that are also bouncing. In this issue, and also with this philosophy, we conceived the unique transport area of Galicia, which will assume one before and one after the advantages throughout the territory of our community. Of course, the New People's Card, which offers 21-year-olds the Interurban buses of the Union free of charge, the regular bus services free of charge. It's an opportunity for young people, a social conquest of the Galician youth in Galicia, but also a saving to families with that New People's Card, betting for that family Galicia, that green Galicia we work for. And without going much further, the New People's Card -- I think we all have to match -- is one before and after for the young Greek. We were pioneers in free transportation for those under the age of 21. It's a pity the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party don't take this initiative on urban buses where they rule or co-govern, because of course it's a social transport plan. We're not just talking about a transport plan, we're talking about an interurban public transport social plan by bus, by road in Galicia, which has met its objectives in particular by making it easier for young people to access essential services, those savings to families that avoid overcosts and, of course, allows savings between 500 and 1,800 euros a year, thanks to the New People's Card. And by setting another example also between La Coruña and Ferrol, because a student who goes to Coruña every day can save up to 1,350 euros thanks to this New People's Card, because, as I say, it is a real social transport plan. And we've seen a step-by-step improvement, made up of the transport plan, because it's from its conception of improvement it continues. The young Germans today, those under 21 years of age in all of Galicia, have that New People's Card. They know that we started in 2016 in the five transport areas for children under 19, then we increased to under 21 years in 2020 in those five transport areas. We were increasing it and extending it to all of Galicia. And since the past month of May 2021, all the young people in Galicia have that New People's Card to use regular urban public transport in our community, the competence of the Galician Union, in the three thousand four hundred lines free of charge. I think it's a success rounding up that New People's Card. It's 110,000 guys who have that New People's Card to travel freely on the buses in Galician Union. It's 3.2 million trips in 2021. It is EUR 4.3 million for us in the Galician Union to offer this transport to those under the age of 21. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am acting, step by step, we have been improving and modernizing public transport with unprecedented bets. Another pioneering measure was also to meet the needs of 3,000 families. In this regard, we have designed specific services to criminal centres in our community, which I have supposed to create specific lines for these families, for these people, by adjusting the schedules to visits times. So it's a bet decided by the transport plan. A determined bet on which we invest 80 million euros a year for this most modern public transport and which gives more mobility opportunities. And we want to continue extending to all of Galicia this discount system, which today is in the transport areas. With that area of transport of Galicia, this unique model for interurban mobility, with equal rates in all the municipalities of Galicia, advantages that today have the five transport areas, such as bonuses, free transhipments, recurrent discounts, I can tell you which transport area will assume, of course, one before and one after and which we want to extend all those benefits, those advantages to all of Galicia. Our priority is rural, to offer rural mobility. We will be able to announce to you that we will have special treatment in those municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, with a lower degree of urbanization, according to the calculations of the Galego Institute of Statistics. And in these municipalities I'm telling you that the processing for a single transport area will be those that adhere immediately to it. So these municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants are 119 municipalities, and immediately and automatically they can have discounts this summer of the advantages of all the bonuses of transport in Galicia. It's 150,000 citizens in these 119 municipalities in our rural areas, because we have priority attention to our rural areas. In particular, there are 69 councils of Ourense, 30 of Lugo, 15 of the Coruña and 5 of Pontevedra that will benefit from these advantages, with discounts of 50 cents on each trip, free transfers and discounts for recurrence. Just like the advantages that the metropolitan transport areas now have, we go up, and the priorities are our rural. This is a transport area that we will submit to public information in the coming weeks, which in summer we expect to approve the standard accession agreement. The accession of these municipalities will be automatically, immediately, so that they will be the first to be incorporated into the advantages of transport. So -- I insist -- the Galician Public Transport Plan is alive, it is constantly improving, constantly adapting, and the creation of this Galician transport area to which I have just mentioned is also in this line of constant improvement. We keep working and increasing services, betting on that sustainable mobility and in permanent contact with municipalities, with users, studying all the suggestions. Of course, the whole thing that's going to be moved, we're going to look at it and keep it in mind, of course. We don't create a client committee to put it in a drawer, but we listen, we analyze, we keep in mind and we keep improving the public service, because the adaptability we have is important. There are exceptional measures, specific protocols and guarantees of services. Because there are those who found in the pandemic and in the vault the perfect excuse to eliminate transport services. I am referring — you know — to Renfe, who depends on the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Perfect escort of the pandemic to cut services. I'm surprised they don't know. If they care so much about public transport in Galicia to give alternatives to mobility, then Renfe found the perfect excuse for reducing public transport services in Galicia. And while Renfe suppressed frequencies, Junta reinforced the transport lines; while Renfe suppressed frequencies, some were quiet. So I think that's the big difference. We, from the Gunda de Galicia, react quickly, because at the time the state of alarm was eliminated, we recovered 100 percent of the public transport services. Renfe today, the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Transport, can't say that. We've been pending at all times, with safe mobility, security protocols, and immediate recovery at the same time that the Government of Spain eliminated the state of alarm. Ten months after that moment, Renfe continues without all the services prior to the pandemic, he hasn't restored them, and we see how he's dismantling in many areas. We are particularly concerned — and I hope you will worry next to this bench — about the mobility strategy of the rural government of Spain, because it condemns our rural, it eliminates the trains from our rural area. I think it's something we should be concerned about, and I take advantage of and invite you to learn about the rural mobility strategy that the Government of Spain has transferred to autonomous communities. Of course, I think they should deepen and worry, because Galicia is eminently rural, and transport services in the rural train are also necessary. We keep moving forward, we want to continue to improve with future challenges that transport scan we're working on, where we're going to invest three million euros, because we want users to know about their transport services in real time. Another new step is the safe transport stops on autonomic roads, which is where we compete. We're going to spend three million euros on those safe stops, so that the waiting for transport is comfortable. So, working with progressive tapes, step by step, constantly improving, with future challenges, because for us it is an essential public service, a public service to offer mobility in this Galicia, which is eminently rural, and open to reviews. Of course, listening to reasonable and reasonable proposals, we thank them, of course, for yes, in order to adapt the needs, which often change and are changing, from public transport to users, and provision of dialogue and negotiation. I insist: constructive proposals, concrete proposals, which are always much more positive. I expect these constructive and concrete proposals to be among all - including the opposition bench - useful for public road transport in Galicia better fit. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u4	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the political groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. The truth is, you were leaving today a little bit of the script, because you weren't talking about the Central Government of Spain, but you had to get out of there saying that the Spanish Government had taken advantage of and taken -- you said -- as a perfect excuse for the pandemic to dismantle public services. You're about to talk about dismantling! Because I want to remind you that other administrations have found in the pandemic the perfect excuse for making certain types of family contracts. [[Applause]] That's what he's dismantling his party right now. So, Counselor, I think you're taking a few lessons here today. You began your intervention by saying that I came here today at my own request. But we all knew that there was an appearance requested by the Galician Nationalist Block, that precisely, of course, you did with your appearance the request yourself at the last hour because it was to cover up that appearance that had instituted the Galician Nationalist Block, which asked to speak of these breaches in the contracts awarded in the public transport of Galicia. You haven't talked about it, and you've come here to make slogans, to say that -- for the words of the advisor -- it's an effective, competitive transport, adapted to the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's what you said about Galicia's public transport plan. At some point in his speech he said it was a steady success. But you, Counselor, live in parallel reality. Because the PSdG doesn't say so. How many users and users have been protesting, claiming improvements, claiming that they are being breached, that they are deleting lines, that are deleting schedules, that the true information is not given? So, those people, what are you lying about? It's just that the Socialist Party doesn't say it, it's the users and users of public transport in Galicia. Because you said, "The premonitions of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party with this Galician Transport Plan have not been fulfilled." Of course, the premonitions have been fulfilled! They've met the relative premonitions... of course they have! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Users and users are saying this Galician transport plan does not work. He came to talk about the workers and said that the subject of subrogation of the workers had led to an exemplary process. But let's see: how many of these issues have come to the trial of the subject of workers' subrogation? So if it worked great, they wouldn't be legalized. It's just that we're also going to talk about those small transport companies that were left out for a pure and tough decision of the council itself. We were also confronted by the Socialist Party that we were not constructive in the development of this Public Transport Plan in Galicia. You are lying, Counselor, because colleagues who have been here before also in this parliamentary group have given every opportunity to be able to improve this Public Transport Plan in Galicia. They even went along with the associations and the sector, and they collected users' demands, which moved to Galicia's own Union. But you've always been oblivious. It was often when colleagues and colleagues from this Socialist Parliamentary Group told the Galician Council that this public transport plan would have to be improved because, if not, it was going to give the possibility that later the Union might be very discreet in awarding contracts. And we saw that, Counselor, then also met. Then you got out talking about the Bipartite, and he said that some people like to talk about those years of progress in Galicia. And we of course like to talk about these years of the Socialist Government and the Galician Nationalist Block in Galicia; but it's just that you like it so much more because you're the one who pulls out, in particular, on many occasions that time. What did you guys do? Well, you guys extended concessions illegally, and that's what justice told you. That's what the Galician Union did. And then he calls for constant dialogue to the municipalities. But how does this ongoing dialogue with the municipalities intend if the Galician Union gives them two or three days in time so that they can make allegations? And you know that even these deadlines were in the middle of Christmas. So, Counsellor, that's the dialogue they're looking for with the Town Councils. So we see how this Galician public transport plan, which, as we have already said on occasion, cost more than twelve million euros, and I am not talking about the adjudication of contracts for the provision of these services, but the development and implementation of this Galician public transport plan, does not solve the needs of users and users. Because what you pick up in theory and little paper corresponds to reality after all. And that's more: even what they pick up on paper, on their own recruitment demands, doesn't even even meet the needs of users and users. So we're asking them to reconsider and reform these recruitment requirements. But, further away, it's not even if they're meeting those vows, it's not even if they're fulfilling those contracts that were acquitted. No, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you talked a lot about the Ferro-La Coruña line and I was alluding to what I had to be able to add. Well, I'll tell you data: The demand for this Ferrol-A Coruña offer required sixty-six minimum expeditions on working days, which together with 10% mandatory increase would allow them to be increased to seven additional services; therefore, seventy-three. For example, if we looked at the schedules on the website of the company adjudicate Monbus on a recent date last week, there were sixty-six expeditions between cities, Ferrol-A Coruña, sixty-six. And those sixty expeditions are after that announcement made by the Galician Board at the beginning of the year, in which it said that the Board will activate tomorrow the reinforcement of eleven daily services: "The Board activates Monday the reinforcement of bus connections between A Coruña and Ferrol, which will involve fifty five more direct services a week. It will increase eleven expeditions per highway every day from Monday to Friday, an increase of more than thirty-five percent in the first-hour morning and afternoon slots." Of course, we have this announcement; so, very well, eleven more services. But let's analyze. On the one hand, the Galician Union increases in eleven services — as the Galician Union itself says — the connections between A Coruña and Ferrol by bus. On the other hand, if we look at the page of the law firm, it's sixty expeditions that we have today. Let's remember that in the prayer the minimum daily expeditions were sixty-six, with which not even with this improvement of eleven services we are performing those sixty-six minimum daily services that are required at the recruitment service. In addition, if we increase that 10% that can have administration, we see that the reduction is twenty-four daily trips with that 10% increase. It's just that, Counsellor, not even with that announcement that they made eleven more daily services if you're meeting the minimum envisaged in the recruitment service. But this was not a timely failure, but it was repeated week after week, month after month, until the level of anger of users and users, and also of the mayors of the surrounding area, they made the Board of Galicia do this theater to say that it was increasing and that it was reinforcing daily services in eleven. But it is not even — I repeat — with those eleven daily services you reach the minimum of recruitment. So you've been cheating on the surroundings mayors for a long time, and you've been fooling users and users. But the worst thing is, you don't do your inspection and control work. Why don't they force companies to fulfill the contract they've signed? Because on the basis of these pleas and tenders, those contracts were awarded to certain companies, right? So at least they're required to fulfill this contract. I'm not going to get into what you could or couldn't be in charge of those contracts, because I don't fit in, because that would correspond to the courts, because you know that cause is judicialized. But what we ask them to do is at least do their inspection and control work. And on the assumption that it is detected that there are breaches on the part of this company is sanctioned, because that's your obligation as advisor or, if not, I don't understand what the role is. Furthermore, if you had done this task of inspecting and sanctioning if there were breaches, and eventually resolving those contracts, if that was the case, surely this transport plan would work much better, it would be useful for users and users, it would also be useful for the workers, who are demanding on many occasions because they are not scrupulously fulfilling their labor rights. And on the other hand, of course, I wouldn't let those small companies out of play that they couldn't opt for that auction. Because if I don't even ask them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u6	You have to finish, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u7	...—end, President—not even if you ask the company to meet what is envisaged in the prayers, it's normal for these companies to be able to present even major voluntary improvements because they know that Galicia's own board won't claim those voluntary improvements because it doesn't even claim what's mandatory for prayers. So, Counselor, there's a lot of work left to be done. And not from this parliamentary group, but from the users and users of the public transport service in Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor Mr. Ríos Santôme.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, good morning. You spoke of a word — it used it several times — it was the word "apocalypse", which, you think, the BNG and the Socialist Party were the ones that predicted for their transport plan. Besides, it's a word that I liked very much because I quickly saw a film director — since I'm quite a fan — who had a famous trilogy that fits perfectly into the question of what we're going to talk about now, it's Francis Ford Coppola and he's talking about three films. I've only got ten minutes but we can draw some conclusions and quite fundamental elements from the other interventions. For the People's Party the important thing is the family, it has always been, and we're seeing it these days, it's called PP, it's called Iberdrola, Naturgy, Ence or Monbus, as it is the case that brings us today. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Both for Coppola and for PP the important thing is the family. We have on this question of what we are going to talk about here today — which you have not commented at all, I suppose that in the second intervention after the bus press round will be going into question — we see how this situation of non-compliance in the execution of the contracts leaves three major implications in this country and one responsible: the binomy or the inseparable dynamic duo which is the Junta and the Monbus Group. Three affected are, on the one hand, users and users; on the other hand, workers and workers; and, on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises. And why would we say that? We say this because the whole country is on its way to war, these three sides are on their way against their transport plan and, above all, the monopolistic practice that is leading this situation to a limited moment. Users and users, workers and workers, small and medium-sized enterprises that are demonstrating and mobilizing throughout the country, for every corner of the country, to tell them that it is not, that it is already enough and that they want to have their rights armored. [[Applause]] As they say exactly the papers you bring here is read. The papers, Counselor, they have everything, but in reality they also like to impose their criteria, and sometimes they have to go down to reality and see what's going on outside of what the papers put. Users and users continue to complain about the reduction of services such as unjustified removals and changes, eliminations of schedules, removals of stops, and also taking into account their own regulations of the Transportation Act — a transport model that knows we do not share—. But even you do not perform by leaving inspection, control and sanction functions the values and social and democratizing criteria that have to have public transport as much as a public service. So workers and workers are also seeing their laminated rights. When we saw offers from this business group, where, for example, in the offer to win according to contracts, you were talking about the case of Coruña, Ferrol, the Marines, that UTE Hercules North. And on his own offer, this UTE was talking about the employment of drivers, the people who drive buses, and the people who accompany the school transport of a hundred percent of indefinite jobs. I don't know if you saw yesterday in the press, I was going out in the voice of Galicia, the mobilization that's preparing the school transport attendants because their rights aren't being armoured, because they're working for hours with subrogations, with a reduction of hours in their contract. And there are people who are even working half an hour, who don't count the waiting time between boys and girls riding on buses and getting off, just tell them the time they're on buses. They're hiring via ETT; all these companies are hiring via ETT. And the unions stand by saying that they're active and passive, with a lot of complaints. I have here a folder full of complaints and I have there on my seat another folder full of complaints, which put all these irregularities white on black. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we're talking about irregularities, which in addition involve termination of the contract itself if they are controlled and inspected. We're talking about duality of vehicles in the different concessions, which it's not possible to do; we're talking about that a large part of the fleet of this company, as I said before, which already carries the monopoly practically with almost eighty percent of the lines of this whole country given to the same business group, we see that buses are not complying with the regulations they had to meet for as long as they were of age, that they exceed much the maximum age, as they have to do with the environmental issue, as they have to do with security services. And there we all lost. Then they lose the users, they lose the workers, and they also lose the small and medium-sized companies, who see how this business group earns their concessions through low-expensive, low-improvements that then, on the one hand, they don't meet and on the other hand nobody makes them comply. That's the big problem we're detecting. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being closed because they can't compete against something that will then not be fulfilled. And it's just that today this business group has to stop taking vehicles, duplicates them in the lines, that it's all completely registered -- I have a lot of graphic documentation here that believes it, too -- and we see how it really doesn't have the ability. Its model of great lots to benefit large companies, not even large companies, most companies in this transport country can't even do it on a regular basis. You've got to cheat on everything that's happened and because there's to be, doubling these lines, you don't have any adapted vehicles at the age level or the safety or environmental conditions required of you, because you can't assume all the volume you've given them. And you keep falling into the same game again and again and giving it more, and more, and more contracts than then they don't meet. Because it's very good what you said on your line enlargement papers, stops and so on, on paper is very good, but then it doesn't actually work out. They're not even meeting the vehicle registrations on contracts, will they then meet all the stops, all the lines and everything in time? [[Applause]] It's not done. And not only at the workers' level and at the workers' level, it's not only the escorts of the school transport, who are completely trampled on by their work rights, but the drivers themselves report how one day after another they are on a line, tomorrow they're in another. And statements from workers and workers who didn't even know what company they were working for. They were changing contracts between small companies in the same group, and they didn't even know who they were working for. Today you're doing this line, tomorrow you get an app and you have to blow up what you don't even know about stops and itineraries. An absolute lack of control over the convolence of the Galician Union. In any case, for the benefit of the company, it doesn't put the necessary means to meet the bids it wins. Well, we're not going to go into recruitment issues today, about how contracts go, and about a lot of other things because it doesn't play today. You can play at another time and surely touch, because at some point you have to skip the hare in this country, Counselor. At some point, whatever. Today, for example, it had called for a mobilization of small transport companies, which could finally not be. They probably also received some kind of message or did some kind of work there, which seems completely logical and normal, in a normal way for how this Galician Board works. He spoke before the monopoly. And speaking of this issue, to me, this subject reminded me very much -- I don't know if you know -- the trial in which the U.S. Prosecutor's Office finally put Microsoft at the end of the 1990s for this kind of monopolistic behavior, and it had a lot of similarities, especially what it had to do with how they made a market share and how they were doing to have more and more contracts. The problem is that in this case this is done with the convolence of the Galician Union directly. I mean, they're not companies in that own free market or free competition where it's done. And this never ceases to be evident. He used to talk about Coppola, now I'm talking about someone else, which is the very conception of the state and the definition of the state Lenin made. Well, like that class domain tool, especially the playback and survival of the status quo and the ruling class. And that's what we see here. What we see here is that the Galician Union, not only in the case of Monbus, but we can talk about the case of other energy companies and others, and the People's Party all they do is rule for big companies, for the big companies that spoil us, for their friends. We go back to the beginning with Francis Ford Coppola and that wonderful trilogy that left us for the history of cinema: the important thing is family. [[Applause]] We are asking you, Counsellor, to bring them down to reality, to inspect and control and to sanction, to enforce contracts that are signed and offers that have won those contracts. That's what we asked him to do. We don't ask for anything else today, but those offers and those contracts are scrupulously fulfilled. That's what users and users want, what workers and workers want, and what these small and medium-sized businesses want, too. When a company or an "je" company wins a public tender, a public contract, that buys it and that buys it scrupulously, Counselor. That's what we ask you today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. Thank you, Counselor, for your appearance and for bringing light on this matter which from opposition groups try — as it has been customary in recent legislations — to sink into any kind of theory. I would like to begin by congratulating you on your work — I had the opportunity to tell you at the Committee on Budgets this year, at Commission 3rd — for your courage, for your determination to face a problem that we had in Galicia and for trying to put order and improve Galician public transport. If you'll excuse me, I'd also like to make a little criticism, and I hope you don't mind me. And the criticism is that what's just produced in Galicia is a real transport revolution. It's a real transport revolution that, after listening to the two voices today, only gives me reason. Why? Because before the transport system began, what they were predicting was that apocalypse, which would fail absolutely, that there was no chance, that people would stay at home and that everything was a disaster. Today, after listening to them, they are beginning to change their criticisms. And now what you're going to say to this parliament is that there's someone who has problems or there's some group of people who somewhere has problems with a frequency. Of course, this is important, and we have to try to solve each and every one of the incidences that we're going to have. But let's go aside. No one escapes the characteristics of Galicia: that dispersion, the rural area we have, aging, which makes it especially difficult to design this plan. And far from looking elsewhere, your team and yourself decided to try to solve the problem. Only by trying would I deserve the recognition of the opposition parties, but they are to theirs, which is — as I said before — to sink. Instead, there was only that rosary of failed premonitions, which at every stage would be a disaster. They try to convert any anecdote into a category, while they don't talk about the real problems of transport in Galicia, such as highways or trains. That's why either of the two spokespersons were silenced. Allow me, Counsellor, to tell you that, indeed, this Galician public transport plan allowed you to take the bus to areas where you never had the chance to get on a bus before. And that's probably why many of the Members who are here don't care about it, but a lot of people who live in rural areas who can now get on a bus is really important. [[Applause]] I know that you don't want to admit it because it's self-criticism from the beginning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look: it's impossible to go back because the bases are already centred, Counselor. From 927 lines to 3,436. But did you look at the numbers, did you pay a minimum of attention? So look at numbers: from 20,557 stops to 53,168 stops; from a million and a half services to 2.3 million services. [[Applause]] Has security increased in public transport in Galicia? Of course I do. The average age of buses is much lower. Equity increased, prices homogenized, prices lowered for all users. Besides, for all the Greeks this equity is increasing. There are new transport models, not only are we talking about the traditional lines as you had when you ruled, but we're talking about shared transport, because we have to take advantage of empty squares on buses. Again, many of these Members will not know. I was from the rural surroundings and when I was going to my school I was going because I was lucky to have the school near the house, I watched the buses pass empty with ten or fifteen boys on each line. Can't you take advantage of those buses? Isn't it right that rural people can get up on those buses and share the bus to get to the center of the county? Isn't he all right? Does that sound bad to you? What's wrong with all this model? Do you think it's wrong to transport on demand? We have passed from 3,979 users to 12,000 users in 2021. An average of 1,700 people per month. Do you feel bad about New People's Card? They don't say anything at all. In this case it's more: they do the opposite, because in the cities where they rule they don't join. In cities where they govern, they don't allow those under 21 to travel for free. But they have the indecency to come to Parliament and ask that for children under 30 be free of charge, but where they rule they don't. That's the formula you have. [[Applause]] Are you against setting new lines to prison centers, favouring 3,000 families -- we're not going to say families, so they won't be angry -- family members of people who are there? Do you think that's wrong, too? What's wrong with them? The only thing they've done since the first moment is to be catastrophic. That evil one that was going to take over the council and the end of the world was coming. I'm sorry I haven't had the interpretative skills of other Members of the BNG, but that's what they said since the first day. That syndrome, the worse, the better it'll be for them. And it's true that during these dates all they do is take advantage of each of the incidences that can appear in those nearly three thousand five hundred lines across Galicia to try to make a category of each of them. This was a living plan, said the advisor. It's true. He spoke to the Town Councils, and there were Town Councils who took part and gave some contribution to the plan, and there were other Town Councils who did not. And by chance those behind the banners, most of them didn't participate to collaborate in the plan's implementation. Why, you'd have to ask. There they are. But where they always like it is behind the sign. It's true that a lot of lines have also appeared. You know a lot about the transport between Ferrol and La Coruña. There were lines that were not in any concession, which were discretionary contracts between different groups. Some of them came to talk to me. They were MP workers and, as they knew me about the MP, they came to talk to me, the problem was solved. You know what? They used to pay 140 euros a month for that discretionary service. Now pay what the advisor said, 50 euros a month. And it wasn't in the concessional title. [[Applause]] And when we talked to the municipalities to tell us which lines were being used or which lines were needed, there was no contribution from these municipalities. The result is that today we have more lines, more stops, more travelers, more security, more modernity and more savings for all users, and therefore less price. I don't know what the problem is. They probably don't want to collaborate. Why, I repeat, do not enter those cities on New People's Card? The Block is ruling or co-governing almost all. Why don't they? Why does the Socialist Party not adopt that solution? Don't you think it's easy? Of course, today we had to listen to Mrs. Otero here saying that we weren't able to manage and that there was a problem. Look: in Santiago city there is a line, Santiago Airport, which has been waiting for more than a year to be pulled out and bid. Do you know where the workers are? At home. They are not hired by ETT; they would like to be hired by an ETT. They're home. And the Town Hall of Santiago takes year and peak to draw a line between the city and the airport, and he's incapable. And do you come to teach a government that is able to remove three thousand five hundred lines? [[Applause]] But who do you want to fool? A line, Mrs. Otero; it is unable to draw a nail to hire a line. And it's more: the workers are at home. Those workers don't speak the Block, which also rules in Santiago; no, it doesn't speak there. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Murmurs.]] Hope I'm going with you now, I'm gonna stay a minute. The block doesn't talk about these workers. And the PSOE looks elsewhere, but in a year it's unable to draw a line. And we have to listen to BNG's voicer, who comes here insinuating I don't know how many things, to say that Junta is, I don't know what a company, which gives him all the contracts, and comes here saying barbarities. Because who helped the Town Hall of Lugo or urban transport? Ah!, the transport area claims the BNG in Lugo. And it turns out it's sold to the same company that sells the Galician board. And you come here to teach what lessons? [[Applause]] Ask your Lugo comrades. How could you have the face of coming here to make accusations without any kind of evidence and throw shit all over the place when you do the same thing? This is the same case of residences. Public residences with people hired there by the administration; now yes, when BNG does, then indirect management. This is BNG. Didn't I know? Well, they'll explain. Because this is what they've spent all this time -- it's finished, president -- since the Union had the strength to try to solve the whole transport system with more than 3,000 lines. If you had to do that, the Greeks would be taken. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u12	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u13	Thank you, President. I, of course, come to this chamber with the satisfaction of working in an important and determined way to make the biggest bet for public transport in the history of our community, in the matter of interurban public transport by bus. And fundamentally disappointed by the opposition bench, because nothing they said here is useful for the needs of the Greeks in transport. Mr. Riós — I understand what I say — you haven't come here to talk about transport, because you don't know about transport. Then, therefore, he came to talk and make a noise. When there are no transport issues, and if you talk about such things, you don't know about transport. [[Murmurs.]] Allow me to reflect, which I think I have the right to transmit, of course, what I think. And I think you came here to miss an opportunity to talk about transport constructively, to praise, to confuse and accusations that come at nothing. I think it would help a lot more than his interventions were constructive and serious public transport. I do not know your concrete proposals today; of your speeches I have heard I know nothing of your concrete proposals. Explain how you would manage nearly three thousand and five hundred lines of transport and 2.3 million hours of long-distance bus in Galicia, and meet 30,000 nuclei of population. And they were talking here about no time for public information. I, Mrs. Otero, can hand you the letter I recently transferred to the mayor of Betanzos. In July 2019 we submitted public information to the operation projects of Galicia's transport plans, twenty working days. The Town Hall of Betanzos has not come up with any observations. December 2020, they start operating those transport lines that you wanted to do, and the Betanzos Town Hall and others are getting closer. How about you? Do you think that's what a public service has to do that really cares about public transport? Neither in the public information in July 2019 nor when they started operating, they sent him the services. And now I hear a lot of noise, and I write, which I've already answered, and I'm worried about the defaults, too. You don't know the works of Sun and Sea, that put us a direct bus lane for the time to travel; you don't know what they're affecting. And it's the government where you are. Mr. Rivers, I think history is important to know her. Maybe it wasn't here, but it was disgusting. In 2017, when BNG was the spokesperson and spokesman of the employer here. Yes, yes. They're ashamed, I'm not surprised. But it was bochurnous. When we come here we muster up courage to deal with this issue — and they know it personally, they know it personally — and we are bubbling the arguments of the opposition bench, because they were completely spokesmen of the employer. And while you were spokespersons of the employer, we settled contracts, sanctioned and ended new contracts. Therefore, bochurnous. And I'm not surprised because you come here to criticize everything. But what do you have in the field of public transport? What do you have in the field of public transport, Mr. Rios? What did they do for public transport in Galicia? There's a colleague of his from Pontevedra. I think I'm talking about Pontevedra, Ferrol... do you see how he doesn't like us talking about bus transportation in Pontevedra? It's because there's a very important asset in public transport in the Galician Nationalist Block that can't manage public transport. But I'm going into details. There in Ferrol, where the Socialist Party governs, and in Pontevedra, where the BNG governs, the urban bus better do it to Junta. It'll be because they trust us much more. Because that of working for public transport, putting lines, stops, schedules, what do I know? So, of course, public transport -- we're colloquially talking -- about Ferrol and Pontevedra urban, you see that you have to take it to Galicia because your arms are fallen, in Ferrol, the Socialist Party, in Pontevedra, the BNG. When we start with the whole renovation process we talk to the mayor: hey!, by law he's obliged to make an urban transport, as is done in Lugo, as is done in Santiago. It takes advantage of the remodeling of the lines for urban transport, which was unnecessary. That's right, he started saying in 2018 that he's going to solve transport by four taxis on demand. It passes 2018, 2019, 2020... 2022 and is with pilot tests. So I don't want to think of three thousand five hundred lines of transport, 2.3 million euros in your hands, when with four taxis at the demand, they're going to be destroyed. They are appalled and unable, and they still see if we do pilot tests, to see how it goes from the year 2018 to four taxis on demand. [[Applause]] So, I don't think they have any means to give transport lessons. They're more constructive, more positive. And humility, of course, is always grateful and positive. And I humbly tell them, honestly, that they compare. I don't know the comparison of three thousand five hundred lines of transport, 2.3 million euros of hours... come here to say that everything is a disaster, when their downside, the downside of this bench, are four taxis to demand and that have been running since 2018 with pilot tests. And I think that now, of course, as the buses of the Galician Junta do the city bus in Pontevedra and you can use it for new people, for the BNG of Pontevedra is a wonderful urban transport. Hurry up. Does the Galician Board do the bus marvelously or not? I think they need to clarify with the BNG of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] So I have to be suspicious of BNG's revenue for public transport. I didn't hear any, but in case you have some, I have to be suspicious. What we agree with is the subject of the train. Even though your proposal to pay for health money, because the train deficits think it's not positive or useful for Galicia. There's little talk here about the railroad. I believe that if we came here to talk about public transport, about mobility, it is important to talk about what is of concern to the users primarily of Ferrolterra, which is rail transport, which is a structural problem and is a total lack of political will to solve it. And I am surprised that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party in Galicia, Mayor of the Bridges, President of the Parliament, in railway matters for Ferrolterra, says that the Government of Spain must be made aware. That is the level of requirement in the field of transport, in the field of mobility. And look at what we did about public transport. So what do you want me to tell them? We can also talk about Ferrol. The socialist mayor of Ferrol is not doing urban transport, he has to take on and do Galician board with his buses, and Ferrol's boys can also use that New People's Card. Therefore, the Union is much more than aware of public transport. Yes, we're not going to bother the heads of Madrid, the minister, Pedro Sanchez. Let's say it's more than a railway awareness. So I think talking about public transport is much more than we heard here. We pay special attention to Ferrolterra. And, of course, when contracts fail, Mr. Ríos, we know what we have to do. I think we have a lot more experience in public management. So I think I'd ask for something more serious. We were the first to solve contracts when you were employers' speakers in 2017. In Ferrolterra, since January, fifty-five new services, and on January 24 we also reinforced and increased. Tomorrow we're going to set up more reinforcements for Ares, Mugardos, Mine and Bergondo. And you know, because previously there were private agreements with specific groups to carry out public transport that was discretionary; not interurban public transport, but a discretionary transport that paid twice a month. Now, they have direct public transport supported by the Galician Union with benefits of a forty percent less at the price, free of charge for those under the age of 21 and, of course, more direct services The Courña-Ferrol, Ferrol-A Coruña than before. Therefore, much more than conscientious, ladies and gentlemen, by public transport here in Galicia. In the matter of non-compliance of schedules, in the line Ferrol-A Coruña, which I also heard several events and several themes, there are the works of the Sun and the Sea. It's in his hands that the Government delegation has a bus lane and therefore solved it, since the operators are transferring to us that they have retentions of up to thirty minutes as a consequence of those works. I didn't want to see myself, if it was the Council of Galicia who had done that work, which I would have to hear. With regard to transport, Vigo. What am I going to say about the Vigo Town Hall? Well, as far as transport is concerned, I can't talk, I don't know... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] I don't think it's for that attitude. Of course, it extends in an opaque way and through the back door in full pandemic to the same concessionaire, which was so, that we did not bid everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think he's there. And labor conflicts are there and users' complaints are there as well in urban transport in Vigo. In Santiago, we know: concession expired. They don't know how to renew it, for a line at the airport they've been in for more than a year, they've left the municipality of Ames out of service without notice. So, I insist that you don't have a lot of means to concreteize, to seriously address public transport in Galicia. [[Applause]] As I said, three thousand five hundred lines of transport, over 50,000 stops, 2.3 million hours in public transport by bus. And the Socialist Government cuts railway services in our community, changes schedules with the arrival of the AVE, which, of course, does not meet the needs of internal users and the internal mobility of Galicia. I think he mocks the users when he says he creates a customer committee. I wanted to see this bench if I say that we set up a customer committee to care for the users we care about every day, that we thank their arrivals, for making a better public transport. If we were to say that we created a customer committee, I think, of course, their attitude would be different. I have here the letter from the user manager, who tells me he's totally disappointed by Renfe's schedules, that he doesn't adapt any. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows the House a letter.]] So here are the things and user ratings. We, as we have self-criticism, and we also do our quality of service surveys, from the Unity of Galicia, we did a... yes, yes, quality of service, to see exactly what users need, what users think. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The quality of the interurban transport service in Galicia has almost eight qualifications; therefore, it is very good qualification. And what most indicates better users are stops. That's why we're going to act on the stops, safe stops on the roads of the Galician Union. Will you act on your roads in safe stops?, will you also act on the municipalities in safe stops? I ask, because that's what we've qualified the users, who ask for more improvements in the stops, and there we're going to act. [[Applause]] You can also read — if you want me to send it to you — the letter that the Secretary General of Prison Institutions of the Government of Spain wrote to me, in which he congratulates us on the effort to attend to those five prisons. I'm going to read to you the letter from the mayor of Pontedeume: "From the Town Hall of Pontedeme we very much appreciated the final proposal for reorganisation of the final proposal for the reorganization of mobility needs with an increase of 11% of the number of expeditions, with 35% being direct. Even so, we thank you for taking into account the claims made from this county, well individually, well collectively, with the municipalities, neighbours... and so on. No customer committee. I mean, we listen, we listen and we don't give any approach by analyzing them; we analyze them all. So that's our work of continuous improvement. For us, sustainable mobility is the cornerstone. I wonder what is the Socialist Party's model in the field of mobility, do you have to pay for entering the cities? The price of fuels drowns; here we have the price of fuels, the spectacular rise of 20% in three years. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows the House a graph.]] The rural mobility strategy... yes, fuel, which affects public transport. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows the previous plot to the House again.]] I don't think they're meant to despise these reflections. The mobility strategy which leaves Galician rural and which aims to eliminate medium-distance train services in Spain; therefore, it is the autonomous communities that are able to provide rural service. So sometimes also consortia, which means new structures, new managers, presidents. Here the alternative of the Socialist Party's mobility — if I may allow it — is that it is a right and a social plan, which is what we have, whatever is a luxury article, i.e., fares on the highways, pay for entering cities, fuels in the clouds, remove trains in the countryside. So what we bet is for a social transport plan, with more stops, more schedules, more services, more bonuses, increasing bonuses with the first transportation area in rural areas, in the municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, because so we understand the alternative of our mobility model. We will continue to work with the challenges ahead, which is digitization, with that unique transport area, so that the one hundred and ninety-nine municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants will be the first to have those bonuses and the advantages they have today the five metropolitan transport areas. And, for my part, little more; I'm left with the closing shift. I hope they're constructive, concrete, because the recipes I've heard so far, of course, are nothing useful to improve the transport service in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u14	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u15	Thank you, President. Counsellor, here we have a problem, because you are not able to recognize the evasives, the problems in public transport in Galicia. If they don't recognize them, it's very difficult to put solutions to these problems. What made it very clear to me is that users and users who are constantly reporting these problems lie, said Mrs. Counselor and Mr. Calvo too. Besides trivializing these problems, because Mr. Calvo says there are some people who have problems, some groups. But, Mr. Calvo, that's the whole autonomous community. I've analyzed this line of Ferrol-A Coruña; I have no more time to analyze more lines, but since the problems are taking place throughout our autonomous community, in the four provinces. So something will have to be done. It's not because you're being denounced either the Galician Nationalist Block or the Socialist Party, it's because you're being denounced by users and users. And you said that the intention of the German Government was to have a useful plan and to meet these needs. So, if that's the will, I think what you have to do is listen to those users and those users, because it seems you only receive letters with complaints about the functioning of services that are competent to the central government. But, then, those letters sent to you by the users and users of Galicia's public transport aren't enough? If you don't get those letters by opening the papers, there's trouble every day in some neighborhood. Counsellor, you have dedicated yourself here today, above all in this second turn, to talk about something that is not within the competence of the Government of Galicia, which is what we wanted to talk about today also from the Socialist Party, because it was all about non-compliance by the Central Government, the mayors and mayors of the great cities of Galicia, all except Ourense, we are not going to upset our friend. So, Counselor, I know that today, these days, they're looking a lot at Madrid, but we're going to focus on Galicia. Of course they're looking at Madrid, looking at who's going, seeing who's left... It should have been for that mission that he was told to go there to overthrow his head of ranks, Mr. Married. [[Applause]] Because also little or almost nothing talked about Galician public transport and the problems we have with it. Mr. Calvo was asked what was wrong with us. One of the things that seems to us to be wrong is that these recruitment fees are tailored to the needs of a company and those are not tailored to the needs of users and users. That's what's wrong with us. And what we think, of course, is very, very bad, because it has an impact on the quality of the service, is that the Galician Union does not do its duty to inspect and control the fulfilment of these recruitment requirements. That's what's wrong with us. [[Applause]] We're not asking you for anything, Counselor, whatever your jurisdiction. And then he keeps trying to cheat on citizenship, manipulate citizenship by saying that you are the best and that they increase the lines of service between Ferrol and La Coruña; they give eleven more daily services. I repeat, Counselor: they're deceiving citizenship. Then recognize me if there are no sixty-six services in the minimum compulsory service in prayer, tell me you don't. Because I know how to read, add these figures that are so small, too. Thus, sixty-six mandatory, with an additional 10%, which has the availability of administration to use, seventy-three, with those eleven plus sales of counseling, are sixty-six; from sixty-six to sixty-six are six, and from sixty-seven to seventy-three are also missing. Therefore, Counselor, you are manipulating and deceiving. And then bring me out here the letter from the mayor of Pontedeme. Keep manipulating. Of course the mayor of Pontede told me that he recognized that... but let me talk... that he would appreciate that improvement of 11% more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But when was that letter?, before or after it was deleted without notice lines, that timetables were changed, that students were left without a bus, that they were more than half an hour at the stop waiting for them to be picked up? When was that letter? When did you tell him they were going to increase the services by 11% or when the mayor of Pontede came to me how it really worked? It was before, because you sold that 11%, which said you were going to put on the table, and suddenly, without notice, what you did was all the opposite, crop lines and services. [[Applause]] Therefore, Counsellor, I do not allow you to manipulate and remove that letter, which is true that there was it before the lines were deleted. So can you tell me that a mayor is going to be happy that lines and services are suppressed in his county and surroundings and that he's going to thank you for cutting services? Man, you don't believe that. So we're the only ones we ask you to do it very easily: do your homework, check that you're actually fulfilling those contracts that you've been charged with, because if you actually do this inspection work, and in the event that there are alleged breaches, sanctions, as soon as public transport in Galicia is going to improve a lot. Because, on the one hand, the company that's in charge of that contract will ensure that every day the service is better and, of course, it will have an impact on the quality of the service for users and users. I don't think it's that hard, Counselor. If you'd used a little of the time you spent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u17	...in insulting and placing duties on the central government, devoting a small part of that time to its inspection and control work, would greatly improve public transport in Galicia. It's advice, you can take it or you can't. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Ríos Santôme.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, also in a colloquial tone, you came here to this second intervention to throw out, literally out!, outside to blame the Town Councils, the Central Government, this and the other. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But I don't know if, perhaps, I haven't read the whole call or whatever. [[Applause]] Well, I've registered an audience to talk about something, and I'm sticking to that topic in a hundred percent; who didn't touch it, it was you. So don't put me on duty and don't come here again to oppose the opposition, because that says very little to a counselor. Let him come to the plenary to make opposition to the opposition says very little. And you have those who believe me so you can talk about transportation? Well, no less than the confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks when I'm here in this parliament. Therefore, the only masters and bosses of the BNG are the Greek people, neither more nor less. [[Applause]] I understand that you don't talk about these issues more openly because, perhaps, you have other masters or other patterns that don't allow it or that don't mind disturbing what might happen. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Calvo, too, on the same line. I think you must also have received the warm touch that comes out. He came here to make stretchers and warmers. But what is completely spoken—and you know it—is to talk like talking a lot of times about residences or in this case about what you've talked about, about the Town Hall of Lugo, when you impose a frame, and we're forced to play on it, and then you're told that it's our fault to play in your frame. Go for God's sake, Mr. Calvo! I think there are other arguments that you can use, that you're not so fake and that, above all, you see, that cheating is a little ugly. I think that's something we have to start practicing, or stop fooling. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the subject -- like what the council councillor talked about -- I don't know that, from the council of I don't know how much, eluding directly from what I brought here today in this plenary, and so you came also forced by BNG's request to attend, if I hadn't come, that's so, that's something completely obvious -- just as in the case of residences, what you're doing is inflating big companies, which then are even more powerful than the government itself. And then it's our fault to have to play on that frame, when you've systematically inflated -- because life didn't start in the Bipartite or the Government of Sanchez -- it has a lot of responsibility, practically the responsibility of what happened and happens in this country. So, if you inflate the bomb a business group, a company, and that company then has a little bit of measure taken and the watering needle, and you're not able to put an order there either, because it's not going to be the fault of the BNG. I think, come on, a little bit... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I'm telling you about this question that we brought to the audience today and not to mention all the lines I could quote you, I've got more, but I have two minutes left. But in this case we are talking about five specific lines of demand that are saying that in today's day there are no operating tracking systems, they continue to fail repeatedly; the vehicles that provide the service in this concession do not meet the environmental category offered; the vehicles that are on these lines and provide the service do not meet the age and half-life offered; the vehicles that provide these services do not meet the improvements in relation to quality and equipment other than the requirements according to the offer; the services that are carried out by these vehicles are done without an inserted tachograph card, which is mandatory. So, it's one after another, it's not isolated cases. In case you were talking about the Ferrol-La Coruña line, I suppose you're familiar with the eight bases that I told UTE on your offer, the eight bases that I said I had to take up that service. And you also know that if you visit some of these bases there's one that's nothing more than a camper with a "Selling" sign. There are no such bases. Therefore, there is no time for responding to bids either. But what are you telling me? That's not going to say anything, about the average age of buses, about the breach of security, about the non-compliance with offers, about the completely inflated offers, about the fearless casualties that are then not assumed...? Are you really not going to say anything here today? Is it all the fault of the BNG and the Socialist Party? [[Applause]] It's just that it's incredible that a counselor with such a serious matter should come here, like what we put on the table, and he's going to oppose the opposition. But don't worry. Do you want to know what our plans are for getting this country's mobility forward and what our revenues are and whether we're going to do it or not? Don't worry that in two years you can start testing. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u21	Thank you, President. Mr. Rios Santomé from the frames. I didn't understand it, because I don't know if you mean that the Galician Union was the one that forced you to draw some nails, forced you to pass some nails in the county, forced the BNG concierge to take out those prayers and forced you to make an adjudication; I don't know if you were referring to that. But in 2006, when you were ruling with the Socialist Party at the Galician Summit, I suppose the milestones were setting them up. Yes, they set the marks. [[Mr. Ríos Santomé pronounces words that are not perceived.]] For in 2006 the Town Hall of Santiago ruled the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party. And you do this: they took out the bidding of urban transport, the Monbus; the Congress Palace, the Monbus; the Sports Centre of Sar and Santa Isabel, the Monbus, and the Amio Market, the Monbus. Ten years plus five can be extended. I suppose the marks there are quite clear to you. The difference, Mr. Ríos, is that we haven't come here to spread shit everywhere, groundless accusations, and leave it in the air like anyone who's going to be there doesn't know what, that's what the Galician Nationalist Block does. [[Applause]] But if the data were passed, I'm sure you wouldn't; what happens is they didn't. What are we gonna do to him? Mrs. Otero, those prayers that benefit the interests of a company, I repeat to you the same: the nails of Lara Méndez in Lugo, who did they benefit? Ask yourself, who is the general secretary of the province. Ask him yourself. Isn't it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, if it isn't, ask him who knows, but ask yourself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The letter from the mayor of Pontedeme, do you know what date it is? I'll tell you two months ago, December 21, 2011. Do you know the difference between when they wrote the letter and what happened after you came here and went to Ferrol? That at that time the mayor of Pontedeme became the secretary general of the Socialist Party in the Coruña. And what it has to do is that they decide to make politics, and where I say, I don't say, I say Diego, understand? [[Murmurs.]] And those who decide that theater about what you were talking about are that this theater is going to Ferrol, to have the Minister of Transport in Ferrol, to make an act of housing in Ferrol. By the way, they didn't tell the mayor of Ferrol to give permission to rehabilitate, who's been housing in Ferrol for over a year. But they make an act of housing. Yes, they have no shame of asking the minister about the train, which does not affect public transport in Galicia. They have no shame in addressing the minister. That's if, after five or six days, or a week, that same mayor, who is now the secretary general of the Socialist Party in the province, with his mayors, will meet at the Ferrol bus station to ask the Board for more frequencies. But what are you talking about, if two months ago you said you were happy with the 11% increase in frequencies? What changed was the mayor's political condition, Mrs. Otero. [[Applause]] That's what changed, they started making another policy. And you were talking about the inspections. Listen, the advisor said it in the first intervention: I didn't despise those users who might have a problem with a frequency, or much less. What you had to put on was really what's the problem. Because if we have 3,000 bus lines running every day, that there's problems in ten, fifteen or twenty places, because the frequency doesn't fit as necessary, or because there's new needs that weren't known, and that the municipalities didn't participate, because that's not a serious problem, it's a problem of punctual adjustment in several places that need to be corrected, and they're correcting us by the Unity of Galicia. The important thing is to change the system and see the system globally. That's why I was telling the advisor that what you just did is very important, because you just changed the system. And of course there are misdeeds and they will continue to be there for a while, of course. But what is it? what is it, that these misdeeds throw all the work and even the system down the ground, or that they adapt to the needs that may arise? I think it has to be done is to adapt, and of course you listen to all users. But imagine that at the council, you decide to make a committee of citizens affected — as Adif said the other day — the result of the changes in the lines that have occurred and the imbalances in train schedules. What are we gonna do here? What would the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party be saying? What's going on is that it's very easy to focus on the Council of Galicia and try to hide everything behind the Socialist Party. Because you know it's being processed right now in Congress the Mobility Act. Do you know what this mobility law entails? For the Socialist Party will put economic profitability ahead of social profitability. Therefore, the train will not be able to be used except in large concentrations of population and high demand. Now we understand what happened two weeks ago in the 2nd Commission when we asked for that line, to facilitate that wide shift on the AVE line between Ourense and Santiago, and the Socialist Party abstained. We thought they would wait for that technical commission to which the minister committed himself. No, what's behind it is that they don't want to do anything, as the minister or Adif actually said during this week. It's a pity the Socialist Party doesn't take Galician public transport seriously. It's a shame the new secretary general and the new team are still making the mistakes they've made before, which is always being at the party's orders in Madrid and never defending Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u22	Thank you, Mr. Diego Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close of appearance, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u23	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret you coming to this chamber with this totally opportunistic public transport speech instead of bringing constructive and sensible proposals. All they're trying to do is to pull out political cuts; to see if making noise and saying things that nothing has to do with reality, we pull out some political profitability, if we grow politically. So we've come here to talk about serious public transport, about the mobility of the Greeks. I always say that it's easy not to do anything. And we here, of course, will continue to work, make progress, implement improvements and sink into this social transport plan in Galicia. And, Mrs. Otero, we always listen to the municipalities and users, we always listen and thank each other. We thank the municipalities that bring us closer together, and if they do them at the right time, much better. I hope that you share — I suppose, if we speak wisely — that at the time of public participation and at the time of consolidation it would be good to move those approaches and approach them, and not the last bull, because the last bull is much easier. And I also understand that nails are very complex. At any time, if you like, let's explain. But they're complex nails, which also have to be understood, because they're really complicated. I think it's a complex matter. And in any case, it would have been much better in public information than to analyze those far more productive prayers if they wanted to be useful and constructive in transport. I don't think it's a lot of serious things I've heard here, Mr. Rivers. It's nothing serious, nothing! Here, of course, we are to give solutions, not to whispering, noise and confrontation. We come up with solutions, we improve our services, and, of course, with their attitude, they're done. With the eldest, instead of talking about transport, instead of talking about mobility as citizens' rights, they come here to assemble a revolutionary totality. [[Applause]] You didn't talk about the deficiencies in railway services, and that's mobility. You haven't talked about the train services, which haven't been recovered yet, and that's also mobility, alternative to mobility -- I think it's my turn, which I can talk about -- [[Murmurs.]] They don't want to wear out the Government of Spain, that we know, they didn't talk about the mobility disaster, because talking about public transport is talking about mobility in all of their concepts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We must coordinate ourselves in all alternatives to public transport and mobility. Nor did they talk about the theft of the bus payment, nor of that alternative to pay for entering the cities, to penalize. [[Murmurs.]] And they intend to give public transport lessons, this mobility strategy in rural areas, which will be the death letter of the train in rural Spain, and especially in Galicia, in the services of medium distance. That is, of course, not to be useful at all to Galicia and not to disturb the central government, and criticisms all go to Galicia, whatever it is. I insist that this mobility strategy, these new criteria, will assume the disappearance of the medium distance train. They should be worried. I offer them to work together so that this doesn't happen. Other autonomous communities have also warned of the consequences of this mobility strategy. We're worried about public transport. I wonder what alternatives they have about that mobility strategy and whether they also support half-distance trains getting rid of rural, because, of course, they're not economically profitable, and social profitability doesn't seem to matter. We will continue to bet on public transport as a public service, with that unprecedented bet, and by further improving public transport, with special sensitivity and attention to our rural, because Galicia is eminently rural. The concessions of public transport were of the last century, of the fifties, of the last century. You think the history of public transport in Galicia should be re-established or, at least, containing it, to be well-informed. And this whole transformation process is 3,400 new transport lines, 57 million miles a year, 53,000 stops too, 2.3 million hours, 2.3 million hours! I don't want to think that in your hands there's the management of all this great public transport plan! It's an important social impact. And we have to give alternatives to rural mobility, new modes such as demand transport or the shared bus, which has, of course, proved to be an effective alternative for rural public transport. It's proven and contrasted. We have to use these empty school transport squares for rural people, for rural people who can use them, and give them mobility alternatives. [[Applause]] We have allocated EUR 80 million a year to this Public Transport Plan in Galicia. We won't stop working, and we'll keep working, we'll keep getting better. We set up New People's Card in 2016, and then we reinforced that social bet by the Galician youth. In May 2021, we extended to all of Galicia that New People's Card, a true social conquest that you do not want to implement in urban transport, but thanks to the Government of Greece, there are 110,000 young gales who have that New People's Card to use the Galician board bus for free, to encourage public transport between young people in Galicia and to help the family economy in transport. And also in that transport area, we continue to work, we continue to improve, we continue to use alternatives, we continue to face future challenges. That unique transport area in Galicia will bring all of Galicia advantages, bonuses, free transhipments, which now have the five metropolitan transport areas. We want Galicia to be unique, with a single fare and a single transport. So what we bet is that boost to rural mobility and that unique area, where the first to join will be the 119 municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, which also have a small population density according to the indexes of the Galego Institute of Statistics, to add those bonuses and those advantages that today are in metropolitan transport areas. These could be the same advantages in urban transport. It's in his hand. See if they join us, see if they join us in this transport area and see what they do in urban transport with New People's Card. Are you going to set an example of whether they bet on public transport or are they going to continue with noise and with that pack with zero proposals? They bring the backpack with proposals, with concrete proposals for public transport, and not that backpack with zero proposals and permanent demagoxy, which I have heard today. We with this transport area want to make a new bet on rural areas, favour the rural displacements to the populations, to the municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, and we expect this summer to be 119 municipalities of automatic accession, so that they have the bonuses and the benefit 150,000 Greeks more than today have the five transport areas. For my part, that's all. We keep working and we'll keep working on those challenges that we have ahead of us with digitization, the transportation area, the safe stops. And I insist again that I hope that your backpacks bring proposals and that they are useful for public transport in Galicia, that in today's interventions, of course, I have not heard any useful proposal to improve public transport by bus in our community. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u24	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with point 2 of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the wind policy of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u25	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u26	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, in the previous plenary session, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we again asked the Government of Greece about one of the main problems and concerns of our country, which is the wind model of the People's Party; a model at the service of the large companies of the electric lobby or, what is the same, a model against Galicia. A government that runs counter to the interests of this country, the interests of society, the interests of the environment and also the interests of the socio-economic development of our country. And in the response of the vice president, we could see one of the popular party's favorite exercises, one of its specialties, in which, in fact, they are champions without parallel, which is the strategy of ostrich, to make it so that with them it doesn't matter. When there's a problem, it doesn't have to do with the People's Party, it seems they're passing by, that they haven't ruled this country for 13 years, and what they do is they're looking for an outsider to blame. You're such an expert in outsourcing services that also extort guilt. That's what they also do with the wind sector, but it's not working for them. [[Applause]] That there is an unprecedented social response from the field of ecology, associationism, mountain communities, professional groups, scientists, etc. And a unanimous position on the wind model of the People's Party? Well, it's BNG's fault. It's from the BNG that has a magic vein, and how people for the People's Party must be stupid in this country and don't think for themselves, because it's the BNG that does this, blinks your fingers, and decides that there must be social mobilization. That's the concept the People's Party has of the situation, which says you're going a little bad about the quality and democratic tolerance, because the people of this country are smart and, if they're protesting by this wind model, it's because it's against their interests. That in two years of legislation, despite all the carpets they put in the wind sector in their legal reforms, without consensualizing, they still didn't install even 100 megawatts? What in all Mr. Núñez Feijóo's term of office over more than a decade have there been years in which zero megawatts have been installed? Well, it's also the responsibility of the opposition and not of the Government. And so on. May the People's Party's own mayors and entities such as the Galician Council of Culture answer this wind model? For the People's Party also seeks some kind of external responsibility, even inventing or pulling from truly rocambolic arguments. We saw him in the previous plenary session, when Vice President Conde was very worried because he said he saw a people -- who was written in the head of the BNG -- collecting signatures in the Incio, because he rules the People's Party, and not the Poor Brollon. Well, Mr. Count came here almost disguised as one of those spies that hires the People's Party - and that's going out on a regular basis -... I, from my seat, almost imagined it, almost like Inspector Gadget, was missing only the gabardina. [[Applause]] Well, stay calm, that day signatures were collected in the Incio because there was a fair. They don't worry that the allegations already made by the governments of the Galician Nationalist Block are also made. [[Applause]] In any case, this, which may seem like a joke, quite well reflects the modus operandi of a Nervous People's Party, which was nervous before and this week a little more, but which was nervous already before. A People's Party who uses that "defame" technique; defame, that something remains. Mr. Defamation or mind, because we have also seen lies once again in the previous plenary by both Vice-President Count and Environmental Adviser. You lie like, for example, that despite the fact that it was 15 years ago that the Bipartite Government was the first government in this country that for the first time in history excluded the Nature Network from the wind deployment, because the People's Party makes an omniscient eraser of the situation and says otherwise. He lied again and again to that government, which was what he legislated in the "predation law" first for the Nature Network's Master Plan to be subjected to industrial development, and that very Greek Government that premeditated the development of the Natura Network. For what? We see it all the time, it wasn't ineptitude. We were wrong since the BNG, it wasn't ineptitude, it was a premeditated roadmap for, over time, allowing their friendly companies, their family businesses, those companies with whom they hug themselves, those companies of their ex-counsellers who sat here two days ago, they could get benefits. The pieces are sticking together. [[Applause]] In short, this is how the People's Party's wind model works in the service of large companies. They've also been using self-government for the best, which is to find them the legal way. And so things, because first you dropped the Bipartite's wind competition, to facilitate expropriations, to avoid industrial demands and also to ban public participation, and fifteen years later we see lost time, we see deindustrialization, we see companies like blindfolding, we see more and more judgments against the People's Party... there are already 4 million euros! And the truth is, as if the situation wasn't delicious enough -- that a country like ours had never generated so much wind energy and never had so little benefit in return -- because the People's Party was not happy and in recent years increased the steps so that Galicia continued to be just an energy colony. He first made the "predation law" of 2017 and then the "predation law II" or the "administrative simplification law" of 2021. What's going on? For as if it had not been enough that over these years you are already carrying ten amendments to the Law of the wind sector without making a consensus, planning, debate with the agents concerned, it is not just that they have just announced reform number eleven, but that this situation which we see more and more judgments of the TSX itself - from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, not the BNG - which also fails against the political policy of the People's Party. We no longer know what further arguments and what more voices of authority need you to initiate a correction, which is precisely what we have come to ask this House once again today. Well, we saw recently, only in this legislation, the sentence of Sasdonigas. We're told of the fragmentation of law fraud committed by the People's Party, which allows again and again, because you quit your public control role. We also see Iribio's sentence, which is even more serious, which talked about how no adequate environmental guarantees were provided. And last January 21st -- and that's why we questioned Mr. Vice-President -- we also saw a judgment on the reconnaissance procedure of the Corme wind farm -- a sentence that tells us a lot of things. One of them is that repotency is not harmless, that must be evaluated deeply too, because there have been changes in sector technology, and that therefore has to be seen their impact on today's eyes. And he was telling us something very important about what we want to do today, which is that this model doesn't give guarantees of social and democratic participation; it doesn't. And TSX was abundant in something that also pointed out not only affected social groups, owners, municipalities, etc., but also the Council of Culture Galega itself in a recent report too, and that it pointed out that public exposure is not automatically public participation. And what did you give us this sentence? For, precisely, one of the issues that you introduced into the law of 2017 and which later implemented even more in the law of 2021, which is to reduce the proceedings from 30 to 15 days, for citizenship is not justified. It's not justified and it goes against community law, but it's against something much more important, which is against the slightest decency that has to have a government for its neighborhood. Because it's absolutely unthinkable that in an industrial installation procedure that lasts about five or six years on the way to cut the process, the way to reindustrialize this country maxically, or steal the neighborhood for fifteen days. [[Applause]] And not only that, but accumulating proceedings, so the case is taken -- like Corme, for example -- that people, the neighborhood, had to be informed of the project, of how it would affect, of making an assessment of what their opinion was, without having all the reports that were needed. Because that was also what favored the People's Party with its legal amendments. Of course, we understand that this is, from all standpoints, absolutely unacceptable. It's unacceptable and you have to put a stop to it, gentlemen of the People's Party, because you are currently the main problem with the wind industry. It's a problem for the industry because they're slowing down their development, because they're unable to process; it's a problem for citizenship, because citizenship has no tools -- and you don't provide them -- to evaluate projects and see how they affect them -- and it's a problem for the strategic natural resources of this country too. And what did we see in the full past? Well, another of the best attitudes is given to the People's Party, after changing laws to favor their interests and after seeking guilty, which is that of "not knowing, not answering." So we had a vice president "don't know, don't answer." We asked him direct questions and simply ignored the existence of this sentence. We understand, of course, that it has to have consequences. The first should be for someone in this country to assume political responsibilities. Secondly, correct the mistakes, and for that, we ask three very clear questions: The first is to make public all the wind sector agreements that are taken on the board of the board of directors and that you systematically hide from society every Thursday. That's very important. The second, that projects that are likely to be in the same circumstances as the Corme one paralyzes cautiously to provide the neighbouring of an appropriate time frame of claim. If it takes five years to implement an wind industry, you can wait a month for people to have the ability to exercise their democratic rights. And finally, to encourage the derogation from the aspects of these two laws that violate the public participation of the neighbourhood and design instruments so that it can be effective. We continue to insist: this country needs a guaranteed wind model, it needs a new legal framework, a new wind sector plan and it needs guarantees, because you are hampering the economic development capacity of this country, they are hampering the ability to exercise the democratic rights of citizenship and, most importantly, they are putting strategic values at risk from the economic, environmental and future of this country. So every minute you're delaying in rectification is a minute against the interests of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Before we move on to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I am delighted - and I think you all too - that, after a long time, we can greet those who accompany us today in the rostrum, because the school visits to this Parliament return. In this case, it is the Center Jesus Golmar, who are students of 6th primary in Lalin, Pontevedra. We are delighted to greet them and the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament, after a long time. May they be, therefore, welcome. [[Applause]] And now if you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Marín Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u29	Thank you, President. Welcome to these boys who come today to listen to us. In this debate, when we deal with a motion on the implementation of wind energy in our country and how we use an abundant natural resource such as wind in Galicia, let me begin by thanking this house, the Galician Parliament, and with it its president, the facilities that gave us the Solidarity Group with the Saharawi people, of which we are part the three groups with parliamentary representation, to make an institutional visit last week to the refugee camps in Tinduf and be able to take with us the Galician Health Commission to be able to work again on site with the Saharan health system, helping in diagnosing and treating the diseases of a population living in extreme conditions in the midst of the most inhospitable desert. "I would also like to take advantage of this rostrum to launch once again a message of solidarity from the Galician people with the Saharan people, who continue to live as refugees in Algerian territory, who have not lost their legitimate aspirations to live in peace in the territory occupied by the Moroccan Government and who do not want to fight the war, but who fights every day for their rights and for the cessation of the harassment suffered by the Saharan population in occupied territory. Moreover, international agencies should continue to call for courage and involvement in the solution established by the United Nations so that citizenship would decide the future of Western Sahara through a democratic referendum. And, after the visit, I would also like to encourage all those institutions, persons and non-governmental organizations to continue to cooperate in solidarity with the refugee camps so that an organized society, such as Saharan, will be able to meet their basic needs in exile. As my friend Sidi Hamudi, responsible for Saharan cooperation projects, says, can rob us of our land, but they can never steal our dignity." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, another fuller debate about the wind sector, at a time when the unstoppable energy transition and the millionaire arrival of European funds should be used by the Galician Union to be world leaders again in this sector, and to take advantage of the potentialities of our country, where we have the natural resource, but also knowledge, skills and experience in order to develop the technologies and construction of new infrastructure needed for this unstoppable energy transition. But all of this will not be possible without the Government of Greece carrying out two questions: on the one hand, which is firmly betting on the deployment of ordered wind energy in our territory and agile those projects that are linked to the development of new technologies, such as green hydrogen, and those that can reduce the price of energy to companies with high electrical consumption. And, on the other hand, let this be done in a manner that respects the population of our rural community, our territory and the activities of our primary sector, in addition to achieving a greater economic return between the rural communities and the municipalities concerned, so that the benefit of the implementation of this activity has a balanced distribution and not only benefits powerful foreign multinationals, as if Galicia were a colony of some of these multinationals; and that this deployment is also accompanied by industrial development that improves our GDP and the levels of employment that industry can create. The reality is that at this moment the policy of the Greek Government is so important that it is chaotic and has no direction; a policy that achieves that something that was previously desired by the entire citizenry, now has an answer anywhere in Galicia where you want to build a wind farm. It is incomprehensible that the only reaction of the German Government and the People's Party to the problems generated by their model is to behave like an ostrich, hiding their heads, waiting to see if they have the only resource that Feijóo has to try to justify their absolute inaction, which is to blame the Bipartite and the Socialist Government of Madrid for all the evils we have in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is very difficult to be angry with all sectors affected by the wind deployment of Galicia, but if we take a look at the statements they make from the wind power promoters, the wind component auxiliary industry, the rural communities affected by the deployment of this infrastructure, the municipalities affected, the eco-xist associations and the agricultural organizations themselves, we find that none of them are happy with the policy on wind energy that the Government makes. Wind promoters, in the speech of their president, the president of the Galician Wind Association, say that the wind model in Galicia is the law of the jungle, when they denounce that the Union has paralysed the sector, as Mr. Conde himself acknowledged, when he said -- doing so -- that in 2020 zero megawatts of wind energy were installed in Galicia and that we would close the 2021 with only 70 megawatts and when they report that they have no legal certainty about the activity they perform and only ask for order and planning to implement the wind energy in a responsible way. Component manufacturing companies see how this paralysis leads to the relocation of the activity he did, for example, that of Siemens-Gamesa, in Somozas, or Vestas, in Viveiro. And despite the People's Party, the wind industry in Galicia continues to give many jobs. Rural communities denounce the lack of security they have in the implantation of wind energy at the doors of their homes, the lack of information and collaboration of the Galician administration in order to defend their rights, the lack of balance in negotiations with promoting companies, the excessive affection of the parks polygonals, etc. The municipalities are calling for the implementation of this industrial activity to be ordered, for the Government of Greece to assist them in the information and allegations to be made, for this implementation to have a greater economic return on its citizens and for the Environmental Compensation Fund to be increased and better distributed among those who are actually affected. Environmental groups are calling for our environmental heritage to be defended, for areas of the paralysed expansion of the Natura Network, for our wetlands to be defended and for the landscaping of these parks to be minimized. And agricultural organizations, which this infrastructure respects the land's agricultural and livestock activities where this activity is essential. The Socialist Group is concerned that while some are against all kinds of wind power installation, taking advantage of it to make partisan politics where a wind promoter appears -- and that's why they also spoil the industrial future of our country -- others are pleased with this situation of insecurity for promoters and citizens affected by the planning of this wind energy. I mean, for some and others, the house goes on unhindered. They are concerned that it is not to promote a new regulatory framework for the wind sector that drives the deployment of wind energy linked to industrial activities in Galicia, establishing legal security and also social, economic and environmental guarantees in its development; that a new law is not developed that replaces the many changes in the regulatory framework in this sector that introduced the Government of Beijóo; and that it does not move forward to modernise a sectoral plan that dates back to 1997 and that the Government of Greece on its day has not even submitted strategic environmental assessment. From the Socialist Group we again take advantage of this motion, derived from the multiple rulings that appear and make clear the legal insecurity that exists in the sector - as is the case with Corme, which previously said the BNG spokesman - to ask the Greek Government once again to open the debate on how to give legal security to those who wish to bet on the deployment of wind energy in Galicia and with it give the industry a future and modify the real problems of citizenship in this wind deployment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do something to prove to the citizen that the Government is next to it and that it does not work to benefit the interests of a few, such as those who put their partner Beatriz Mato on the board of directors, who, together with other companies, are creating a bubble of wind projects without any end than merely speculative, causing problems in the territory and also in the economic sector itself, which is very concerned about the situation we are living in. From our group we know that the wind sector is very important for Galicia and that in 2019 it represented a total contribution to GDP of around 600 million euros, which means 0.9% of the European GDP and a number of jobs directly or indirectly associated with this sector of about seven thousand in 2019. And we also know that many of the projects linked to next generation funds and the future of companies -- high energy consumers -- depend on the installation of this energy, that Galicia cannot afford to paralyze this sector, because a paralysis can mean the loss of many current and other jobs that could be created. And what can't be, because of that fictitious bubble of wind projects, you're completely paralyzing the sector. It must protect our territory, and help to foster activity where it's not harmful. I'm sure you'll be grateful to the workers of companies like GRI Towers, building towers in Carballino, repairing Gamesa, in Oroso, or norvento's in Vilalba; in addition to electrointensive companies, such as Alcoa, Alu Iberica, Ferroatlantica or Megasa, which depend on that technology to cost off. They help to implant wind energy, but they don't forget that they must protect our citizenship and our natural and historical heritage. We need to implement formulas for this activity to leave greater economic return to rural communities and municipalities where this activity is being carried out, and the high agricultural and forestry lands of Galicia are not at risk. Finally, we ask the BNG to accept our amendment to the fourth point, which, having a similar spirit, makes it clear that, before derogating and paralyzing, we are committed to creating a new regulatory framework that drives those projects that give future to our industrial sector, establishing legal security and social, environmental and economic guarantees in its development, with a new law that modifies the legal jungle that the People's Party has put in place and the development of a new planning that, as I said before, dates too long. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u30	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u31	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the People's Group for the presence of the future of Galicia, these 6th grade children and children. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's unfortunate that once again the Galician Nationalist Block Group makes interpretations that go beyond what it really says. In an unintended way, they're trying to convey that the dictates are against a wind model, but what happens, Mrs. Prussia, is that you of the judgment, read what they're interested in. And if you did give them explanations, Mr. Conde the other day, the second vice president, what happens is that they didn't like the explanations you gave, because you of the sentence, they interpret what they want. As for the Socialist Party, Mr Seco, the truth is that it seemed that with the new leadership one could think of a collaboration and cooperation in a sector that intends to move forward towards an energy transition, on the other hand, hurried and unplanned that you have provided from Madrid and that we are suffering with the early closure of the thermals and with the high and high price of light, of which my fellows said nothing here. Today we have peaks of 300 euros the mega-hour and here, sepulchral silence, which drowns the electro-intensive industry, small businesses, families... the PSdEG, instead of demarcating itself from a radicality of the BNG and its platforms, because, no, once again, it opposes everything, all progress, in an attempt to confront. It's the only thing the two spokesmen here did before me. Look, Mr. Seco, rural Galician doesn't need false saviors, it needs public servants who put their general interest in their political interest, which is what you do, Mr. Seco. Look, you're talking about bubbles. It's amazing! The more than half a hundred projects that are being processed in the state in Galicia have been told from the Galician Union that they cannot be processed because they don't comply with regulations, with more than 4,000 megawatts. What bubble are we talking about? Who proposed the bubble here? A little stink! Look, Mrs Prussia, it's a pity to you, Galicia is one of six communities that has an wind sector plan, which has a wind model and a community in which its territory is shielded at 77.5% against the installation of wind farms, and the judgment you're talking about neither questions technical nor environmental criteria; in fact, it values them positively. I'm telling you to read it well, not just to read what interests you. Look, the herd is already questioning here the repotencing of an wind farm. Ladies and gentlemen, it's an wind park, the Corme wind park, which went from 61 airlifts to 7. He's got 54 air conditioners less, and they're questioning repotency here. But please, Mrs. Presas, don't insult the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks! You're against the wind sector, and you can't tell me that you're not, because how many initiatives have you and me been discussing, that we're the two energy spokespersons since we started here in Parliament in Galicia? How many times do we debate, at your request, against a sector? Look, you're against the Galician Summit, they're against the wind sector -- obviously, the wind sector; yes, Madam Prussian, this shows you all the initiatives that we're constantly debating here -- they question the Joining Technicians, they question companies, they question everything that promotes a development and a new opportunity that we can have in an energy transition that we have no choice but to face — hurryed – Mrs Prussian. Look, all you can do is try to stir up, that's what you want, you know. That's where they have a guide... we fight for more transparency. The sector is being developed as a promotional guide. And then the guide you have is how to make the t-shirt and banner against the wind sector; that's what you help. Look, Your Honor, you're talking about defending Galicia, but here you haven't said anything about more than half a hundred projects that have already been reported negatively; 4,000 megawatts. What did you say? That's also for Galicia, but no, they're on the side of the Socialist Party. Why? Because they cogoberate here in Galicia and support in Madrid Mr. Sánchez. That's the reality. Look, the whole thing is to come here also to accuse us of predators, that we are pushing two laws of administrative axillization -- axillization, which is not predation -- and not installing parks. But agree! What's...? Look, they drop their argument, their demagogy, by their own weight. Look, they're wrong once again just pointing to Galician Union. They can't condemn what's going on with state projects, which are megaparks, more than 4,000 megawatts and not a single word. I understand you're crazy, because you've ruled and failed in the Bipartite. And, of course, the past is there and we have to say... No, man, yes, yes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not from the last century; no, it's not. So you once ruled and launched more than eight hundred megawatts that were processed from the previous government. And you, quiet ones. Like they didn't authorize parks on Natura Network? Yes, they authorized their exploitation. The other day Mr. Bará said no, but how come not? In six parks they authorized the exploitation on the Natura Network, and in three they authorized their construction, including that which hurts them, that of the Oribio. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] In that too, Mrs. Prussian, in 2007. Yes, yes! Look, I insist, this judgment does not in any case question the technical and environmental criteria that led to the approval of this project, nor does it question the wind plan - does it not question itself - nor the successive laws; what if it is referendumed and is firm is the annulment of its three Bipartite contests. You can't deny that this is the case, and in addition to a decree they had to withdraw because you've accumulated in your writing various industrial resources and eight objections from the Advisory Council. But, well... You neither this group nor the Government of the Union have to give lessons from the wind sector; no, Madam Prussian. No, look, in Galicia if there's a wind model, and of course we're pointers in Galicia, we've got it being thanks to that wind model, and you can't tell me that you don't. All our projects, those in Galicia - and should be so with the state - respect the wind law adopted in 2009 and the sectoral wind plan. And all the projects -- I insist, and I seem repetitive, but I've already told you 50,000 times -- follow the state environmental legislation, which is the most secure; all the projects, which you know, that, according to that law, ordinary environmental assessment, could only be or would be forced to process it in projects of more than thirty megawatts; and not for all wind projects here is the ordinary declaration of environmental impact. So you have to recognize it, and you can't come here to demonize two laws of administrative axillization, because they don't reduce rights, they don't imply liberalisation of the sector, they don't protect the environment. What these two administrative axillization laws do is that Galicia has an opportunity to solve a fair, orderly and environmentally compatible energy transition and to create new jobs. I understand that you have an allergy to new jobs, because for you there are first-time workers and second-rate workers; those who want you, defend us, and those who don't, don't. But no, the Galician Union, as the responsible administration of this group, will defend all the workers. [[Applause]] Look, you're talking about transparency. I don't know, but all the projects have public exposure and claims may be made. Many have -- you know -- hundreds of allegations made, which are analyzed by the Galician Union, and that's why they've been here for a while, and that's why you can't come here saying we haven't processed projects or approved them. The times of projects are what they are, and it's been a while to process them with total rigour. I understand that you guys like rigor also put it between meals. Look, I think you've got elected mayors, too. The other day they went to Verea and went to Celanova and, of course, Mrs. Pontón gave the speech against the windman in Celanova, who not in Verea, because, of course, the mayor of Verea, ladies, in case they don't know, is from the BNG, and the mayor of Verea wants the windman in his county. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So Mrs. Pontón gave the talk against the windmills in Celanova, which does not rule the BNG. Look, Mrs. Prussian, have a little smell. His mayors, too. The Mayor of Muras also wants the windmills. By the way, look at that book that took out the Wind Observatory of Walls and look at how many megas you authorized in Muras. Look at it, look at it... but then, you're in it, zero responsibility. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Mayor of Walls wants more money from the cannon, but he's in favor of the windmills. Don't come here and tell me you don't. Well, finally, pure demagogy. The truth is, Mrs Presas, is that you don't care about the return to wind: 7,000 jobs, 584 million euros to GDP, more than 130 million euros in taxes, 23 million euros from the wind canon... by the way, wind canon that you now - welcome - seem to accept, because they didn't want it, they voted against. With you the Bipartite gave them zero euros, and with this government, thanks to the cannon... but, man, Mr Bará, it's your story! The story of the Bipartite is that they were given to the municipalities zero euros, because they didn't have an instrument like the wind cannon, which made this government in 2009, with the arrival of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and that hurts them a lot! [[Applause]] Yes, Mr. Rivas, of course it hurts! Of course they hurt! That's the reality! Look, I'm done. I, Mrs. Prussian, when you talk about demagogy here, I tell you that now they have a little parked the Greek fare and all that. I would really like to have you answer some questions: with what energy?, with what, windy? Terrestrial, no; marine wind, no. The centrals closed them down according to the Socialist Party. And the hydraulics, that are closing too. The hydroelectric power plants also depend on the municipality where they are installed. Maybe the PSOE and the BNG, the hydroelectric power plant, we put the red carpet on it, but if we rule the PP, we criticize it. That, well, that's it, that's reality, Your Honor! Your colleagues in the Industry Commission claim the Public Energy Society, but with what energy?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u33	...you tell me. Because I don't know. If it's not worth any, Mrs. Presas... really, Mrs. Presas, you paint a black scene that's not like that. Look, in Galicia, he's been living with the wind sector -- and the pointer -- for many years, and we've been living together, and we're going to keep doing it the same, respecting the law, processing all the projects, which is not to authorize; processing is not to authorize. And he'll continue to work at the pace that's necessary. It's true that more personnel were hired, because yes, if there's an avalanche of 275 projects, of course there's, of course, a propitiated one, as we all know, by whom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u34	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u35	Look, Mrs. Prussian, of course you won't receive support from this group for your motion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u37	I'll continue to debate with you whenever you want, but you won't get what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u38	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u39	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u40	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, with regard to the amendment of the Socialist Party, we're not going to accept it, because, in fact, it's quite surprising. Because at our point, which the Socialist Party amends, we speak directly about developing and approving a new regulatory framework and a new wind sector plan; and basically what the Socialist Party does - which does not fail to surprise us - is to withdraw the part of our proposal in which we talk about derogating the aspects of the People's Party's Predation Laws that cut the deadlines for public participation. I don't know if the new Socialist Party -- which I think is practicing what his voice said about opportunism -- should go through Mr. Formoso's latest statements -- now it seems good to you that administrative agileization that violates the rights of citizenship. [[Applause]] To us, of course not; and therefore, well, we will not accept it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs Novoa, indeed, we have had a long and tender debate. But, look, I think my parliamentary group should change my energy voice and I don't know if in the next debate Mrs. Rodil comes to make a wind model of the BNG for dummies, to see if it makes her understand better than me. Because you understand what they're interested in and what they want. They understand what they want, Mrs. Novoa, and sometimes the debate goes only in one direction. I don't know if you wanted to talk about Mr. Almeida here and stand up... I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, we're going to talk about the mayors of the BNG. [[Applause]] Actually, I'm telling you there's not one mayor of the BNG, there's not one institutional charge of the BNG, there's not one government of the BNG that's against the wind sector. It's just that you repeat that mantra, but it's a lie, Mrs. Novoa. What we are against is the People's Party model, which is harmful to the interests of this country. [[Applause]] And the BNG is not the People's Party, where the party leader goes and comes at an hour and the deputy mayor comes to another. [[Applause]] There was the mayor of Verea, along with the national spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego, with a position that has a common denominator, which is to defend that the wind model has to serve the interests of the country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And so the BNG as an organization claimed those projects asking for certain changes. [[Applause]] Of course, democracy is what we do, the municipalities think. As a matter of fact, the Councils are disturbed by the fact that the People's Party since the Council of the Union — although it does not publish the agreements — push the vangue of supramunicipality and pass over their interests, Mrs Novoa. [[Applause]] Anyway, we can still talk about uprisings. It is a pity that the Lalins had left, because Lalin is an example of political unanimity, including the People's Party and the Socialist Party, against the harmful projects of the Union and the State. It is that they go far beyond the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, because their representatives voted there in favor of a moratorium, but of a moratorium on real people, not like those you put in the laws of budgets -- which is not what we are voting here, by the way -- [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Or we can talk about the House of Ourense, because, of course, now that everything is moving, I don't know if you're no longer on the side of the House of Ourense. Because Mr Baltar — the Member of the House of Ourense — voted in favour of a proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block which was betting on public participation. So, Mrs. Novoa, he dares and, for once there is a common position, for he stays on the gold side. In any case, Mrs. Novoa, of course, that way can continue, but it is that, look, we have a legacy of coherence. It's that they can't convince the world that we're against wind development when it was this political organization that pushed a model that was revolutionary and was betting on public participation, that shielded guarantees against expropriations and that it was also, Mrs. Novoa, about industrial development. Because, of course, everyone here has their service sheet. And you come here to say that we have an allergy to jobs. The allergy targets Vesta, Siemens-Gamesa, etc. the People's Party model. Indeed, yes, that is the question. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Then, of course, they come here, and those who deny climate change say that the rest of us are against progress. They come here and say public servants have to put their general interest ahead of them. [[Applause]] Caramba!, the public servants such as the former advisers and advisers of the People's Party, who authorized 80% of the wind farms of the companies they will then sit on their board of directors. Hell, yes, so well defend this country or the People's Party! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, one last point, two telegraphic questions. What the sentence says is that those deadlines that you cut are badly cut and are going against Community law. We added: they are against the moral right that should guarantee a government to participate in its citizenship. So -- we insist -- that has to be corrected. [[Applause]] It would be a sign of goodwill on the part of the People's Party, but we see that there is not even the least. And one last question, and we repeat it again to satiety: of course we also talk about state parks, of course we talk about them too. Mrs. Novoa, how many times have you voted against this legislation to ask that parks be processed entirely in Galicia regardless of its volume of megawatts? How many times have you voted against asking for explanations and guarantees? It's just that you can't try to find that strategy of external culprits. So you have the BNG guilty and you have the blame for if there's a wind wave and if you're not able to handle it and if there's a response between your mayors, they try to make it look like it's all the responsibility of the central government. Then don't go on, Mrs. Novoa, because those who are incoherent are you. So — we insist — these judgments must have an answer. They assume political responsibilities, change the law to ensure that neighborhood can participate and stop being an obstacle to the development of this country, to environmental custody and to the guarantees of people. They are pushing for a new regulatory framework for the wind sector, a new wind sector plan, and they are no longer an obstacle to this country's progress. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the policy of the Government of Galicia regarding the execution of the state approach funds of the IV rescue plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u43	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u44	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Socialists bring the debate to the motion arising from the inquiry made to the Employment and Equality Counsellor in the previous plenary session; an interpellation in which the councillor himself acknowledged the inability of the Government of Greece to execute one hundred percent of the funds transferred by the State, the inability of the Council of Galicia to execute the more than 234 million euros that the Government of Pedro Sánchez transferred a year ago — one year! — to benefit self-employed people, professionals and businesses particularly affected by the crisis of the coward by direct aid; and a Board of Galicia incapable, which will have to return 70 million euros, while other autonomous communities have executed one hundred percent of the funds transferred. The Council of Galicia, from the same moment of decreeing the pandemic originated by the coward-19 in March 2020, has added to attacking with face to face any proposal, resolution or agreement that it had come from the state, converting the Government of Wales into the Government of No, and President Feijóo to the most advanced student of "Ayusism", by following Mrs Ayuso. She's a president who announces without disrespect that she has actually awarded contracts to friends and to whom her brother has hired a commission for the management of these contracts with public money; that is, with the tax money we all pay. The PP is doing business, while the Government of the State — the Government of Pedro Sánchez — has put the means to get out all together of the health, economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. Corruption, gentlemen of the People's Party, runs once again through the veins of the People's Party, and the worst thing is that they've normalized it. You talk about the possible resignation of marriage, but nothing says of Ayuso and of contracts to his friends. Anyway... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To the People's Party—Mr. Puy, do you want to come here?—he didn't care that with the crisis of the coward if he could tangle the stability of our country, not the thousands of jobs that could be destroyed, or the situation of the most vulnerable families. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] For President Feijóo, Ayusism became the next light, and the confrontation with the Government of President Sánchez, the main objective. The PP over these months has set up all possible obstacles so that European funds, those Next Generation funds, would not arrive in Spain and so that they would not reach Galicia. They tried by all means that these 140 billion euros didn't come to help people or businesses. They voted against the Congress of Deputies, repeatedly spoke ill of our country in Brussels for the European Union to doubt and refuse to transfer these European funds. And, finally, by making a real joke, they sent a delegation of mayors, mayors and a chairman of the Parliament to Brussels to continue with this campaign of contempt of our country and try again to question the sound management of funds in Spain. But once again — and now four, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — have not been received by the decision-making bodies of the European Union, and from the European Commission they have been reconfirmed that the Government of Pedro Sánchez is doing well and that thanks to its management 140,000 million euros are coming to Spain to ensure our economic and social recovery without anyone remaining behind; 140,000 million euros are coming to Spain and therefore Galicia despite the People's Party. How many more times will they make fun of European institutions? How many more times will they try not to reach Galicia, Spain? How many more times will there be talk of patriotism waving flags while they want to prevent European funds from coming absolutely necessary for the reconstruction of our country? The curious thing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that at the same time they try not to get those funds, in the same sentence they criticize the Government for them to arrive. The truth is, you can't have the greatest political hypocrisy. If the management of the pandemic depended on the People's Party, I assumed that for Spain and Galicia there would be zero euros, but thanks to the management of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez, 140 billion euros are coming. Look, in this unprecedented pandemic, which has slammed the economic and social bases around the world, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has worked from the very first time to raise funds, develop and implement a powerful shock plan, with economic and labour measures, initially estimated at about 200,000 million euros to protect businesses, to protect self-employed people who, for the first time in the face of a crisis, have coverage of the Government of Spain in the face of the paralysis of their activity or the decrease of their income. They had moratoriums on their main tax debts, the repayment of credits and the payment of contributions. They had actions to reduce their fixed and variable costs through direct aid for the payment of wages and the social contributions of their workers, they had relief measures for the payment of rents, they were provided with income through an extraordinary allowance for self-employed companies, more than 37,000 companies obtained ICO assets and, finally, they transferred these EUR 234 million to Galicia so that they could provide direct help to companies most affected by health decisions in their traditional area. Within this shock plan there were also measures to protect workers and workers through ERTEs, the deployment of telework, the recuperable pay permit, the improvement of protection of discontinuous locks and workers with temporary contract, the implementation of measures for household workers. But also almost 37,000 Greeks and Greeks received the minimum vital income, and in three years of Pedro Sánchez's government, the minimum interprofessional wage increased by 264 euros a month. Pedro Sánchez's government has also reformed the pension system to return purchasing power to pensioners and to derogate the shameful rate of revaluation of 0.25 approved by Mr. Rajoy, with whom nearly 770,000 German and Greek pensioners have seen their pensions revalued according to the IPC this year 2021. If it were for the People's Party, none of these measures would come out at all. But the Government of Pedro Sánchez also approved labour reform, in which the action of the People's Party again showed the lowest and most despicable in certain ways of political doing. Labour reform has been approved, despite the People's Party and also despite the Galician Nationalist Block, labour reform has been approved in spite of the People's Party's artworks to buy wills, something in which they have long and credible experience; a reform that has gone forward because of the human error of one of their Members and that the PP is trying to justify trying also to pollute and discredit the democratic institutions of this country. It's worth anything to you in order to confuse a legitimate government and secure its partisan strategy. I'd like to know exactly what they were celebrating when they thought I wasn't going to go ahead with the job reform. Did they celebrate that workers and workers didn't recover part of the rights cancelled under the Government of Mariano Rajoy? Or were they delighted that for the first time there was an agreement between the Government and the social agents, including trade unions and employers? Or did they celebrate that, if this reform did not come out, it was a trap for the European funds to continue to arrive? Indeed, this reminds me also of a Minister of the People's Party in the Government of Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Montoro, who said "that Spain falls, that we will raise it." A pity! A pity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Look, you know perfectly well that employment has not been a priority during these twelve years of Government Feijóo. The latest data published by the IGE on the last EPA referred to in the fourth quarter of 2021 reveal to us that the employment data of our autonomous community are the worst. While in Spain 840,000 jobs were created in one year, exceeding pre-pandamy occupation and the highest level of employment since the 2008 crisis, an increase of 4.35%, in Galicia growth was 0.96%, the third worst evolution of all autonomous communities and autonomous cities, only behind Murcia and Ceuta. We still have 50,900 people employed less than in the fourth quarter of 2009. And between October and December 2021, 21,200 jobs were destroyed in Galicia, the reason for 230 jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u47	...by day, or 350 jobs/day in January of this year. I'm done, Mr. President. If we see the number of unemployed, we have the same situation. In Galicia, in the fourth trimester of 2021, compared to the same trimester of the previous year, it drops to 5.3%, while for the state-wide downgrading it is 16.56%. Stop confronting, work to reverse job precariousness and unemployment in our community and work together to establish mechanisms with the state and not to lose those...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u49	...70 million euros that the Galician Union has not been able to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u50	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u51	...to execute. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u53	Good morning. Well, a priori, the interpellation that generates this motion would turn on a concrete plan, on the autonomous and state funds directed at self-government and small and medium-sized enterprises during the pandemic and its degree of execution. We were already surprised by the fact that, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, with regard to the Fourth Rescue Plan, in our modest opinion, it was to go to the breast discovered against the bullets, because the Government of the State had taken more than a year since the beginning of the pandemic to pass Royal Decree Law 5/2021, of extraordinary measures to support business solvency, which provided for a line of aid from the direct state of a finalist character. On the basis of these state approaches, Junta articulated what they called the III Plan; a plan that did not work, and remained 134 million euros without sharing in that call, which, if not executed, would have to be reinstated to the State Fair. The Board announced with this money not executed an IV rescue plan, but neither the III nor the IV rescue plan worked. And the evidence is that today, according to Junta, 70 million euros are not executed. What is Meridian is that the planning of these aids has been erratic since its conception by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with a plan that I was planning to save large companies, but, in no case, to help the autonomous pemmes and people, which mostly consist of the German business fabric. A planning of state aid focused on helping large host companies in the most tourism-dependent communities and demonstrating how pernicious political centralism is for our country. Because the fact that Galicia is less dependent on tourism than other territories doesn't mean that the pandemic had no impact on our economy, right? The fact that they didn't run 70 million euros doesn't mean they don't exist in our country, self-employed and self-employed in crisis situations that needed help. There he was the guesthouse manifesting himself in the street and claiming solutions and help and denouncing, by the way, the sectarianism of the board in convening meetings with the sector. There were associations of entrepreneurs and self-employed and self-employed, complaining that the adjudication criteria were sometimes impossible to meet. It became clear that the characteristics of our productive tissue were not priority, they were not considered. And this highlighted a question that the BNG has been reporting for a long time: Galicia's lack of political weight in the Spanish state. It has highlighted the need to increase our country's self-government capacities, to improve our funding and to increase our competences. But, of course, we have here the president of the zero powers claimed in twelve years. He pointed out that the political weight or the importance of President Fexóo in the state political landscape derives precisely from being an autonomous president who doesn't pose problems, from being a non-conflict president, not demanding; a president who can ignore the defence of our country's productive fabric in the current autonomic framework and who can also ignore other things, right? how is he proving precisely these days, because who doesn't have a brother or a cousin? Those are the things you care about, the things you know how to do. The pandemic, for the political, sterile and fruitless broom for Galicia, but very profitable for the partisan and even personal interests of its president. And in the meantime, in the midst of a crisis he put against the ropes, literally, all the small trade, all the hospitality, travel agencies, shows, culture, etc., there are no funds left to run, no money to spend. It's absolutely incredible! From the BNG we insist, through our amendment, that this bilateral Bureau of the Union and the State be moved forward, that they come to agreements and that they draw solutions so that the funds can reach where they have to come from. And finally, the PSOE motion is a motion on the execution of funds to rescue the business fabric affected by the pandemic and includes, surprisingly, nothing more and nothing less than an attempt to whiten out the non-derogation of labour reform. I think in such a relevant subject, we have to keep things quite clear. The Government of the PSOE and We can did not derogate the labour reform of the People's Party of 2012. So it consolidates its most vulnerable aspects. They consolidate the reduction in unfair redundancies, which have passed from 45 days to 33, and, above all, consolidate the ease to fire, the system of objective causes that justify the ERE, the system that allows, for example, a company to be able to fire for economic reasons still having benefits. A reform that eliminated the possibility of governments to intervene in the ERE, which would have been of much help in companies such as Polygal, Siemens-Gamesa or Vestas, and which would also be of great help, for example, to solve the problem of the Alu Iberian factory in the Coruña. Not only have all these issues been touched, all of great importance, of great social transcendence, but the new regulation adopted by the current government reduces the negotiating deadlines of the ERTEs, complicating the position of the social party in these negotiations -- a curious way of rebalancing labour relations, which has been the government's mantra -- and a reform that introduces another novelty of great transcendence and silence into labour law: that fixed contracts discontinuous may establish the day and working time in an estimated way, pending to be realized at the time of the call. Every day and hour, issues that have so far been considered as substantial conditions of the employment contract, can now be established on an estimated basis. I mean, it seems like a person can figure out what his day and working hours are going to be just when he's going to start working. It's amazing! From now on, this is not to rebalance work relationships. [[Applause]] And another issue of great importance is to ensure that business agreements prevail over those of the sector, because it will be precisely in these agreements where, for example, the annual agenda, irregular agenda, or mechanisms to make the call of these fixeds discontinuous to the letter. There is no derogation and there is, if you look at it, a rebalancing of working relationships, but instead it deepens on the strength of the company's ability to perform ERE, ERTE or unilaterally set working conditions. That's why the BNG voted against. They won't count on our complicity to deceive the working class. They won't count on our complicity in operations like this, from which a reduction in rights derives. [[Applause]] What do we agree with the People's Party and the Vox vote against? You also coincide with them on other occasions. The difference is that you agree with them in the defense of the monarchy and in corruption, and we vote in conscience and in defense of the rights of the working class. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u54	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Now we greet the 5th and 6th primary students from the center of Frións in the Coruña. Well, nothing, welcome to Parliament. We also greet their teachers and the people who accompany them. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I must begin by lamenting that the motion you bring today is an extraordinarily disappointing motion for this House's majority group, for the People's Group. And I'm not just saying this because the socialists are disavowing -- as in fact, they did -- an interpellation and the motion as a result of that interpellation. Instead of focusing on the rescue plan, which was the reason for the questioning, companies and self-employed, which was their goal, you even take advantage of the work reform of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. These statements make the socialist motion a real disappointment. It is a true disappointment of the lack of commitment, but especially of the lack of courage of the Socialist Party, because, once again — and it begins to be too usual already by the PSdeG in this parliament — they have lost the opportunity to put themselves aside to the interests of Galicia and to put themselves alongside the Greeks and the Greeks, to demand, loud and clear, with clarity and bluntness, that Galicia is not further deprived of the money that corresponds to all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You have lost the unique opportunity to ask clearly for the Government of Pedro Sánchez to return to Galicia, return to the companies and return to the autonomous Greeks that close to 70 million euros that were allocated to our Community and could not be executed in the wake of the third and fourth rescue plan. You, the Socialists, have lost the opportunity to demand that these resources may again be destined for our Autonomous Community and also ask them to return to the conditions that make these funds useful, and not useless, as they did before, and not as happened in the last two rescue plans. And so he explained it — as you know — in this very chamber the Employment Counsellor, with total clarity; a counselor who was able to expose the difficulties and expose the pitfalls that we have encountered, both the Galician Council and the business fabric, in order to access to ask for those funds transferred. In his motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the Socialists lost the opportunity to say, loud and clear, that they are returning to Galicia some money that is at risk of returning to the Moncloa, not because of the Unity of Galicia or because of the self-employed, nor because of the companies, but because the Central Government was unable to make these aids fair and accessible to those who needed them. I say it's probably our fault, the ultimate fault of the Popular Parliamentary Group, for thinking that the new leadership of the PSdEG would be braver and would be on the side of Galicia's interests and not on the side of the Moncloa's interests. But the truth is that reality is stubborn and again the Greek socialists are subjected to Pedro Sánchez. Again, what has happened in the past, when we had to claim by judicial means what was ours, the EVV, or when you, both the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block, sold the Alcoa workers, by setting an example. The error is probably from the People's Party and the People's Group, for overestimating the autonomy of the socialists to act courageously in the light of the background. But don't worry. They have the opportunity to rectify in this same plenary session, voting in favour of the People's Party initiative that we will be discussing this same afternoon, and that precisely calls for it not to continue to deprive Galicia of the money that is ours. And, therefore, allow me to leave the debate more deeply on the new rescue plan for this afternoon, which we will have occasion to be able to debate again. Though I insist, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block too: you are in time to rectify. The Socialist Party is in time to keep up with the interests of businesses and self-governing Galicians, companies and self-governing Galicians who continue to deserve our support and all the support of the administrations, to have these governments the political colour they have. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I'm sorry to tell you. In your motion, in which you also made a motion will, seven points, the only point we could vote for is point 2, which, although lacking in courage, because if you are lacking courage, because you do not ask us to reassign pending funds, if you include what the Government of Greece is trying to do in a constant way: to find collaborative formulas so that the 70 million not executed from the last rescue plans will arrive at pemens and self-employed and self-employed people. And see if you're more fortunate than the Government of Galicia, if you get the current Moncloa tenant or the first vice president, Nadia Calvin, or the Fairy Minister, Mrs. Montero, to respond to the letter sent by the Galician board in order to find formulas so that the remaining 30% that remained uncompromising of the 243 million euros transferred remains in Galicia. But we're not going to vote in favour of the rest of the points of his motion, where we're asked to whitewash the job reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group advocates the usefulness of labour reform in 2012, Mariano Rajoy's labour reform in the presidency of the Government and Fatima Bañez in the Ministry of Labour, which was consolidated as one of the most effective tools for job creation and to bring Spain out of the crisis in which the Socialist Party had left in 2008. [[Applause]] It is true that the royal decree passed by you maintains fundamental aspects of this reform, but it all indicates that the articles that have been modified will be retrofitted. And you speak of temporality. Look at what El Mundo said not many days ago: a decade and a million more indefinite with the People's Party's labour reform. With the labour reform of the People's Party, there are over 9 million women working, more than 17% have been reduced to timelessness, and the reality is that out of every four people who work three have indefinite contracts. And please be consistent. If the argument to endorse labour standards is that they have the support of social dialogue, well, we accept that they have achieved a forced consensus in labour reform, but the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos has just imposed an increase in the minimum wage with the only support of the trade unions, and by skipping the social dialogue, recently, and we maintain that the reform of the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos poses a prejudgment for the business fabric, with higher costs of recruitment, but it also poses a prejudgment for the workers, since instruments such as, for example, direct negotiation with the company for when it can cross times of difficulty. In addition, the disappearance of the end-of-work contract is causing things that, like today, a council that you govern, you say: the municipalities, in difficulty in consolidating the temporary staff and the help. This is today, today. So it has important prejudices in certain sectors, such as the construction sector, such as municipalities and universities, which used this modality frequently, for example, among other things, to hire researchers. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol shows a document.]] What a government of a country can't do is approve a rule without first evaluating its consequences. And let's do the way it's validated. It is regrettable that one of the most important laws in a country, along with the budgets, is adopted using a mistake. What happened in Congress was a manipulation of democracy, a manipulation of democracy, which could not be done in this parliament. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] There is no way in this Parliament to give, where you and yours will be respected. [[Murmurs.]] The result of the vote is a clear "no" to labour reform. [[Applause]] It is impossible to imagine that in Germany, France or Italy they do not allow a Member to explain his vote in freedom and that a mistake is used to pass a reform of this silence. Ladies and gentlemen, validating a job reform by an error in the vote further weakens a government like the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who has not achieved the support of its partners, nor even those who voted to invest it, who have now not given him the vote. In conclusion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the job reform, besides having no majority, is going the opposite way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u57	...of what the labour market needs, which is greater flexibility in working relationships and greater safety for workers. Don't get nervous, don't get nervous, because you, among other things, are the culprits that Moncloa's tenant is there, because you supported them. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u59	...and it's true that they negotiated a pact between Ana and Adriana and now you don't do it and you're still as calm, you're still as calm, you keep applauding. [[Murmurs.]] Which you're guilty of, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u61	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party — and I will finish, Mr President — are in time to correct in the afternoon, to vote favourably that these 70 million euros remain in the companies and in the Italian business fabric and that they cease to leave Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, the companies and the autonomous ones. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u62	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is I don't know very well where to start, but look, Mr Balsairo, the interest in Galicia is that 140 billion euros are coming to Spain and Galicia, because, if you were, this plan would be zero euros; zero euros, compared to 234 million euros. [[Applause]] That's the interest of Galicia and the love of Galicia. You're talking about being disappointing to our motion, but the truth is, I think the fraud is that you don't know if you don't want or didn't want to interpret the text correctly, because look, I'm going to read the first two points and then you tell me if you don't follow the interpretation. In the first we asked you to draw up a report in which all the funds received by the Council of Galicia from the State, the own funds reached by the Council of Galicia and its execution in the years 2020 and 2021 for employment promotion and for self-employed persons, pemes and micropemes affected by the measures taken to prevent the spread of the cover-19 virus. But you never want the Galician Union to act with transparency and provide the rest of the parliamentary groups with data, real data on their execution and the contribution of their own funds. And the second point, Mr. Balsairo, would be to establish mechanisms for collaboration with the State in order to be able to execute the 70 million euros not executed by the Galician Union — not executed by the Galician Union — was the one who left them unimplemented — in order to meet the pemmes, the micropemes and the self-employed. So don't talk of love to Galicia or of Galician interest, because they haven't been executed for their lack of management. Indeed, when you talk about labour reform, you and in this case also the Nationalist Block Galego, look, Unai Sordo, who is not the Socialist Party, Secretary General of Labour Commissions, says: "Working reform" – 1 February this year – "is an absolute amendment to the whole of 2012 of the People's Party". And when asked, "Is this the most important agreement of social dialogue?" Indisputably, indisputably; not only this legislation, but since the 1980s. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]] This said one of the unions. What does UXT say? For they celebrate the approval of the labour reform. Of course, the IGC has been excluded and therefore the BNG disagrees. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Balsairo, just data, data coming out these days in the press. In El País: "Indefinite recruitment occurs after labour reform." Faro de Vigo: "Work reform increases the indefinite in Galicia by 65% in January with a lower rise in unemployment." These are data, Mr. Balsairo. This is the reality of labour reform. And look, I'm asking them again: are you against the job reform? Because this job reform is supposed to bet on quality employment, leaving decades of precariousness, on that 2012 model that you so praise, of course, that it is based on wage devaluation, because you want to have very cheap labour. That's your model, your neoliberal model of how a society should work. This labour reform reduces timeliness, reinforcing the creation of quality employment; power to indefinite employment and stable employment; regains the prevalence of the sectoral agreement vis-à-vis the company; limits the temporary recruitment and encourages the contract madecontinuous; recovers indefinite ultraactivity and stops redundancies and protects the productive tissue, regulating a new instrument, the RED mechanism for flexibility and stabilisation of employment, and prevents EREs in public administrations. So both the BNG and the People's Party will vote against this motion, but they will vote against it ideologically, not for the benefits that come with this labour reform and not for what we can do to continue working with the state and so that Galicia can run once and for all those 70 million euros that it has left without executing for its ineffectiveness. And, of course, the amendment tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block cannot accept it. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the actions of the Government of Galicia in relation to the implantation of the textile fiber factory of the multinational Lusa Others in the region of the Lusse Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u65	No amendments were tabled. To formulate this motion you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning again. The motion brought today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is logically the result of the inquiry we made to Mr. Conde at the previous plenary session, but above all it is because it is very close today and after the words of the President of the Galician Council himself in an interview in a newspaper in the province of Lugo and also of Mr. Conde, because, after this unanimous agreement we adopted in this chamber, in which Others had to come to The Navy, Mr. Conde and Mr. Feijóo have completely forgotten the region of the Navy and in their statements only speak of the province of Lugo. Mr. Conde was even much more striking, because on Tuesday that plenary we reached an agreement at the last hour of the afternoon and Wednesday morning, during the interpellation, Mr. Conde completely forgot that parliamentary agreement adopted unanimously. It is true that it was a non-law proposition of the People's Parliamentary Group dealt with an amendment by the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, in which it was precisely my group that introduced the Navy's comarca in that resolution, but surprisingly Mr. Conde, during the two rounds of intervention which he had the following day, was unable to pronounce the name of the Navy, even though Mr. Count himself said to me: Mrs. Otero, do not worry, that if there is a unanimous agreement on this chamber it will be fulfilled. We are going to give you time and see if this agreement reached unanimously in this House is being met, because we are used to and used to failing to do so repeatedly. So today what we are looking for with this motion is this commitment to the People's Parliamentary Group to urge the Council of Galicia to really bring Others to our region, as was the agreement reached among the groups. Because — I repeat — what was voted unanimously in that plenary session was that the Union of Galicia should favour its preferred placement in the region of the Navy, and, if technical criteria do not guarantee the viability of this placement, in any case in the province of Lugo. This is what was voted on that full Tuesday, but the following Wednesday Mr. Conde completely forgot about this parliamentary agreement and did not at any moment pronounce the name of the Navy district. So, I've already told you that, if Others don't come to The Navy, the responsibility is for the Council of Galicia, the responsibility is for President Núñez Feijóo, the responsibility is for the Councillor Conde, because they also violate a parliamentary agreement adopted unanimously. So today what we're asking is that this commitment be made to make every effort to get Others to come to the Navy. I therefore ask the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, especially the Members representing the Navy, whether they will support the Navy as a priority or will remain only in that role which we have signed that day. Because this motion goes like that. This motion we present today is going to bet because Others comes to our region. So today, you have the opportunity to say with your vote, they will support that the Navy is the priority for the Galician Union to install the new Others plant. The question is very simple: Other for the Navy yes or Others for the Navy no? It's very easy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have it in your hand with your vote. It is, of course, such a mistrust that the Galician Council has given us to this parliamentary group that we will also have to ask for information, because Mr. Conde said that they have been working hard for others to install in our province. We really want to know what has been done, because it strongly draws attention that the mayors and mayors of the Navy, represented by the Commonwealth of municipalities, in which mayors and mayors of all political colors, have sent several letters, both to the President of the Council of Galicia and to Mr. Conde, to have an interview and to be able to have a work conversation to see the possibilities that Others will install in our region and, if there were any problems, to deal with them among all and among all and solve them. The truth is that the letter was sent on November 18, 2021 by the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities. He didn't know anything, nor did he respond to that letter, and surprisingly the day when the inquiry was being made to the counselor himself, he e-mailed an answer to that letter. The fact is that I could hand the letter to the representatives of the Commonwealth of Municipalities who were in the guest gallery following the inquiry. But that's the importance, that's what they say they want our comarca and all that they're working on by the Junta of Galicia for our comarca, but we see that everything remains in this, in declarations of intentions, in slogans that then in nothing is fulfilled. So it's you, the Galician Union, but you as a majority parliamentary group, which supports the Government, it's you who are contradicting one day after you have reached that agreement; we reached that agreement that preferably the Navy district, but the next day we talk about Lugo province and nothing to name The Navy. So the motion that we present today comes, above all, from the mistrust generated after the words of the President of the Council of Galicia, who spoke in that newspaper only from the province of Lugo, that the province of Lugo had water, energy and eucalyptus. And I wonder if Mr. Feijóo knows that the eucalyptus preferably where he is in our neighborhood, in the marine region. So he, who claimed those three reasons for others to settle in Lugo province, and said: water, energy and eucalyptus, because those three conditions dance in our neighborhood. Therefore, they have the responsibility to promote the choice of our region as headquarters for the installation of Others. And, of course, I ask you what you did, if you got to know that company the possibilities we have in our neighborhood, if the Galician Union has also given Others the availability of the marine mayors and mayors for all together and you work together to make that installation in our region a reality. Our today's motion is very clear, it has three points: one first, so that the Galician Union, within its exclusive industrial competences, promotes the installation of Others in our Navy, also making known and making every effort to discover the enormous potentials that we have in our region to make this location a reality. We also claim once again that the Galician Council will hold this working meeting with the representatives of the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities. And we also want a working group to be set up, and in that working group, in which Galician Union is located, in which the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities is located, and we can also be the company Other, if you let these representatives of the local entities of the Navy know that the Union says it sent to the Government of Spain to fund the next Generation. We'll also ask for that information on the appropriate ways, because the truth is, many of the things that are being commented on here, we see how later they're not true. So I told you that you can't put those Next Generation funds in your way so others won't come to The Navy. I was already telling you to locate Others, work to locate Others in the Navy, and that, of course, then among all of them, we have to work to ensure that, of course, those Next Generation funds can fund such an important project, that I think we all recognize, and that at no time we sell this as a smoke project, as Mr. Feijóo said in the press. We have claimed the installation of Others in our region since it became known that this company had settled in our territory, and not, as Mr. Feijóo said, after the closure of the tanks. So we started lying. We're the only ones who are putting on and offering is the little work that we can do, or much, but of course, the much work that mayors and mayors can do as well. So this motion today will prove whether there's that commitment or whether only that day they wanted it was not to go wrong on a note in the papers. Because do you really believe that the right location is not The Navy?, if it is precisely in that area where these three requirements were given that Mr. Feijóo said. So a lot of people talk about that since the Galician Union and the People's Parliamentary Group, they've been working for the Navy. Then don't turn your back on the Navy and work for others to settle in our neighborhood. I think they can do a lot, since the Galician Union, they're there too in that society and, therefore, they have management skills, they can do something more than throw balloons out and blame the rest. So, Junta must get to work already, she must stop half ink, she must also work together with the marine mayors and mayors, and of course, because she's looking for the best land, the best location for this new plant in our neighborhood. Mayors and mayors have demonstrated their willingness, they want to help. I don't know why Galician Union doesn't accept that offer. The co-governance they have so much to practice since the Galician Union is that, it's institutional loyalty, and that's also talking to the rest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u68	...of the administrations — and end, president — and work all together for a territory that we all know is going through. They stop looking somewhere else and, of course, they have the opportunity today to prove with facts that they are going to work for the Navy to have a future. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u70	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us. Again we talked about Others a few weeks later, and again we went on without knowing anything about their future. And this refers to and is mainly due to two little things, which are also very related to each other. The first is that the industrial policy of the People's Party is something like the Magi or like Santa Claus, or, better, like the Spatialist — since we are in Galicia — because you hear a lot of times about it but you never see it, but the case is that here are not the parents either, because it doesn't exist. And this is pretty well known in the Navy, because the fact that the Union does not have an industrial policy has led to the loss of hundreds and hundreds of jobs. And so it is necessary to remember that this is the Government that couldn't save a single company from which they were in danger in the Navy, but not only in the Navy, but in any other region of the country. And that's why today the Socialist Party at its first point asks the PP that it can't carry out, or at least that it's not willing to do, because it's been almost thirteen years without it. And it's just that PSOE urges Together to exercise its powers in industry and struggle to implant Others in the Navy. And I wonder, how are they going to exercise their skills in industry? Because, if it goes wrong, what are you going to do? Who did they blame? They also have to be careful with what they ask the Galician Council to do, because they've been doing so for 13 years, of course, and we have to be aware that it's the Government that takes longer and spends more time looking for guilty of things than in solving them. So, ask the Government of Feijóo to have a clear and determined industrial policy, because it's a lot to ask for. And — secondly to be taken into account — the evidence is again seen — also said by the companion of the Socialist Party — that companies send more than the Galician Union. We've seen it for years and years, and to this day it's still clear, and not because I say it and the Nationalist Block Galego says it; the Industry Advisor himself says it and the president himself in this country. There were several phrases, all in the same sense and all derived from each other, which said something like what the company will decide on where to install Others; the company will decide, it has the total decision. So one asks, besides what we came to do here with your votes, because here we voted a lot of things and then the company decides entirely, why Mr. Feijóo announced the bomb and dish at the beginning of this legislation that would install the company Others in the province of Lugo, as we voted fifteen days ago that it was specifically in the Navy, because at the end the company would decide it, and then this is like a little bit of a paper house — not the series— But what's the matter? — and that is the question — what happens when companies do what they want? Well, in our region, in the Navy, we know it well. When companies do what they want, it turns out that in our country's full wind boom, a company that manufactures aero-operators goes to the top and 100 people go to the street, as was the case with Vestas. And when a company does what it really wants, because a factory that generates more than a thousand jobs and that accounts for a third of Lugo's GDP because it's hanging on a thread and everything because some U.S. lords are coming better. Well, a government, in addition, that is unwilling to get companies to send everything they want and was unable to save any of these companies that were in danger in our country, has to look for exits. And what does he do when he has nothing to offer? So play a little bit with the need of a society that is in need of work and needs to hold on to a burning nail. And he plays with the need beyond that he himself generated, too -- you have to say -- with the complicity of the state government; we all remember what he did in Alcoa. But he plays with that need and the last few weeks in the Navy also made it very clear, because they appear suddenly, week by week, too, projects that will save everything, miracle solutions that come in addition to suddenly and that look like candy that comes out of the sky, but they're always in the air and never touch the earth. And these projects, in addition to the industrial policy of the People's Party, always have two things in common: the first, as I said, is that they are always abstract, they're in the air, they're always smoke and they're always promises and we never see them. And this is something that makes a lot of people sick, and so it was seen in the Navy district and so it was seen at the general strike in November, because it's decades and decades of failing to keep promises. And the second is that, curiously — because everything here is always a coincidence — there is always one or a hypothetical beneficiary company that belongs to what we could call — as it has been said here today in the morning — the PP family. I'm sorry, I didn't do it with an Italian-American accent, but you haven't spoken in addition to the direct family, as in the case of your Madrid companion for now, but yes to the family you choose from. It sounds very nice this sentence, the family you choose, the friends and friends who always appear surrounded by their party, those who will bind still not know how and by magic the windmills to Alcoa, those who will leave our sailors without fish with their mills, those who have the oligopolie of residences, those who — as you have seen today — monopolize transport. And, of course, the best of all — which you certainly know very well — the Deputation of Ourense, because when I saw these days the Netflix series, something worse than House of Cards or Baron Noir — for those who like them, when I saw these days from Thursday the Netflix series, I have to recognize that it is difficult to work because it is quite interesting, although it is very sad, because it said: how much you have to learn Mrs Ayuso! [[Applause]] I don't know if you'll meet a family called Baltar family in Ourense, because how much you have to learn to do these weavers, and with more elegance, it fits! And this, as I said, can laugh, but really the story is sad, because it's very sad, because every week it's just showing that you conceive the institutions -- those they both worship -- as the means to please your family, your friends and friends. And so we continue with the theme of Others, waiting for their friends to decide where they want to locate the factory, and besides, playing everything in a letter, playing The Navy for a letter, without prediction, without structures, without any kind of plan, and making a whole country surrender to what they decide a few; and I always remember: a few who have not presented themselves to any election but who send more than this government, unfortunately. As far as the other points of the initiative are concerned, we have to say that anything that improves communication, collective work and, above all, sharing information — that this process is rather eager and quite full of obscurantism — because it seems very good to us. But, in short, what we have to talk about here is that the Navy needs work, but it needs a job, a structural plan, an industrialization plan, that the government of this country is present something tangible, something other than the flower of a day. And when we need this, you're afraid to speak directly about the Navy. They already put the collection on him the other day that it had to be if the technical conditions were to assess him -- the large broom -- it would be bad luck that there was nowhere to be. And I, of course, have to do so a little analysis, and I think: it can be normal, because maybe restrict it all to the Navy if the company finally says that dwarfs, because it can cause problems, and how well it is known that they are the ones who command them, because they don't want to risk themselves. To see today and to see what's going on. Finally, we expect them to change their course. We hope that this company will settle in the Navy and generate all those jobs, thousands and thousands of jobs that it will generate; we would — I repeat — be the first to cheer up. But above all -- and most importantly, because this is such a general issue -- is that this government has to stop being that photocase of friendly companies, friends and friends, and start having an industrial policy. Because while they're dedicated to ending up with each other in Genoa, 13 in the Navy, there's people on the street who are still on the streets because of their non-existent industrial policy, absolutely. And, in the end, of reflection — and I think it has to serve today, I don't want to do much harm, that it must be bad these days, so quickly, we're going to be good, I think this reasoning has come to everyone and everyone, if they do that to their party partners, what will they not do to the rest? [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u71	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We are going to try to analyse with rigour and, of course, with regard to the subject of this initiative, I do not know if it has happened, as Mrs Otero said. This question is probably not that it is done, because it was really the subject of debate in the previous plenary session, a plenary session in which I have to admit that also neighbors and neighbors of the Navy valued very positively and I have to admit that they even congratulated us; even some journalists put in the media at the end of the week that was an important agreement, which was almost miraculous, because some were supporting the industries. Well, you see, constantly, Mrs. Otero, your partners are always criminalizing, today they even said with accents... that, well, I'd like you to remove it from the agenda, because I told you that my party has always defended job creation and that it has defended self-government, that it has defended small businesses and large businesses, and it will continue to defend it badly that it weighs them. [[Applause]] Well, some for that, because we're very used to criminalizing the productive fabric of our country, and also by looking, that I think the two parties that we represent Mrs. Otero and me because we come to an agreement, an agreement of great transcendence, which, if I may, will read again: "The Parliament urges the Galician Union to give priority to the design process of the first textile fibre factory in Spain for being a great bet both from the economic and labour point of view and from the strategic point of view, since it would allow the wood production cycle to be closed in Galicia, as well as its location preferably in the region of the Navy, and, if technical criteria do not guarantee the viability of this location, in any case in the province of Lugo, through its representation in Impulse society." Point 2 — also very important — "Reiterating to the Government of Spain the need to establish support lines within the framework of the European Funds Next Generation for the development of this project as quickly as possible". I believe that with a high level of vision, with a positive attitude, that reflected, high and clear, commitment to the region of the Navy and the province of Lugo. I pledge that we have said, loud and clear — I said in speaking terms — at the initiative of the previous plenary, that the Councillor and Vice-President in this same parliament reaffirmed the following day and that today we again stage clearly, forcefully and concisely. And they're not gonna move us out of there. [[Applause]] Well, said that, the Socialist Group registered two initiatives: one, on the 11th at 16.30, and then on the 11th at 16.50. We read them four or five times, they're exactly the same, I don't know what you mean. Well, she may not have liked the way Mrs. Otero defended her. It may also be that some mayors who couldn't come to the debate the other day — I want to think that because of scheduling problems, because it is striking that their own mayor accompanied her at the initiative—they wanted to come and take the picture, so they could have two pictures, and thus complete the Marine panorama. Perhaps at the very best in the previous plenary session, in which I also tried not to get into provocations, because it seemed to me that the matter was important enough, that even — why not? — some investors might be listening, and finally we are the reflection of the popular will, which is agreed here is, of course, referred to by the support we have from our neighbours and neighbours, and I believe that there are certain political debates in which, when we have reached an agreement with that height of vision, we must not fall. But I'm not going to hide it, and then perhaps that obsession with getting away from your initiative, Mrs. Otero, the province of Lugo, that behind you there may be some movement of socialist leaders that for some reason, that you certainly have more information than I do, they're interested in taking you to another province. And here I insist: that information already had it in the previous plenary, but it seemed to me that I shouldn't take out the collation because, of course, the height of sights that we were showing, that message of certainty, of safety and unanimity, so unusual, that it is now so important to citizenship and it is so necessary when we face projects of this magnitude, it shouldn't be dismissed. But since you now turn the deal around, a full later, because it's been ten days, it could also be that you've won the support of the State Government of the Next Generation Funds for that project. I'd be the first one today to recognize him, of course, that job and applaud him too. But it's also funny: you don't quote it; it's more, you get to say here that it comes and then we'll see if there's another project, as you've already put in the previous initiative, like that one at the end and at the end didn't give you much value. So, if there is no agreement from the State Government, which in its first turn did not mention it; it says that they will work as they have worked so far; of course, the references that you have well known; although I do not share that catastrophic vision of the Navy, which remains one — here goes the advertising cuneiform— of the province from certainly the most beautiful, richer and where many people live dignifiedly from their work, because anyone who hears you often seems to be living under a palm tree, but well, making that slaughter, making that slaughter, I sincerely believe that in his last turn to clarify three or four questions. First, why do you delete this point of agreement Lugo? Secondly, why does the unanimous agreement of the previous plenary change? What are you trying to justify, Mrs. Otero? Would you rather go to another province? Or are you the one who works exclusively for a headline, turning his back on the Navy? Let me be deeply worried, deeply worried. The Socialist Party with the Navy and the employment really isn't to be trusted. I've often told you that when Alcoa workers entered the Provincial Deputy of Lugo, they came to the cry of "socialists of package." And if they don't know, I'm sorry to remind them that Alcoa's vats are stopped. And they're stopped because Alcoa wasn't able to have a competitive price of electricity to keep manufacturing aluminum. And for the first time, by governing Pedro Sánchez of the Socialist Party, which you represent, Mrs Otero, supported by the Nationalist Block of Galicia, therefore also very complicating in that decision, it was precisely who was not able, despite promising it on five occasions, to approve the electrointensive status. [[Applause]] And you intend to delegate that management to the marine mayors. I'm the only one who can speak with that sensitivity, because thanks to the support of the neighbors, I've had that honor. But I also have to recognize him. They can't teach us lessons either. And you, who is from Burela, wouldn't possibly be much more than able here to give some clarification of some other project which is of great interest to the Navy, which can generate many jobs, and which is precisely a mayor ruling by the Socialist Party and which is currently pending a decision by a socialist government. And we're going to read it: Burela's salmon breeding plant pervades the objections of the Coast. This is not what the People's Party says, this is what the voice of Galicia says, and undoubtedly... well, I think when we talk about employment we should laugh a little less. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I already know that the Galego Nationalist Block always uses for its debate stories; this time he told us about Santa Claus, about the House of Paper, about playing unless I know that... but look, with the things to eat, you don't play, with the things to eat, you don't play. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So said the People's Party and the group I represent, at this moment, on this initiative, remain in the agreement that unanimously supported this parliament the full past. About him I invite you to build any alternatives, any improvements, any implementation. Yes, at least have the coherence to bring a commitment from the Government of Pedro Sánchez's Next Generation funds. But the Popular Parliamentary Group says, loud and clear, that this factory is located, that its preferred location is in the Navy, and, if technical criteria do not guarantee its viability at this location, in any case, in the province of Lugo. We said this in this plenary session today, and we will continue to say this every time you bring this initiative here. We're not worried about a headline, it seems you're more concerned about you, what we're really worried about is that this factory has enough funds to be able to carry out, that the Navy will undoubtedly be the beneficiary, because you know it and I, which is where the resource is, that there are many owners who have on your mountain -- we say so many times -- their pension fund and an important heritage that we want to take care of, and that we know that this project will undoubtedly allow you to put in value. And a second, or thirteen seconds, which is what I have left. Look, it's certainly complicated moments, surely, but I won't deny you that in either of your forces we have great references. Probably from Mr. Pedro Sánchez's Manual of Resistance or Mr. Formoso's last organization as president, probably a socialist with a sentence of which - what do you want me to say? - he probably doesn't feel too proud either. Or what am I gonna tell you? You, the BNG, could advise them very much. What am I gonna tell you about Amio, right, what am I gonna tell you? I wasn't there, but what you saw... so, as president, that I'm almost legitimized there to make a reflection, the party problems leave them out of this camera, because we have a lot of places to solve them. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And in this case, above all, that there's no time left... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u74	...to those debates that really pay attention to citizens, which are the debates of creating jobs, fixing populations and continuing to work for Galicia, Lugo and the Navy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author of the motion, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u76	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mrs Candia, we don't talk about the problems of the parties... but if they are you... did I say anything about the problems of the parties? No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that, Mrs. Candia, I feel pretty nervous about you too. Must be another one that's hot in the band, see if you're going to go out to the playing field. It seems a lie: you, who is from the Navy, in the province of Lugo, who have this beautiful area, so beautiful, that you too are in such a hurry to take that step to get to Madrid. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were talking about a resistance manual. Of course, now... which would we pay more attention to: that of Mr. Sánchez or that of Mr. Casado? [[Murmurs.]] Because of resistance now these days I think you also know a little bit. Look, Mrs. Candia, let's get serious, as you said at the beginning of your intervention. I agree with you that, in truth, in that plenary we adopted an agreement that was well valued in the Navy; I agree with you, Mrs. Candia. And there I said it was an initiative that came out of the People's Party bench, that we dealt with an amendment from the Socialist Party, and that at that time we put the Navy in the center; we said Others had to go to the Navy. But of course, then the German Government contradicts the agreement we will adopt the day before. Because, Mrs. Candia, check the hemerotheque and review Mr. Conde's intervention. At no time did he pronounce the name of the Navy County. And later that weekend in a newspaper Mr. Feijóo was unable to pronounce the name of the Navy either. It only referred to the province of Lugo. Therefore, those who have turned that Parliamentary agreement back — and I am sorry — will have to hurt you much more than me — it was your Government. Mr Conde and Mr Feijóo have not ratified the parliamentary agreement we have adopted; that Parliamentary agreement which, indeed, was well received in the Navy. But then whoever has the skills to take him forward, which is the German Government, and not mu. There's nothing from the Navy. Look, Mrs Candia, what remains very clear and high, what the Popular Parliamentary Group is going to say today, is that others for the Navy, no. Don't come with demagogy and say, we bet on the Navy. No, no, no, no. You today, voting 'no' to this motion, say no to Others for the Navy. What we're asking for in addition to that working group is that they get to know each other. Because look, the truth is, experience also leads us to be very suspicious of the Galician Union and the People's Parliamentary Group. We also don't know if the Galician Union actually introduced this project to the Government of the State so that it can be financed with the next generation funds; we don't know that. We'll ask for it through the regulatory channels and see if at any point I can get it to us, if it exists. Look, Mrs. Candia, then you make a whole revolution. Let's go back to Alcoa. Of course, to tell us that we didn't get a stable energy price... who set that regulatory framework? Who set it up? What did you do until 2018? Did you get that stable energy price? No, no, no, no. So... some minister had already said that in 2017... they're very nervous today, I really can't even talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u78	No, shame is what's being given elsewhere. Shame isn't... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u79	Quiet, please. We're finishing up now, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u80	It's very clarinet. Yes or no others in the Navy? Will that be the bet of the Galician Group and the People's Parliamentary Group or are we now throwing balloons out and now, of course, what we support? Of course, Mr. Conde said: go very quietly, Mrs. Otero, which is a parliamentary agreement and the Galician Union will comply with it. But, Mrs Otero, how can you doubt the German Government that it does not comply with a parliamentary agreement? But now, with the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group on this motion, the truth is that we already see where the shots go. No, look, what I'm telling you is that you still have time to value that change of vote; besides, if the number of Members and Members is not enough, we can always wait ten more minutes to make that vote. And then, therefore, I'm telling you that the Board... has already given the situation in this chamber, I'm not telling any lies. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, the Union cannot and must not abdicate its responsibility to promote the choice of the Navy. That's why I ask you, and, Mrs. Candia, ask your Government what he did to get others to settle in the Navy. Because, in fact, what is clear to this Socialist Parliamentary Group, after listening to Mr. Conde and Mr. Feijóo, is that the Union has neither done nor will do anything to promote the installation of Others in our region. Therefore, and as Mr. Castro said, it is true that the marine region is very wide. There will be many places where these three requirements of water, electricity and, above all, eucalyptus are met. So now you come up with the excuses of whether the technical conditions are what they are and if the next generation funds are going to arrive, it's very clear. Are you going to support others coming to the Navy, yes, or are you not going to support them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u82	So they've got it very clear. And, on the other hand, thank you for the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u84	At the end of the debate on motions, we started by voting on the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas, on the wind policy of the Galician Union. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Mr. Martín Seco pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Martín Seco? Do you accept a point vote? [[Mr. Martín Seco pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u85	The vote on point 4 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u86	Let's go back. Which points do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u87	Only point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u88	Let us first vote on point 4. We vote. Voting of point 4 of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the wind policy of the Galician Union The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u89	And now we are voting on the rest of the motion. We vote. Vote of the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, with the exception of point 4, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the wind policy of the Galician Union The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u90	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the policy of the Government of Greece on the execution of the State approach funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan. We vote. [[Mr. Fernández Alfonso asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Fernández Alfonso, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u91	We call for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u92	He called for a point of order. Which points do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u93	The first two separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u94	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u95	The first two.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u96	The first two separately. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol asks for the floor.]] Mr. Balsairo, why do you want a word? Give a voice to Mr. Balsairo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. We call for a point of order. We want to separate point number two.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u98	They want to separate point number two. Do you accept this separation? Accepts it at two o'clock. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So there's a point in common. Let's start, if you like, by voting point 2, because they asked for separation. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the policy of the German Government on the execution of the State approach funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u99	Now we're voting point number one. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the policy of the Government of Greece on the execution of the State approach funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u100	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. Voting of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, except for the points already voted on, on the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the policy of the Government of Greece on the execution of the State approach funds of the Fourth Rescue Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 13; votes against, 57. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u101	Finally, we voted on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero. We vote. Voting of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the actions of the Italian Government in relation to the implementation of the textile fibre factory of the multinational Lusa Others in the region of the Lusa Navy The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u102	We suspended the session until 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u103	Let's restart the session. Agenda change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u104	We resume the session, with the accumulated discussion of non-law proposals, namely number 1 and number 6 corresponding to the following: G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the elaboration by the Galician Union of a protocol that prevents the financial exclusion of Galician citizenship G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and fifteen other Members, on the reitegation by the Galician Union to the Spanish Government of the need for a study that serves as the basis for the elaboration of a state plan against financial exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u105	Amendments have been tabled. In particular, the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has a self-amendment and an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group there is an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u106	We begin with the debate, and for that we have the floor first, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few weeks there has been a debate and a concern, reflected in the collection of hundreds of thousands of firms throughout the state, to defend financial inclusion. We're talking about a fundamental right to have a first citizenship in a democracy and a country of first. Because financial systems channel investment savings, and without the right to financial inclusion for every citizen in our country, without having access to our country's bank, to financial resources and services wherever it is, we would be undermining people's rights in order to have a decent life. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House a non-legislative proposal to urge the central government of the State, the Government of Spain and the assembly of parliamentary chambers to develop, according to the Senate's approval, a set of measures to bet on financial inclusion and accessibility over the next three months. And I think it's time, too, to put the entire capacity of the Government of Galician Union to support that line of action. I was amazed at the parliamentary commission the other day, and I was amazed because the People's Parliamentary Group voted 'no' to do duties to defend financial inclusion in Galicia. And you are bringing here today a non-law proposal that the Government of Spain and the General Administration of the State call upon them to put in place the mechanisms necessary to promote financial inclusion. That's what you're doing. Or haven't you seen the news yesterday and today? I don't know if enough — let's give you time to see it and we'll be demanding all the necessary measures — but it's an important step, a step that allows the cash schedules to be expanded in Galicia in an imminent manner. But in addition to claiming the Government of the State, the Council of Galicia has to do its duty. And that's why we want to ask the House as a whole to support a non-legislative proposal that you are thinking about the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks from day to day so that there is no financial exclusion, so that in view of this progress that is being made through digitization, which allows fundamental advantages of competitiveness, connectivity, accessibility to financial resources, but which also has risks, we can tackle those risks. And we have to do this so that no one because of his age, because of where he lives in Galicia — when there is a part of the territory with difficulties connecting to the networks and the broadband — or especially because of disability, can see his rights to access the financial system watered down. That is why we call on the House's unanimous vote for a non-legislative proposal which it proposes is to urge and address the Government of Spain to put all the necessary initiatives within three months, as it has been agreed, and to take effect within six months of yesterday's agreement with the main financial institutions of the country, with the association of the bank — the ECSC — and with the cooperatives. But in addition, Junta has to do something. What it can't be to come to the People's Party with cynicism to ask the Government of Spain to work as it is doing and that there is not a single commitment or a single measure here, no progress to support the financial inclusion of the Greeks and the Greeks [[Applause]] And that's where the People's Party goes wrong, that's where the Government of Galicia goes wrong, if you're telling the people who live in rural areas, our elders -- when there's a report from the Banco de España saying that two out of three adults don't have the habit of being working digitally to be able to access the bank -- telling people with the greatest vulnerability that are exempt from their financial rights. I ask you to change that position -- and I do it with the hand of a country that needs to have an accessible financial system -- we ask you to carry it out on important issues, we ask you to make a real diagnosis of how digitization and accessibility is at this time in each of the municipalities in Galicia, to see how it can be accessed. That they also do so taking into account the conditions of age, of connection to the digital channel, and especially disability, to know exactly what is happening in Greek citizenship. And for that, we have to take those measures, bet on that financial inclusion, take all the measures and guarantee a letter of financial services that commits the Government of the Union to giving the Greeks and the Greeks rights in the financial system throughout this legislation. Because this non-law proposal that we put here has a point that is important, that it is important to ensure that no rights to financial inclusion in this legislation are lost. We have to ask the Government of the People's Party of Galicia to approve this non-law proposal to ensure that throughout this legislation there is no council in Galicia to see their rights to have financial inclusion and connectivity reduced; that they work so that where offices have been closed over this time they can be reopened in what is left of legislation. We cannot approve that the only measure you propose is to give three million euros to the financial institutions to open cashier, when they have done more for themselves these financial institutions, which over the past few weeks and following what the State Government is doing, they have committed themselves, one: to open cash time throughout the morning — one step, not the transcendental but important —; and, more importantly, not to close a bank office again in a municipality where there is only one office. That's what financial institutions do to the edge of the U.S. government, which is absent, which is neither expected nor expected. A U.S. government who bet on converting the old boxes into a banking entity, which I assumed 8,000 million euros public for that route, that even the National Audience in a car has already established that Caisanova would never have been intervened and that it was Junta's decision that happened. That is why the President of the Union — who is not here now in the Chamber, because he will obviously have other tasks to attend — must, before making any decision, commit himself to the Greeks and the Greeks and have to deploy all these measures to ensure that we continue and that we can maintain a financial connection, which is important. There are around 50 municipalities in Galicia that don't have any bank offices today. In the last few years, since 2008, 1,000 banking offices have been closed in Galicia; in the area of legislation, nearly 200 banking offices and in municipalities, for example, The Bath have been left without one. And that's what's happening with a government of the People's Party that has the undoubtedness of bringing a non-law proposition to this chamber to say that they're not going to do anything or have any engagement with the Greeks and the Greeks because I'm just an agency to send the PNL to Madrid to see if something is solved there, when you guys don't do anything and that's where we're going wrong. [[Applause]] And I know that the People's Party has historically a great alliance with the bank, with the private bank too, but I ask them to govern for the Greeks and for the Greeks. I ask them to vote in favour of a non-legislation proposal which is reasonable, which is drafted and treated with sufficient silence not to hurt, but yes to build. And I ask the whole Parliament as well as we are prepared to incorporate also what BNG proposes as a replacement amendment, as an addendum to the whole text, because it incorporates new issues — it does not incorporate others that we have raised — which are coherent and reasonable. I think it's time to work, and I know that today the People's Party is not thinking about this, but I ask you to think about the Greeks and the Greeks. I understand that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party is no longer thinking of the PP—as all Spain is talking about—you are thinking of whether here in the summer there will be a new president in front of the Galician Union. But whether or not they make the transition, I ask them to rule Galicia, because it is their responsibility, that they don't let any more days pass without taking financial inclusion measures for so many Greeks and Greeks who feel excluded, who rule for the Greeks and think of those who have the most difficulties. This non-law proposal is a proposal to defend rural Galicia, it is to defend the equality of rights of the Greeks and the Greeks to have financial inclusion, in order to have banking offices open in a presence. Also to take the measures that are possible within the legal framework to tighten up a little to the bank, which has a lot of benefits and which have to have more compliance with the country. And also, in addition, it's a non-law proposition thinking about so many Welsh people with some kind of disability, for which their rights to financial inclusion are always more complex. I ask for a support for a non-law proposition that, beyond any party key, is a country key proposition. And that if the People's Party, as you argued in the committee itself, saying that we were coming, that there was that... we saw nothing, but if we were to come, what you would have to do is have voted in favour, and the problem is that in your speech they are empty of commitment and credibility because there was no turning point. And the worst thing is that they're naked before the Greeks and the Greeks, because at the moment that all administrations know that we have to work on the financial inclusion of the biggest and most difficult people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u109	...the PP is not even expected. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u110	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Knight, less prepotence and a little more humility, because probably what he talks about most is what he has to shut up. I think lately I should shut up a little more. [[Applause]] We are faced with a non-law proposal before which we must hear a little more, to have humility, and of course the strong impact that it has had and has bank restructuring on the Greek territory, on the national territory and also on the European territory. We are faced with a situation such as the closure of banking institutions, with heavy customer care and very low hours, which covers branches located both in rural and urban areas, and which generates a deep concern and anxiety in the Greeks and the Greeks. And, if not, we share that concern with you from the People's Party in Galicia, for some time now, Mr. Knight. You were talking for weeks. This is a social dissatisfaction with a problem such as access to banking and financial services, which already affects more than half of the Spanish municipalities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you can only take a short walk through any town or city in Spain to observe that we are facing a big problem. The economic and financial crisis of 2008 was the starting point for a strong process of restructuring the financial sector. In the autumn of 2017, the European Central Bank itself published a report indicating that the consolidation process in the banking sector has since the beginning of the crisis in 2008, the disappearance of 25% of European banks. Finally, the financial crisis has led to a major restructuring in the banking sector, not only in Spain but also throughout the European Union. And by putting data, Mr. Caballero, on top of the table, and of course seeing the extent to which the state government has to solve, I tell you that, according to data from the Banco de España corresponding to last September, in the last year, the banking sector has closed almost 11% of its offices. The current 20,421 branches are almost 56 per cent less than 46,118 in 2008. If we compare data from the last six years, on September 30, 2015, we see that in Galicia there were 1,719 offices open, compared to the 1,096 accounts in 2021. If we move the problem to the state level, this data is still much more worrying, with a loss of 56% of the offices, and even communities like Catalan reach 64%. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they are alarming data and they express the need for action by public administrations as a whole. We are faced with a national problem, which seems to be that Mr Caballero does not want to acknowledge, but he has already retreated - I will tell you why - and we believe that a solution is needed at the same level, at the state level, that since the People's Group, Mr Caballero, we have been complaining on numerous occasions, with complaints that have moved to the competent body at the national level, but also from this Parliamentary House, despite only the favourable votes of the People's Parliamentary Group and the abstention of nationalists and socialists from Greece. We're amazed, Mr. Knight. Yes, we are quite astonished at his abstention. An abstention which clearly reflects that for the groups of the representative opposition in this Parliament must not be a particularly important issue, or a particularly necessary and crucial issue, the fact that the most vulnerable have quality access to financial services. Look, Mr. Knight, we want to welcome you, because you have presented an initiative and self-administered it, and it has nothing to do with the initial self-amended. We therefore welcome you from the People's Parliamentary Group, thank you for this 180-degree turn and acknowledge the demand for the Government of Spain to implement the measures necessary to prevent financial exclusion, as we have claimed from this parliamentary group for many times. All public administrations, in collaboration with financial institutions, must ensure that all the population of Greece, regardless of where they live and their age, has access to banking and financial services and must pay particular attention to the rural and ageing population. In fact, Mr. Knight -- you just don't know, but I'm telling you -- look, there are useful formulas already. As for your self-amendment - which makes the second and third point - there are already formulas in that area, as the initiative - that you should not like, but we still do not know very well your position - according to the Council of Galicia and the Fegamp, where all the municipalities are represented, which since the second half of 2019, before the inaction of your government - because nothing has been done to this day, with the great pressure they have - will allow them to many localities that lack a bank office to have a cash box in their municipality. Mr. Knight, you agree with a simple ATM, but from the People's Parliamentary Group we go further, and we want the neighbours to be able to count on the financial and training services. Through the self-consumption bodies, within their powers, it is already working to defend bank users by organising information campaigns and providing advice on financial services. During these months, the German Government, within its powers, has carried out numerous measures to prevent financial exclusion, but the involvement of the State Government is necessary. Last week, in the High House, an initiative was unanimously adopted by the People's Group that urged the Government of Spain to establish the necessary legislative changes and to ensure the personalized care of bank financial services. It is the responsibility of the Bank of Spain, Mr. Caballero, that I believe you are discussing it — I don't know if you may have any doubts. I tell you, look, on yesterday, we knew the signing of the protocol between the first Vice-Presidentship of the Government, the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the bank employers; and, of course, this parliamentary group, as a party of government that is, we value it positively. Because, Mr. Knight, retreating is wise. And welcome, I said, welcome. And just as my intervention began, we believe that there must be coordination and planning at the state level to be effective and not fall into a bag of recently announced measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-law proposal tabled by this parliamentary group brings two clear objectives: to legislate a regulation regulating the universal provision of financial services; and the second - and no less important, Mr Caballero - the quality service with measures to facilitate the access of the population to financial services. We believe, Your Honor - and we wait - in that correction you made in your self-amendment. We count on the support of the Galego Nationalist Block — we believe — for the unanimous adoption of this non-law proposal, in order to ensure equal opportunities and the well-being of people. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u112	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] By the non-proposing group, the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u113	Better use the fifteen minutes, Mr. President, that if we don't, then we have to hear that it's sudden interest in the financial exclusion of opposition groups, even though we've been reporting it for years. Then we'll take advantage of it. Well, good afternoon. I wanted to start by questioning the object of what we talked about a little bit. Because the first thing we have to be clear is that the problems of bank abuse, although there is a sudden media interest due to the case of the retired Valencian who had an important echo, the truth is that it's not new. Loss of bank offices, loss of employment, misunderstood digitisation, anti-competitive agreements, etc. They weren't born with the pandemic. And neither are they born spontaneously by a magical conjunction of nature, but it must be said that they obey a roadmap that is premeditated, which is calculated and is orchestrated and tied and well-attached, since the year 2008 — since this profound transformation of the financial system began — and that you have seen right now in the pandemic, simply a new opportunity to move forward in two directions that the banking system has very clear: one, to accelerate in that process of concentration and banking oligopolization; and another, to keep sucking resources from the public era to remain in a permanent rescue, which basically makes while draining resources from public administrations, the bank makes more money and to meet that statement that "the bank always wins." The problem is, on that road, the bank found in governments -- in the central, but especially in the English -- great allies, instead of finding a containment dam for the defense of the interests of the territories and people. And it's more -- I'm correct -- it's not like they're getting sidetracked anymore, they've done their best to favor this road map. Therefore, amnesia cannot be made conscious of all that. The 2008 crisis had many things, and I also had a lot of things on the financial system, because, far from undertaking a reform that would ensure transparency, public control, guardianship, intervention and thus avoid repetition of history and repetition of issues such as brick bubbling, political actions, the actions of the public authorities, supervisors and responsible governments were in the opposite direction. And, in fact, what was done was a so-called "restructuring of the sector" that the People's Party and the Socialist Party in their day, which was to concentrate and oligopolize the financial sector further. We have lived in this country the privatization and banking of boxes, we have lived as if the number of entities were reduced, and how they were subjected, in addition, to a single supervision of failed state institutions. We saw how the Banco de España failed, we saw how CNV or CNMC failed, and we saw it in cases as painful for this country as those of the preferences, but also in others like those of the ground clauses, and we see it now as well with the issue of the timetable and cash pacts, as I will then mention. In short, a process has been carried out which, for Galicia, above all, has had quite disastrous and delicate consequences, and which we pay today in our economic and financial system. The clearest and most obvious is the loss of those savings boxes, the loss of Galicianness and the capacity to link with the territory of banking entities, as on its day were Banco Pastor or Banco Gallego. And it also started that walk -- which I insist on -- is accelerated in the pandemic, but it doesn't come from there -- of closures of entities, redundancies of people, precarious jobs, etc. To show, an example that we have put on other occasions the debate in this House is like the saving of Greek emigration and goes to investments elsewhere in the state. Each year the difference between deposits and credits - the latest data from the Banco de España - is more than 26 billion euros in our country. So this, by putting it in line with other figures, as it was the cost for the public era of the bank rescue — because it is something to be said too — because it has to be said that the latest data from the Banco de España in December 2021 raises the bill nothing more and nothing less than a hundred and five billion euros! One hundred and five billion euros from those who won't recover or ten thousand; that is, they won't recover even 10%. And that count is nothing more and nothing less than the nine budgets of the Galician Union, so let's get an idea. So the conclusion is that we live a robbery by the armed hand and that after 2008, in the same way that no decisions were made to prevent the repetition of history, neither were decisions made to prevent the robbery by the armed hand again from repeating. And you have to ask yourself, what happened after 2020? What happened after March 2020? A pandemic broke out in our lives — as we all know — and the bank saw a great opportunity to take a step forward in its lust. That's what we're living for; that's what we've been living for these two years and what we're living for right now. It becomes reality that the second parts were not good, and we are in the second part of a great banking concentration process. And although this new crisis is not of financial origin, we're seeing entities speed up their transformation steps in the sector. First, we live a covert rescue, and that must also be said, because in the end, the ICO credits, the economic support mechanisms and even the European funds themselves are also serving as a covert rescue to the bank. And secondly, the bank pays, thanks for the services provided with this roadmap of more entity locks, more imposition of a misunderstood digitization and in some cases even we could speak directly of little shame. Because, of course, we live an unprecedented pandemic, we have to take unprecedented economic measures, but we also live unprecedented disgrace. Because I want to remember that some entity, so award-winning and so supported by the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party in general, like Abanca, had the boldness to take advantage of all of them being confined to their homes to increase their commissions. Not to mention the absolute shamelessness of all banking entities with such painful procedures for the Greeks and Greeks as willary ones, which are already directly on guard trial. [[Applause]] And the reality is that today's situation has been warned of by active and passive. I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that, indeed, thanks to this case of the retired of Valencia, which took so much media echo, other mobilizations were visible; from pensioners in Lugo, Santiago or A Coruña, to trade union forces in various cities and municipalities in our country, consumer associations, etc. Even in this Parliament we have discussed and talked on many occasions about the consequences of this banking restructuring in many respects. What happens now? For, indeed, with this increase in media attention — which is welcome to bring a solution — there is suddenly a great desire to wash consciences and there is also a fear of the bank in a reputable crisis. And that's unique and exclusively what made something move over the last few days. That's exclusively because the initiative brought by the People's Party is practically identical to one that we discussed in September. In September, when we discussed, there was already an earlier agreement of the Senate made of good will to put solutions to some of the problems, and so far nothing had moved. And, of course, the problem is that apart from not moving anything, governments have a responsibility, and it must be said that the central government could have legislated before. We are now ordered that in the future, in the immediate — different deadlines appear in the press — if it is going to legislate. We'll see. But suddenly, the Nationalist Block of Galicia seems to us to be insufficient what happened yesterday. What the employer offers and the gesture of goodwill on the part of the Government seems to us to be insufficient. We will be waiting for that deadline, for how it is verified, but, of course, there are issues that we have already lived on. Because I want to remember that there is a code of good banking practices, to also correct abuses against mortgages or other areas, which are practically not met, and to which accession, above all, is voluntary by banking entities. And I want to remember that there is what is called a "basic payment account" designed for people who have less resources, for people who earn social benefits and need a bank account to live. It is something that is the subject of numerous complaints in the Bank of Spain itself because the entities do not comply. But the most serious thing, in this case, of the arrangement of the institutions with regard to cash schedules, is that this openly contradicted the rules and competition laws, because there are bodies — in theory — that control competition in Galicia and the Spanish State and that did not act. They don't act as supervisors, just like they didn't do in 2008. This is as if by a bus -- let's put, for example, AP-53, not to talk so much about AP-9 -- there's a series of cars going in the opposite direction, two hundred kilometers an hour, there's the Civil Guard in the Silleda gas station and there's nothing going until one day there's an accident and there's social repercussions. And then they say, "Well, come on, let's start fines; let's start sending people in the right direction and at the right speed." Well, obviously, it's late. And, of course, what's worse is still Galician Union. Because we may think that the central government does not act in time, but that of the Galician Union is already directly fascinating; because exclusive skills in consumption do not exist, they are not used — we have the Galego Institute of virtually frozen consumption there — and from time to time give them a self-government round, but only to stage; and, above all, they practice innovation in the worst sense of the word. Because they pick up and say, "Come on!, how can we continue to earn an entity like Abanca, that we have already rescued it with nine billion euros and that we have already set up a chiringuit to manage the quota of European funds — since the opposition of the German Parliament knows nothing, but Escotet knows everything—?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh But they say, "Let's take another twist." And then they pick up and decide to take out a grant order to subsidise those cashiers who are closing down their own banking entities along the territory. We -- we've said it in this House and we've been discussing it with our beloved Valeriano Martínez -- we said it seemed like an obscenity, and, after what happened in the pandemic, even more. And we already said by that time that we could put on a name of the entity that would win. Guess we're not, but, of course, with the precedents of the People's Party's friendship and his preferences with that Venezuelan bank, because of course, it was quite easy to make that guessing policy. But the question is that it is absolutely obscene, and it was an effect called. It was an effect called, so after Castela-León and Catalonia, Galicia is the community that most entities have closed with the latest data from the Banco de España, losing more than one hundred eighty-nine offices, according to the most recent data we have. And, of course, this is the fish that bites the tail. Bank institutions move by greed, governments do not control, and they follow the wheel; and in addition, the benefits of Abanca are increasing. Because here we're not talking about the baker who has a spectacular price rise in light and flour and who has to raise the price of the bread bar. Here we're talking about Abanca getting a result of 323 million euros in 2021, doubled profits; BBVA, 4,653 tripled; and Santander, 8,124 million euros, the best result in his last decade, in an unprecedented context of economic crisis. And we still have to thank Mr. Escotet because he tells us that for every cashier who subsidizes Junta, he loses 2,000 euros. He must still be trying to be supplemented by 2,000 euros in the next budgetary exercise, and we thank him above all for dismantling jobs in this country and for continuing on in this drift of banknotes, of which it is also a fundamental part. Of course — we insist — what we are living in has multiple consequences. Only about legislation, we've been talking here, in this House, about the ERE of Abanca, the ERE of Santander, the ERE of CaixaBank and Bankia, over and over again. And the German Government, missing; they didn't go to the banking institutions to tell them they stopped doing that, they didn't even receive union representatives, or at least union representatives who are the most allergic to them, who are the majority union in this country — the IGC — which continues to give them allergy, because you don't have a democratic charism there, but of course, they called for meetings directly with the Farm Council to address these issues, and you ignored them. And we also live this in a context of trapping the lonely. Because it's obvious that closing offices is a problem, but we have to assume that it's not just a rural problem, that it's also a problem in cities -- because the roadmap is "zero entities," and that's a worsening of services, in addition to job losses -- and because, in addition, they're trapping the lonely, too, with solutions. For example, with the telebank. After telemedicine, there's also the telebank, like? But here is also a fundamental precaution of services, care and the sector. And you can't self-deception anyone in this House because we already know what happened to the teleassistation that was done, for example, from Galicia to the services of Naturgy, that they closed and relocated without the People's Party's Government blushing; or even with the Santander who was in the Coruña, with R, etc. And above all, with a covert precaution, with a sector that will be assuming responsibilities — even legal — of the bank agreement, having a lower agreement, which is call center, and with great precariousness. And, above all, we're seeing how this all happens in a context of increasing bank abuse and increasing financial exclusion. I also want here to draw attention to the fact that we are now talking a lot about the older people and the difficulties they have, but look! also with what is happening — and that they alert all third sector associations, and also a recent report by the Greek Network against poverty — to the financial exclusion that premeditally practises entities to expel those customers who are not profitable to them, because that is a serious social problem, not to mention the economic consequences of the productive tissue as well. In short, we think that, of course, it's not the thing to come here with consciousness-washing initiatives, simply because the issue is of political topicality and, above all, so that the People's Party can see that it can put a weapon up more. We think that serious measures must be taken and, of course, they are already the ones included in our amendment, which is the same as those presented to both groups. We ask that these grant orders be withdrawn for their so-called effect, that all possible competences of the Galego Consumption Institute be activated, that the Central Government be asked to effectively amend the law to ensure a number of minimum services and also that this Parliament be addressed to the Board, governments and banking entities for political pressure, to tell them that they also have bank accounts that can be closed and that they also have reasons to put pressure on these entities to stop doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u115	...these abusive practices. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law motion, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, it is true that there have been changes over the last few days. We'd probably all like it to be more, but they're relevant. We saw it in the Senate of the Consumer and User Protection Act against Vulnerability Situations, where an important agreement was reached with the intention of putting together common tasks to ensure that over the next three months there are measures aimed at personalized attention and without discrimination by the digital divide for the whole of citizenship. It also includes postal services, and a plan of measures incorporating, in the texts voted, issues such as betting on more support personnel, maintaining cash boxes, priority for vulnerable persons, the presence of older people, measures for rural areas, security in transactions for older people and simple technologies. It is that throughout these days, this week, we have also seen an agreement between the Spanish Association of the Bank, the Spanish Confederation of Savings Boxes, the National Union of Cooperatives, the Government and the Bank of Spain with concrete measures, as can be the expansion of cash schedules, which will be opened from nine to two hours - something that was very demanded by the major - ; aids that have to do with digitization and also with incorporation into the digital world; telephone attention, when it is not present, and preferably for those larger than so desired; more mechanisms to complement digital pathways; and also the Observatory for the application of these measures within six months. Let's see how this whole thing develops. There is a legislative task and there is also an agreement on a protocol to develop new financial practices. I think they're in the right direction, and I think we all have to be brave as well and that we have to put up the challenge of getting much more, if that doesn't get enough. But in Galicia with a very important rural population component, in Galicia with many municipalities and dozens of municipalities without any bank offices and in Galicia with a population older than in the state as a whole it is necessary to have more measures, more commitment and more progress towards financial exclusion. And that's the task of the Government of the People's Party: to meet the Greeks and the Greeks where the duties are not done. And they have to. And they have to do it because I hear the People's Parliamentary Group today and it doesn't bring any commitment, no measure, no decision, no project — not executive or legislative — of the German Autonomic Administration to tell the Greeks and Greeks that they're going to bet on a bank that reaches the whole territory and a bank that doesn't exclude, by digital competences or by connectivity or by the conditions of disability, the part of the population. Today the Government of Galicia comes again with empty hands, no commitments and no measures. You gave several million euros to a financial institution to put cash in, and that financial institution, and others, announced more silent measures than you did, without counting on you. You have learned from television and newspapers that this financial institution, as a result of this new trend of protocols and pressure that exists at the state level, undertakes to open the cashier's schedule during tomorrow's hours, and undertakes not to close a bank office again in a council in case that closure left the municipality with no attention. It's time for the People's Party to take action. It's time for them to commit. We know that you have a black sheet in your history because of the merger of the boxes. It's something Galicia can't forgive them, and it's something Galicia can't afford to forget, because there was a court sentence that told you textually: "Cajanova would never have been intervened if it hadn't been forced to merge with Galicia Box." [[Murmurs.]] It's just that this decision was not from the Banco de España or anyone but the president of the Union and the Government of Galicia. And that's why you don't want to open the Committee of Boxes, which has been closed for almost a decade, because you want to keep hiding the disgraces of the People's Party with the bank of this country. [[Applause]] And not only do they want to talk about the past, they don't want to talk about the future. They don't bring a single measure, and I want to ask them what they want us to expect from that non-law proposition that you don't commit to anything. I would like to ask the People's Party: will they ensure, with the Government of Galicia, that in this legislation they do not revert to financial inclusion in the municipalities of Galicia, that no more councils remain, along this legislation, without bank offices and that where banking offices have been closed and none are left to take the measures of pressure, persuasion and all the activity that they can do to reopen these banking offices? Because it's something important for financial inclusion but also a commitment to rural Galicia. Having an open bank office is having workers in the county...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u118	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u119	...and it's possible to connect. That's the Galicia we want. In order for Galicia to have more futures, it takes much more than the GNP you present. I ask them to support a non-law proposal that we present, which, without being putting anything out of the text, commits them to do something, instead of still being the government which in financial matters has turned the boxes into a bank, which has not stopped them in Galicia and which now does not take action by the people of our country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u120	Thank you. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, you have to recognize the great ability they have to water, the truth is, yes. Look if they laugh that at your fourth point — as you well specified when you were in the use of the word, and that I also tell Mr. Caballero, because I think you forget it — banking regulation is the responsibility of the Bank of Spain, Mr. Caballero. I don't think it's clear. I mean, it's the responsibility of the State Government. And they almost want to make the Greeks believe — with your amendment, Mrs. Presas, and with your literature, Mr. Caballero — that is for the German Government. Not at all, Your Honor! Mr. Knight, you have to do the duty of the central government! And we invite him to add, which seems to be a bit of a sloppy. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Caballero, when the problem of access to banking services was not yet patented in Galicia, the German Government, concerned, asked the State Government for state coordination with the urgent need for a complete and detailed study of the financial market. And in the face of that inaction of his government, the Greek Government has decided not to keep its arms crossed and give a solution to thousands of Greeks who lack access to these services. The demand you are asking for in your PNL is that it is already done, Mr. Knight! It's done now! Let me explain, because I don't think it's clear. It is an agreement of the Galician Union with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which has already begun to work at the end of the 2019 semester. He was criticized by the nationalists, but, look, he has the signature of mayors of the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block, the People's Party, of course, and even the independenceists, who share a single goal: to give a solution to the thousands of Greeks. It is a similar initiative to many others throughout the Spanish geography and carried out by different political-coloured administrations, because all they are looking for is to give a response to access to financial services lacking in action by the State Government, by administrations such as the Generalitat de Valencia or even the Tarragona Deputy — point, which at best can give you some instruction. What happened after all this is that the Galego Nationalist Block, seeing that mayors of their political colour also signed it, because... we're going to start a little political trifle! But, Mrs. Presas, you won't find us there. We're not going to accept your amendment, don't doubt it. Because what they didn't really know was that the mayors of the Bloc and the Socialist Party signed and adhered to that protocol with the simple aim of giving their neighbours a better banking and financial service. Because it's really important, and I think that's where we should all be together. Mr. Knight, you bring the debate to a non-law proposal that gives no solution to the problems of the Greeks. You speak at your own initiative, but the problem goes a lot further, we need qualified staff and you're not putting it on your own initiative! Clearly, what happened to him was that they realized — as he has already done — that the maximum responsible and the only competent is the central government. The problem was that I had to give the People's Party the reason, and of course, it seems they're not very willing. I understand, I understand you want to get in the car now. And welcome, I told you in my first speech, and I told you in Commission 3rd. Welcome back, because retreating is wise. Yesterday afternoon, you recorded a self-amendment — a copy and a copy of the amendment tabled in Commission 3a —. Something totally legitimate, of course, but it's an amendment to everything they thought. It's good to have them back, because banking rules belong to the Government of the State and it's up to you to act, Mr. Caballero. Welcome, because we've been demanding it from this parliamentary group for months — not weeks, as you said — and there's only one step left: voting in favour of our initiative. In his self-amendment, Mr. Knight, he has three points in which he acknowledges to sue the Government of Spain. But in the second part of your minimum requirement — I tell you it's minimal because the central government yesterday published that it will create an authority to protect the financial client... yes, yes, read, read, put it—... you first ask for a minimum requirement and we cover a lot more. As for the second and third point, I'm sorry to tell you that it's late, because if at this point, with the problem we have with the banking institutions, we have to make a report, we're going, we're going, we're going! Because you have to realize that the report has to be done, and we have to act. The German Government has already acted, but for months now — you seem to be going a little tow. And he had to act because the central government seems to have been a little sloppy. Now, of course, with pressure it looks like it's starting to work. We'll see what he does in the next few months. The autonomous government, I told you, acted, in the inaction of the central government, with the signing of a protocol with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Let's do something! Mr. Knight: measures, projects... I'll tell you not only that you're going to count on an automatic cashier in those municipalities where they don't have financial entities, but that you're going to have a chance to have physical staff presence, and of course a financial training offer. And I'm done now, President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, they're in time to assess the position in this group's non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, with unanimous support from this House in the implementation of a state plan against financial exclusion, with measures to facilitate the access of the population to financial services. Success, of course, will not be this parliamentary group but will be everyone's. I insist, it will be everybody to give people solutions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the only really important thing is to solve the problems of the Greeks claiming useful policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u123	...in search of solutions to people's general problems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u124	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in relation to mental health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u125	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in accordance with Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 25350 (11/PNP-002291).Replace the text of point 4 with the following:"4. Creation in Primary Care Health Centers of Psychologist Squares@s clinic@s, occupational therapists, speech therapists, social worker@s... that enables the creation of multidisciplinary teams and give full attention.Addendum amendment Add two new points with the following text: "6. To present in the Italian Parliament, in this session, a study on the epidemiological situation of mental health in Galicia, including the effects that the pandemic is having on mental health in the population, in order to establish the scope of the measures to be taken to act effectively.7. Increase the resources to cover the announced Mental Health Plan post-COVID 19, in a minimum amount of EUR 21 million in 2022."To present, within a month, a memory of the implementation of the Mental Health Plan post Covid 19: number of child-child care units in operation, number of incorporated professionals, where and with what type of work linkage, suicide prevention units...")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u126	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mental health in Galicia today is not a right. It should be, but it's not a right. In fact, there is no right to access a mental health care service within our health system. It's a reality. Any request or attempt to make an appointment takes, on average, over four months. And so we can't claim that this is an efficient system. The reality is that mental health care today is a privilege. Either of us, if we need to go to a psychologist, if a person we know needs to go to a psychologist -- to quote one of the specialties -- nobody would think we're talking about a psychologist in the public system. Everyone would assume that we're talking about a private professional, and that shows that this isn't a guarantee system in terms of this being a right. It should be, and it's recognized, but it doesn't work. Today we have that needle. The situation is worrisome. In recent times, we have met constantly new ones who worry about us and add a higher level of anxiety about the state of mental health, about the situation of anyone but also about the younger ones, among whom we know that the volume of attention is being much more alarming, much higher. And this is not that it is beginning to exist now but that, fortunately — and understood well — we pay more attention to it today, and thanks, on many occasions, to the visibility they make of the mental health problems known and recognized individuals and caregivers, who convey their suffering, their sufferings, the steps they have gone through suffering from mental health problems. It gives him a visibility that administrations constantly — and in many parts society too — have failed for a long time. That work that has failed to do politics — that we have failed to do in politics — is done today from many voices of people who contribute to giving greater normalcy in the system. But the problem is basically that we don't have the ability to deal with it yet enough. There's a model problem. Mental health today does not exist from the concept of administration — from Sergas, this government — to know where we want to go. There's no concept of what we want to do with patients and mental health users. No one's thinking about it. Patches are being set up, some solutions, a lot of ads, but no one thought about it and no one put into action in Sergas anything so you can think about where we're going or about what kind of assistance we provoke or want. No one knows what we need as a society, because it has always been a little sister and sometimes forgotten within the system — and particularly by this Government in the last decade, which has been completely forgotten and budgeted, of course, but also in terms of health care and model how we attended. In Galicia we have some of the worst data from all over the Spanish state in terms of psychopharmaceutical consumption. The ratios we know about suicide data are horrible in Galicia — on the per capita ratio. But we have been countless, countless years!, not one of the worst, but the worst — the worst with much!— autonomous community of Spain in proportion to professionals per inhabitant. Whether in psychiatrists, clinical psychology or specialist nurses — they choose the specialty or category — we are the worst autonomous community in Spain. And so it's impossible to go anywhere. Last year, after many attempts in this Parliament to start some government commitment, this group presented a proposal to this Parliament which was approved in part by all the groups, which at the time we thank and consider a good step forward. What's the reality? That not even what is approved here is actually being fulfilled. The call for 120 squares was approved in 2021 for the entire volume of the mental health system — approved in March. The PP announced, as always, that "it is already being done" — a tremendously repeated sentence. Did he? No, no, no, no. Some people were summoned, but not all those approved, as if one could approve things, but then — at last — to make sure it's done but not done at all. It is true that the creation and implementation of the Psychoxeriatrics Unit in Ourense or the Hospitalization Unit in Childcare in Vigo has been approved. Announced? Yes. Are they in operation? It's not that easy anymore. For now there are more announcements and press notes than compliments — a standard thing in this government. The Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo has experienced some public episodes, of public exposure in the media, very sad. And the users and professionals who live, work or are cared for there need the system to clarify and be able to respond to demands made through the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture — which is what it is called. And, as we approved at that time, that center would have to be attended to by the Council of Galicia for the necessary improvements and that there were no further reports as devastating as those that existed. Were there any such improvements? Was there any investment plan in Conxo? Was there a greater, notorious, professional endowment to make volumes and work skills different? We'd really like to know if something was done. It was approved at that time that in order to be able to manage better we could merge services, because mental health services today are not, like any other health service, fully integrated into Sergas. It's not like that. Today there are mental health services that have to sustain some councils: it passes in the Coruña and passes in many places where some services or problems of addictive behaviors, for example - which are also, in large part, a health problem and a mental health problem - are cared for from the councils; they are putting money on the municipalities, they are paying health services. Why? Because Sergas doesn't care. He doesn't care. He thinks it must be of little relevance. And we approved in this Parliament that Sergas would take over all those systems at once. Did he? Don't! There is therefore an agreement here in this Parliament — and we all voted in favour — that the Government is not fulfilling. The members of the Government voted in favour, and it is not being fulfilled, and they stated that it would be carried out — like the Health Counsellor — and it is not being met. What is the value of the agreements in this Parliament? Actually, we know what PP deals are worth. But, in fact, what we respect in this Parliament, we ask ourselves: why should we bring proposals? Why should we think about it, bring contributions, build agreements, negotiate and reach points in common, if the PP is going to do what it wants? And this is not worthy of this country and, in particular — if I may — in this kind of service. What's left for us, actually, and why do we bring a new non-law proposal today? Because we're asking you first to get the deal done. It seems revolutionary, Marxist-Leninist... Bakunin's coming through the door... let's get the alert! But, in addition, we ask for more things because we think we have to go much further, but it basically has to do with the model. What do we want to do in mental health in Galicia? We have to think if we want to focus on internal services or disintegrate and we need to know if we want to increase the ability of the Conxo centre to get all people in there while they're hospitalized or if we want to disintegrate. We are in favour of atomizing the system to bring people to their territory. We are in favour of distinguishing and, therefore, we propose that it is not worth a more unit of child-juvenile hospitalization in the south, but that we should have one per health area. We're talking about the fact that younger people, when they're hospitalized, don't live with people who are forty or fifty years older than them and who have other kinds of disorders, another kind of difficulties, and who can be treated with the greatest possible specificity. This is not happening in Galicia today, because no one in the Government knows where he wants to go. All they're looking for is some headlines. We're talking about defending models that fully pharmacologize, whether we're going to give pills and solve everything that way, or whether we want models that, with a higher volume of staff resources and a higher volume of specialized professionals, allow us to know which are the best treatments. We're talking about a higher level of therapy and a lower level of pharmacology, if possible, which is. We are talking about whether we connect the primary care system with mental health or whether we keep mental health closed in hospitals — when in hospitals — that are often separated — as in other centers — as if they were something external to the health system. We're talking about all that, and for that we have to have a model, which the People's Party doesn't have, because it must continue to consider that mental health is a privilege. If they can, they pay — who they can — and those who don't, who solve, that we care little, because that's not the model we're defending. So, we usually ask where we're going. But in addition, we have brought several proposals, which are also those in the proposal you know: greater infrastructure supply, compliance with these agreements and the increase in the volume of squares to put us, at least, in the middle of the autonomous communities of Spain. Finally, what we have raised through this initiative is a question of social demand: we need mental health services that can meet people's needs and, for that, we need professionals, because, without professionals, there is no attention. Mental health in Galicia today is not a right, it's a privilege. We defend it to be a right and we want it to be met, and for that we bring proposals like this, and we will continue to bring, to see if we are able to negotiate, wake up and then comply, because, until now, nothing else has been done. Thank you very much, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u128	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The mental health situation in Galicia can qualify it, without any kind of alarmism, of extreme gravity. The BNG has for years denounced the state of mental health, which is one of the great damages of the cuts of the People's Party; of the 12-year-old victims of cuts in public health in Galicia. There are many experts who are already warning that it is the great pandemic after the 19th century. It's a situation that was very serious before the pandemic, but that the pandemic did only increase in a really worrying way. And the People's Party in Galicia didn't act, didn't meet the needs, didn't plan and didn't add budget, and it seems incomprehensible to us, because there's a very high number of people with attention needs and delays are really scandalous. The pandemic is worsening -- as I said -- this situation: it has brought social isolation, confinement, emotional impairment, uncertainty, anxiety, depression, fear of the future -- that is, we can put here a whole bunch of issues that have sunk into the situation of many people and that have incorporated many people into these occupational health problems because of economic, labor problems and a situation of collapsed primary care, because hospitals are on flooded waiting lists, and access to health circuits has become even more complicated for mental disorders. People who need this attention get late and bad, they grow these cases of depression and anxiety, they decompensate people with serious disorders and increase disorders, such as food behaviour and suicide attempts, being really worrying about the increase in suicides and suicide attempts among new people. From the health field, they are alarming about this increase in suicide attempts, and Galicia is -- it's no novelty -- within the Spanish state, where there is a greater prevalence of this pathology. On the average of the Spanish state is 7.79% and in Galicia we are 13% per 11,000 inhabitants. In view of this situation, what it requires is action, what it requires are measures and what it requires is a proactive position on the part of a government that intends to deal with and care about the health situation of its population, in a global framework where there is this increase in the prevalence of mental health problems and, as he said, in what Galicia, together with Asturias, leads the State's statistics. In view of this, in fact, we do nothing but insist on the need to take action. Today this initiative brought by the Socialist Party again puts emphasis on such matters as those agreed here, and it does not meet systematically, and the People's Party, sometimes to put pressure on it, seems to assume that action must be taken, but more towards the gallery, towards the holder, which is not soon when these measures are implemented. [[Applause]] At the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party, the BNG has tabled amendments on issues that we believe are also necessary and that we believe they are needed at this time. The first is that a study is presented in this Parliament on the epidemiological situation of mental health in Galicia. As I had said before, the situation was serious prior to the pandemic, but the pandemic was to jump through the air the previous situation. That is why we believe that we need to have information and to know the dimension of the problem in order to establish the scope of measures to act efficiently. If you don't know the dimension of the problem, it's very difficult to measure. We've been suing this issue, and the People's Party Board won't do it, which means he doesn't want to have the data so he won't have the mirror and have to deal with the problem. We believe that is necessary, and that is why we tabled this amendment. We also present in the amendment the request to present a memory of the implementation of the mental health plan of Galicia poscovid-19 2020-2024, with the number of childcare units, their functioning, the number of professionals incorporated, where, what type of contracts, the suicide prevention units... It's been two years since the People's Party published Galicia's mental health plan poscovid-19 2020-2024, and there's no memory of what level of compliance is having this plan, how it's acting, what's really going on and what's going on. It seems to us that we need this Parliament to really know if this plan is being implemented, if measures are being put in place, where and how, because the headlines are very well, they look very nice, but the reality is better something else. And BNG wants to know what that situation is. We also present an amendment asking for the creation in the primary health care center of clinicians' and psychologists' squares, occupational therapists', speech therapists', social workers' -- i.e. multidisciplinary teams that allow the work of mental health care in primary care and health centers. After a lot of pressure from the Board, in the end, they announced this plan and the creation of clinical psychology squares, of link with primary care; one per health area, and they didn't even comply with it, not even all areas have a liaison person. We think it's totally insufficient. [[Applause]] It's more than proven in many studies that thirty percent, more or less, of primary-care pathologies have to do with mental health. Therefore, a person who links mental health to hospital life is manifestly insufficient. It's manifestly insufficient! Because delays in continuity in attention are scandalous. There can be no mental health care when the first hospital consultations take months and then continuity consultations have a chance of months as well. That's not mental health care! That's letting people get away! [[Applause]] There is, therefore, in primary care the need to have resources. It is possible, it is necessary, and that is why we tabled this amendment, because we find it insufficient to request it. Obviously, it's better than nothing, but we think you can go too far and you should go, because the magnitude of the problem is really very important. And we're asking for an increase in the budget. We asked for an increase in the budget! Because it's very good to say that mental health needs to be taken care of, but soon no resources are placed on the table. They announce a 2020-2024 plan with 83 million euros to four years, but then they don't put it in the budget. In the two budgets, which announced the plan, there are only three or four million a year. That's impossible! It would take us 80 years to complete that budget. And without resources it is not possible to meet, without resources they are no more professional, without resources there are no more devices and without resources it is not possible to care for the population. We've been demanding that budget increase for years, and we've been continually facing the People's Party wall, which systematically votes against. We call for budgets to meet the needs of people and not budgets to meet the demands of the families of the People's Party, or to enrich the friends and families of the People's Party, which is what you allocate resources for; something that we already knew and that we have already denounced, but it is now self-denunciation among you. [[Applause]] They try to cover up the issue that the problem is not that you know where you want to allocate the resources, but that the problem is that you know, not that you do. Not that they do! [[Applause]] That's the problem of the People's Party! And we demand an increase in budget resources to improve public services, to improve public health, to improve mental health care, which is where they have to go the money that we pay for citizenship, the money that pays the Greeks and the Greeks, and not to give contracts to finger or to favor the business — ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — which is their priority. And we demand budget, indeed, to eliminate the difficulty of access to mental health. The latest data published by the Galician Union itself, by Sergas, in June 2021 -- for those who had to be published in December still haven't published them -- said there were 720 people waiting for a first psychiatry consultation. 720 people waiting for a first psychiatry consultation! You'll tell me how you can handle the population with this waiting list! Just like chronic staff deficits. We need resources for these chronic deficits, because we're in line not only for the state but for the European Union. And the current staff picture means 68% of what would be needed in Psychiatry, 49% of what would be needed in Nursing, 50% of what would be needed in Psychology... and we could go on like this... Obviously, without budgeting, without professionals, without resources and, above all, without taking seriously the very serious problem that thousands of Greeks and Greeks have is not possible to address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u131	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Today we are going to discuss a health issue again, which, like any health issue, is a priority, and we must deal with it with respect, seriousness and truths. Health is the most precious asset we have. When any of us or our surroundings face a health problem, everything else comes to a second term. Moreover, today we are debating mental health, a question that needs visibility and avoids that stigma that always accompanies this kind of suffering. It's essential that we talk about mental illness like any other pathology. It's in our hands, in the hands of governments and citizenship, changing the way we see it, offering support, support and support to anyone who goes through this situation. It's too serious a subject to do stories trying to politicize or argue. Going through depression is always a very complex existential moment, so a lot of resources, a lot of help and a lot of support are needed. And the Galician Board and the Health Council have always been there, taking care of the health of the Greeks, and that's why in the previous legislation he started working on the development of a new mental health plan. That's where we're going, Mr. Torrado. There's a mental health plan and it's being fulfilled, and it's always curious how to build stories that the Socialist Party has. Just as in the pandemic we've seen that for the Government of Sánchez the bad news, like the restrictions, were things of the autonomous communities and the good ones, such as vaccination, were from the central government, also now in mental health it seems that the good news comes from the hands of the German Socialist Party. Mr. Torrado, you say in your explanatory statement that, after several attempts over the past few years to try to guide the efforts of the Government of Galicia in mental health, in March 2021 if you come to an agreement. You forget an important step by means of this: in 2020 the Galician Union approved a mental health plan with EUR 83 million, with a commitment to hire 241 professionals. This is the fundamental gesture, not the agreement, and I say more to you: the first agreement on mental health in this legislation was precisely an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block in the Health Commission in October 2020, in which I asked the Board to appear to explain this plan. And so it was. In December 2020 the Director General for Health Care of Sergas appeared and took into account in detail the measures of the Mental Health Plan of Galicia post-covid 2020-2024; a plan which was, of course, already published on the Internet with full transparency. And I think both you, Mr. Torrado, and Mrs. Prado were present in this 5th Commission. Therefore, that agreement which Mr. Torrado refers to at his initiative today came three months late from this meeting and nine months later from the approval by the Board of Trustees of the said plan. And the agreement, Mr. Torrado, which you indicate at your initiative, was not in connection with a proposal not of the Socialist Group's law, but of a motion. And the nuance is important. It's important for a fundamental reason! Because the motions are preceded by an interpellation, and it was in that interpellation of the previous plenary when the councillor made that commitment to the creation of 120 new squares that you then gathered in the text of the motion. That's right! So that commitment doesn't come out of a socialist initiative. This commitment is here: the 120 new professionals that are considered, of those 241 who spoke earlier in the Health Plan. [[Mr. Amigo Díaz shows a document to the members of the House.]] Luckily, that's right, because if the initiative was socialist, it was probably more childish. In 2021 we saw that the Government of Spain of Mr Sánchez presented a mental health action plan with 100 million euros throughout Spain. Let's remember that the German plan covers only 83 million for Galicia. I don't know what the BNG lady thinks of this budget; on the other hand, it is necessary for Pedro Sánchez to arrive at Moncloa. As I said, those 83 million euros that Galicia contemplates are millions running. We can see it in the budgets with 120 squares equipped between 2020 and 2021: 32 Psychiatry, 31 Clinical Psychology, 32 Mental Health Nursing Specialist, 11 Nursing Assistant, 12 Social Work and 2 Occupational Therapy. They're in the budgets for those who want to see them, but besides, they're not only gifted, but they're covered with the highest speed possible. In July 2021, a report was issued to the Board of Trustees informing that 95 of these squares had already been covered; and last week, in an act in Ourense, the President of the Board confirmed that there were already 100 professionals hired. There's only a few nursing facilities that specialize in mental health because of the shortage of professionals with this specialty, which is still recent, but which will be covered as new promotions are incorporated. By the way, I would like to point out that Galicia is one of the pioneer communities in creating this specialty and, thanks to that, 60 squares have been convened in the 2017 and 2018 OPs, which are already resolved. With which, Galicia already has 60 professionals in the Nursing mental health specialist with ownership squares, which very few communities can say. So the first thing Mr. Torrado asks us in his initiative — in particular, to verify the fulfilment of the establishment of squares announced by the councilman — is absolutely unnecessary in our judgment. In addition, I invite you to consult the many informations that, over the course of these months, have taken note of the creation of these squares and in which the new units and programs that make up the plan were reported: adult units in Orders, in Tui, in Oleiros; the child's clinic in Vigo, of Vigo's Children's Day Hospital, Santiago's Children's Day Hospital... And it is, precisely, surprising that one of the points that includes the Socialist Party of Galicia on this initiative is to effectively develop this Welsh Plan against Suicide. Mr. Torrado, to effectively develop a plan the first thing to do is to have a plan, and the Council of Galicia has it; it cannot say the same to the Government of Spain. In January of this year — specifically, January 31st — we read in the press: "Suicide. Health discards and sees it unnecessary to create a specific plan to reduce suicide" from January 31, 2022. But, within the things that the Socialist Party has used to us, we cannot understand the criterion; although in February 2020 we read: "The Ministry bets for a specific suicide plan," you will explain to me how that goes. With this background, Mr Torrado, we doubt whether it is the Socialist Party which should guide the action of no administration in the face of such a serious problem. But, besides, it turns out almost a joke you brought in February 2022 this point of initiative, when in 2021 Galicia went from having a suicide prevention unit with six units. You probably want — if we vote for this point today — to appear next year — as you have done today — saying that the new suicide prevention units are due to a PNL from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. As for the rest of the points, the 3 and 4, they were already in the original motion from which this deal comes to which you refer, and we're not sharing it before or we're going to share it now. In point 2, you know perfectly well that the Mental Health Plan includes day hospitalisation units in each health area, such as those already operating in Vigo, Santiago or Ourense, or as the president has committed this month, that will enter into operation this year in Lugo or Coruña. With regard to acute hospitalization, the councillor has already answered in this plenary to the BNG, who asked just a week in which the project was being bided, about a second mental-health child-juvenil hospitalization unit in Galicia, which will be located at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. This architectural project has been adjudicated since the end of November last year, with which these dates will surely finish the delivery deadlines and probably soon the work will be filed. Therefore, Mr. Torrado, you come here to ask for good things that we have already voted against before, good things that are public and notorious that are already in progress or that are already very advanced. And I say more to you, Parliament has much simpler instruments to have information on the fulfilment of an agreement. You might ask. I will ask myself tomorrow in this plenary about the future of this plan. I invite you, of course, to pay attention to the answer the counselor will give you tomorrow. But you don't ask. Since that March 2021 interrogation, when the councillor answered you with all the creation data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u133	...of new squares — already finished — that you then placed in the motion, did not ask a single question again. You're very critical of the initiatives you call the Government's "botafumeiro", because you should start by not presenting the opposition's "botafumeiro" initiatives, trying to hang up medals that don't match them. The medals, in any case, correspond to those 100 professionals hired by the Board who are giving more and better mental health services to the Greek citizenship and who will continue to grow to 2024 thanks to the Plan of the Union, not thanks to the Socialist Party's initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u135	I just wanted to say that, today, Galicia has a mental health plan that is underway and that is a reality; a plan that is perfectly adapted to the needs that Greek society needs. And there is no doubt that the Health Council will be alert for any changes that may be possible and can be made. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u136	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u137	Thank you, President. By going around, I wanted to thank the contribution of the BNG, which raises some very interesting questions. In order not to leave it behind - if not the president, in addition, we'll remember - I'll go first for the amendment. The part of the amendment to be considered as an addendum, we have no problem incorporating it. It's very hard to ask for a report, but we're in favour. We have limited expectations that it will be approved and, if approved, more limited even if it is done. But we think it's very close. BNG proposes to amend point 4, and we don't share exactly that point of view. It is not that we do not share — that we do — the need to incorporate professionals from the mental health issue into the primary system. What we stand for is to do it not as a part of the mental health service — which is now located in hospitals or in hospital settings — but is the same service as having the connection and the primary-hospital direct bridge, let's not — let's say — divide two parallel services. In any case, these are very nuanced issues, but we believe that this is the most efficient model — even though we always share the need for BNG to incorporate more professionally. We're saved not to accept that amendment to point 4 and if we incorporate the rest of the add-on amendment as add-on, of course, but we appreciate the contributions. On Mrs. Friend's contributions, on behalf of the People's Party, I, in truth, did not expect much of the statements on this line. I am going to go on the question of mental health now, but I have a lot to do with the work we do in this Parliament. I don't think it's welcome to try to devalue or disregard Parliament in this way. You come here to make a GNP and you think that's why things are done. Man, I have the feeling that Parliament does things. As Mariano Rajoy said, "People who do things." Don't laugh at Rajoy, don't laugh at Rajoy, he's not the thing to be laughing at Rajoy! [[Laughter]] Parliament does things and it's not much that it has agreements sometimes, I say. If you want to pass on to me as a Member, you don't care what Members of Parliament do that the Government will do later, I can't buy it from you. This is certainly the case at times, but we cannot accept a Member saying, "You come here to assume a parliamentary agreement." We should all assume. It's a common agreement of all! Because I wonder, how is this?, do you people vote in favour of things knowing they're useless? It's a little surprising, isn't it? Do you support things that are not worth it? - and I don't mean Pablo Casado. Because you, if you come here and you defend an initiative or we come to some agreement as we have arrived, I suppose you can't come back and say, "Come here and assume an initiative that we agree on." [[Laughter]] We have made an agreement to this Parliament on something that was not being done at that time! Among other things — to go to the numbers that show that we defend that it is true that it has not been fulfilled — we approved 120 squares in 2021. The actual information of the Galician Union states that 100 squares were convened between 2020 and 2021, and 100 squares in two years are not only 120 squares in one Therefore, as I said at first, it was fulfilled in part but not at all. And we demand that it be fulfilled. It's not so hard for us to understand that you can recognize that a part has been fulfilled but not at all. Another thing is to tell me you approved something you knew you weren't going to do, but that's enough for you, it's not our way of doing politics, it's not ours. So you can't argue with me — and I intend to reduce it to the squares because I don't have more time and it's the best example — that it's not worth anything we do here. Of course it's worth it! Of course it's worth it! And if not, you explain what Parliament is not good for, but I have a lot of respect for the institution and the work we have done for all Members and Members, which I sometimes agree with and sometimes do not. But in any case, what we stand for is that there's a plan -- I said it -- yes, there's a plan, but we don't have a model. Where are we going? Because that plan gives no strategic answer as to whether we want to decentralize services or concentrate. It gives no answer about the kind of work we want to do. It is not a question of whether we want to integrate the mental health service into the system — which is the natural and what they are doing in all developed countries in the world — or whether we want to separate it — so the need to integrate services, which today even give some councils, into Sergas. There is no progress made about the Conxo center, as you said, there are advances made by professionals because of their ability, but not progress in real resources. And moving forward in resources to the Conxo center isn't changing windows or putting better locks. No, that's not it. And this is what we defend. There's no model to answer. You were assuming in a time to close up psychiatric centers in Galicia and we think that's not a good model if you don't know where you're going. So we have to know or be able to know where we're going. That's not what the plan says! Galicia's Mental Health Plan generates lots of headlines. It still doesn't give an idea of where we're going, because today -- and I come back to the beginning and finish with this -- mental health care in Galicia is not a real right. It's not because a person cannot be cared for who needs mental health in Galicia by Sergas in minimum conditions to be efficient. And so, as long as that doesn't fit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u138	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u139	...you have to assume justice. And we defend measures to achieve it. They don't seem like you, and yet they don't. Then we're going wrong, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u140	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the evaluation report of the RehaVita Plan, the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, renting and improving access to housing 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u141	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u142	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. For over a year now, we have completed the previous housing plan, 2015-2020, and since the BNG, we have been presenting a number of initiatives in which we ask the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council to submit an assessment report on the data and results of that plan. Because the exercise of power, gentlemen of the People's Party, is not only promising, it is also paying attention to the results and bringing here the final results of the plans they formulate. At the beginning of 2021 it was approved in this House that this report was delivered by the Union, even with the support of the previous People's Party amendment — yes — that the delivery should be postponed at the end of 2021. But we're in 2022 and that plan didn't come. Does someone in this House think it reasonable that the Housing Council will take fourteen months, since the previous housing plan has expired, without delivering an assessment report in which it only has to compile the execution data and the results of the programs that have the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo? What's the matter with that Housing Council? Have you lost your data on a hard drive or are you thinking that we're going to forget about complaining and accounting in this House? [[Applause]] I believe that, in fact, what happens to the People's Party is that they have too normalized that they avoid rendering accounts and putting their shame under the carpet, either in the housing policy of the Galician Union or in the sad spectacle that they are giving these days. The basic problem of the People's Party is that they have too normalized the lie. [[Applause]] And political lie is the worst of lies, because it is the lie of power directed at the citizens who represent it. [[Applause]] But the fact is that the People's Party has so internalized the lie that they already have a clear method which, in the case of the Union's housing policy, is very obvious. The first step is to launch a general idea that collects and connects with a majority social will even though you really don't believe it. In this case, it would be something like this: Galician Union is committed to housing policy and that is why we present this fantastic housing plan. Then comes the next step, which is to support that false idea. And here comes institutional propaganda. Every equal time the Council announces the activation of different programs which, as we shall see later, will then not be fulfilled, because most of them have no funds and others directly or come to work. One of the main posts on this propaganda is budgets. Then the Union takes advantage to announce something that sounds like big numbers, but the reality is that later they don't run. Because if we go to the last audit exercise, two out of three euros of housing access programs were not executed and one out of three euros of rehabilitation programs were not executed. So there's no compliance with programs or budget compliance. The Housing Council looks more like a sort of portable photocall of the advisor's ads but then, when you look behind the canvas, there's absolutely nothing. And when you see that gap in the housing policies of the Union, it's understandable that it's difficult for the Union to keep its own lie only with propaganda. So here comes the third element of the formula, which is that there has to be a certain organization outside of San Caetano that supports the lie. In the case of housing, you have great support, in much of the media, in particular in the manipulation you exercise in the public media, and from there you have two fundamental tasks. The first is that we do not verify what the real data of compliance with the measures are. We must advertise official propaganda but never, never, ever, ever review the results data. And the second element that they do is to create a framework of debate that is conducive to the Government. It's quite striking in this country that the cancellations for rent default multiply by more than ten the number of occupations but that the first ones never occupy worn. So we never talk about the responsibilities that Junta has in terms of access to housing. And I'm sure that if the Government of the Union sees itself subject to control of the really informed public opinion, you wouldn't last half a year. You know that, and that's why you're obstructing this House's control work. And here comes the fourth step of the purified method of the lie of the People's Party: not reporting to this House and blocking the opposition control work. That's why we came here today to demand that they deliver once and for all the housing plan assessment document — which had to be done a year ago — with all the detailed information on which each program was executed. And we also want them to realize the lack of compliance with the goals you announced. But we also want to take advantage of this intervention to dismantle the popular party's housing propaganda. Because it's true that we don't have all the data we should have, but from the compilation of various sources we can make a place for the result of that 2015-2020 Housing Plan and go ahead with some of the truths you want to hide. You promised and announced that with this plan it would be a priority for public housing promotion. But the reality is, if we go to the IGE data, only 400 protected dwellings were started between 2015 and 2020 in Galicia. Do you know how many homes began, for example, in 2006? 4,200 started. I mean, you guys in five years did a tenth of what was done in a year before I got Feijó to the board. For years I've even been a real wilderness of protected housing. We're four, five years old, or even two protected homes started that year. They therefore promised public housing and paralysed public housing. [[Applause]] And you also promised and announced with that plan that it was a priority to increase the number of shelters protected in rent schemes — because there is a very large shortage. But if we go to the data of the Ministry of Development, extracted from the Social Housing Bulletin, between 2014 and 2018, in Galicia there was—attention—a public housing scheme for rent! In a five-year period, a new public housing rental! Ladies and gentlemen, the people's housing policy is a lie and a great scam. [[Applause]] You also promised and announced that with this plan it would be a priority to have soil available for the construction of public housing. According to data from the follow-up report of the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2018-2020, in 2018 the acquired soil surface was zero square meters, and in 2019 the acquired soil surface was zero square meters. Ladies and gentlemen, the housing policies of the Union are the most absolute inaction, the paralyzing of the acquisition and preparation of public soil and the paralyzing of the construction of protected housing. And here, above all, I wanted to stop at a key point, which is precisely the relationship between these two aspects: public only and protected housing. Because the People's Party's 2015-2020 Housing Plan said something very interesting. I will read to them: "It is essential to plan alone and promote housing for public promotion so that public authorities have the capacity" — they pay attention — "to act as housing price regulators in times of imbalance that leave important sectors of the population unprotected". Draw conclusions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. If you haven't acquired solo and if you haven't made shelter protected, according to your own plan, you are responsible for inaction of the current price rise and to leave the people of this country unprotected at the abusive prices of the housing. The holder who would really deserve to be: The failure of the Board to comply with its housing plan favours the unfair rise in housing prices. [[Applause]] So it's not just a problem that they don't make shelter protected, but that it also has deeper and more structural consequences. And we've been warning them that a large public housing bag is a mechanism for regulating the prices of free housing. And that's what you say in the literature of your own plan, but, of course, here we return to the initial premise, and that this plan was a great lie of the People's Party, in which you announce what people expect from their housing plans but then they do the opposite. And the same thing is found in other sections of the program, such as empty housing or rehabilitation. It's all a big lie! And the last of all -- and the one that puts the branch into this plan -- is that you committed to bringing a report on the results of the plan last year and you didn't. You lie to the Greeks and the Greeks and lies also to this House that represents them! You want to deny us the ability to control, but we bring them contrasted data. I wish we had all of you locked up, but just seeing this -- at the tip of the iceberg -- it's better to understand why they're hiding them. And I want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that, when you lie with plans, when you lie with budgets — that are never met — they don't despise the truth, they despise who they rule and despise the problems of the people of this country in order to access housing. What we ask of you with this initiative is very clear. First, let them immediately deliver the information that they should and, second, give an explanation of the tremendous gap that exists between the marked targets and the achieved results. Because reporting is not only providing information — which, by the way, should already be public — it is also making a contrast between the promised and the accomplished and that you assume your responsibility. We do not expect — let us hope — more than your favourable vote, that of all the groups, including the People's Party, because I am sure that this initiative should also serve to get the Council to move forward and to present this report immediately from the Government. Because rendering accounts of citizenship and of the House that represents it is not an option for a government, it is an obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Freire Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to say that at no time does the Council of Galicia, Mrs Fernández, refuse to provide information on the RehaVita balance sheet. This is not true, Mrs. Fernández. You know this isn't true, but you keep insisting, because if you don't, the speech comes down. The German Government, the Government of the People's Party, has been working on housing policies for many years with a marked social character to facilitate access to the homes of the Greeks and the Greeks. There are two plans on the table, the RehaVita Plan and the social pact for housing, designed with all the agents, learning, as otherwise, from the previous plan and evaluating it, ladies and gentlemen, with a continuous improvement approach. I'm going to refer to the RehaVita Plan, the object of the initiative. The Greek rehabilitation plan, rent and improvement of access to housing 2015-2020, known as Plan RehaVita, was the first housing plan designed by a government of the German People's Party, and was also a government of the People's Party. It is a structured plan around four action axes: access to housing, rehabilitation of housing and urban renewal, prevention of residential exclusion and other housing measures. They are action axes that included, each of them, various programmes covering from rural to historical helmets — not forgetting the rest of the territory and a wide range of lines of action. The programs range from public housing promotion to housing rental programs, through housing rehabilitation, integral rehabilitation areas, Rexurbe areas, to public housing promotion housing. They're four axes of action and eleven programs with different lines of action adapted to the peculiarities of our community. It is an ambitious plan which provides for both direct actions by the Institute and assistance to individuals and communities of owners, a plan that emphasizes the design of housing policy based on the real needs of protected housing demand and the rehabilitation of the built heritage, and which too — very important — I was able to respond to the situation of people who, as a result of the economic crisis, were immersed in situations of mortgage executions and evictions. And I saw the programmes such as reallocation of those affected by mortgage executions, support for situations of residential emergency or repair of rural infra-vivals. An important effort has been made to actively support housing policies directed at people who need it most, with the social rent bonus to alleviate the effects of income-free deficits — which also benefited those young minors protected by the Galician Council once they reached their age and to facilitate their access to housing — or with agreements with banking entities, with Fegamp and with collaboration agreements with Sareb, who were also able to respond to complicated situations. And even in recent months, we have seen how thanks to an IGVS-Sareb agreement has succeeded in solving the problem of Burela's dwellings facing the state government's passivity. In short, it was a plan that I was able to respond to the different housing needs of the Welsh people and the Welsh people by redoubled efforts, increasing budget splits, activating new programs and measures to meet more situations and respond to a greater number of people and families, and thinking in the first term in people. As the plan name indicates, it understood the period from 2015 to 2020, both years included. But by the end of 2020 and the adoption of the new social pact for housing doesn't mean that the RehaVita Plan was already finished in 2021. This has already been explained in Parliament's 2nd Committee at its meeting on 3 March 2021 in the debate of the Non-Law 9969 motion, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It was then explained that the reality was that many of the performances and aids included in the RehaVita Plan were multi-yearly and so in the year 2021 they would still be running. It was also explained that some of the aid would continue to be in force several years after the end of 2020, such as the actions in integral rehabilitation areas, since the funds allocated to the municipalities for ARI by 2020 would be implemented by the end of 2025. And it has also been explained that the year 2020 was a complicated year in which deadlines had to be extended due to the slowdown in activity. In short, when this Socialist Parliamentary Group PNC was presented in March 2021, it was not feasible to carry out a global balance of the RehaVita Plan, since it would not give a real picture of the objectives achieved. We also said then that it didn't seem appropriate to wait five years to know the final figures of the plan, so it would be possible to make an assessment report at the end of 2021 that would already include information on the performances and aids with annualities in 2021 and in which only the data corresponding to those that extend beyond the end of 2021 would be pending. I have explained and understood this to what I just referred to, a transaction was reached in the debate of this Commission 2 which was adopted unanimously by the various groups and which is the text of the amendment to the substitution of the People's Parliamentary Group to the BNG GNP that we are discussing today. If a few months ago a unanimous agreement was reached with everyone's approach, I think we could also reach that agreement today. Therefore, the undertaking to present this report to the Galician Parliament was the submission of this report at the end of 2021, Mrs Fernández. The Galician Nationalist Block Group has already been replied in writing that it was working on this report, and yet it has presented several initiatives registered in January — as we are debating today — with those who modify and now vary the compromise reached in the transactional to which I am referring. Mrs Fernández, next Thursday, 24 February, the Director General of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo will give the appropriate explanations in Parliament's Commission 2nd on the reasons why the report could not be forwarded before and for which it will be sent in the coming days. At no time, Mrs Fernández, the Galician Council refused to provide information on the RehaVita balance sheet. The reasons were explained why it was necessary to wait until the end of 2021 to issue that report and why only pending actions on ARI would be left. And in that we have all the groups left. Mrs. Fernández, we're in February, and I sincerely have to tell you that it seems that little respect shows you for the work of others. It's easy to understand that an evaluation report is not done in two days, and it's easy to understand that people have personal circumstances and that IGVS is now, too, and for months now, overwhelmed by the call for help that they have to get out — there are 31 programs that will manage the IGVS this year 2022—. I can only understand this posture when it has never been handled and when you don't know how much work the agent is supposed to handle. But, of course, it still seems worse when you come here questioning the work and effort that is being done since the Galician Union, governed by the People's Party, and the IGVS. Of course you're on balance, gentlemen! They are accountable, but with clear accounts, with rigor and seriousness, without twisting and false. They always talk about poor execution, and that's not true. And they do so without any justification. The execution data is published in the annual IGVS accounts. And I want to refer to the year 2021, because I don't have time to refer to everyone. In 2021, the actual execution on the executable funds of your budget is 78.75%. If only the funds of the Autonomous Community are considered, the execution is 83.63%. In the 2018-2021 housing plan the execution was 106.5 million, 100 percent committed. It is true that this execution that I referred to in the year 2021 might be superior if it wasn't for the impossibility of executing about six million euros destined for San Paio de Navia. The so-called acquisition of this solo in San Paio de Navia could not be carried out as a result of the delays generated by the Town Hall. These are the data, and this is the reality. Plan RehaVita is an ambitious plan, with multiple programs. And today we have the social pact for housing. Of course there are difficulties. Of course, it's not easy. It's not easy, in addition, to achieve targets in some programs if it depends on the collaboration of other administrations. It is not easy to run an empty housing mobilization program when it depends on the necessary collaboration of the municipalities, when, above all, the major municipalities governed by the PSOE, BNG or The Tides refuse to join the program — and hence their reformulation, evaluation, balance and decision-making, ladies and gentlemen, in the new social housing pact becomes directly managed by the IGVS. It is not easy to carry out public housing construction or housing rehabilitation when municipalities like Vigo take two years to approve a partial plan or continue without replying to the licence application for two urbanization projects submitted in April 2021 — ten months! — when the Town Hall of Lugo is applied for employment permits in May 2021 — ten months — and with the Town Councils of Ferrol and Betanzos, likewise, housing is required to rehabilitate and is more than one year since the licence application and has not yet been answered. That which I have just mentioned, of course, does impact on execution, impacts on indicators, impacts on targets and also impacts on time — for the sake of time. Of course, it's regrettable. But I'm going to put you, Mrs. Fernández, as an example of clarification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u147	...from different — named president — ways to work for one another. At the IGVS budget at the Bipartite Board (PSOE and BNG), up until 2009, 15% of the budget was for current expenses. Today it's 9%. In addition, the Institute's budget allocation was made artificially. How? Selling the floor of the Institute to the Gestur to generate income in this way at the Institute by indebteding the Gestur.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u149	Debt of the Xestur: 260 million euros that the next government, the People's Party, had to pay — ending its payment in 2019, that is, ten years later —.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u151	This is, Mrs Fernández, the budget execution and the accounts of the mismanagement of the Bipartite — PSOE and BNG — as regards housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Freire. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u153	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u154	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. We wanted to start by announcing that we will support and vote in favour of this initiative presented by the nationalist parliamentary group. And we wanted to start sharing also that we're already used to, by the Board of Housing of the Galician Board of Directors, as far as the big plans are concerned, such as this RehaVita Plan or housing plans, that big fuss, media shock and propaganda. They're specialists in reporting to the citizens, to this Parliament, to measure what the real effects and impact of these plans are, we say, the bomb and the plate are advertised, but when it comes to reporting, what we find is a real smoke bomb. And we share that it is the duty of the Board of Housing and the Council of Galicia to report to this Parliament; to present this evaluation report on this RehaVita Plan to measure fundamental axes in such important aspects as those that reach access to housing, rehabilitation of housing, urban renewal or also everything that has to do with the prevention of housing exclusion, but, unfortunately, we arrived at February 2022, more than one year later, and despite the fact that there is an agreement within the commission to present that assessment report before the end of 2021, here we are. As we have to wait, we look forward to, because the People's Party's Signorship was making the announcement that it will be on the next commission in which they are presented and explain the reasons and difficulties for the delay in this evaluation report. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, what we can do, once again, is a balance of what we consider to be a rare failure of the Government of Greece in the field of public housing policy. And we did it two weeks ago during the control question to the president of Galician Union. Our spokesperson was reviewing a series of indicators to transfer the great housing problem we have in our community, and the President of the Union's last turn was to say -- when we showed those graphs and the various indicators, which are many -- that we didn't know where we ended them from. Mr Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are data from the Ministry's own Observatory; just as we have these data from the departures of recent years - governing the People's Party - diminished in the field of public housing policy. Just compare them. We've already made that comparison, with the effort intended during the Bipartite Government. It is also enough to examine what is the unjustifiable low execution year after year in subjects, games and housing access programs. It's enough to get the data from the National Institute of Statistics, which says that young people in Greece are at the most critical levels of emancipation since the last decade, and that we're on the line of state. These are data, official reports, transparent records with which, unfortunately, we could bottle up, as much as they deny it, this Parliament. And we don't have to resort to espionages or hidden plots, because they're contracts, they're programs, they're data, and they're files that are available to everyone, except the evaluation reports that the Housing Council would have to submit to this Parliament. We're still waiting. And as the late national spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Almeida, said today, it is not wrong to pay contracts while they were illegal. We'll see what Anticorruption says. We cannot say anything, but there are things like that, with which the pandemic is falling, with which it is falling into housing policies — and now we will sink into the data they give in Galicia — but they are not illegal, but we can conclude that very morals are not; for example, with those data that we have around the problems of emancipation, the problems of access to housing, which are destined for public money from the Board of Directors to send reports to people next to the People's Party, so that they say that the great risk and the housing problem we have in this autonomous community is the occupation;, a paid report, contracted to the finger that contravene any official data — even accessible to the whole world — from the Prosecutor's Office or the data of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applause]] We said that the politics of the People's Party is a real failure. Unfortunately, we take the indicators we've caught, there are no programs aimed at correcting the housing problems of people with lower incomes. If we take the data from the IGE's IGE's Structural Survey of Homes, it ensures that more than half of the families, more than half of the Galicians and the Greeks, it costs them to pay the rent. That's where we said and we came to insist that we have to focus. Despite the rise in these last five years of rent prices above 25%, especially in urban areas, the Union does not want to take note of the Housing Policy Council. The Galician Network against Poverty itself warns us, particularly in recent times, that the main problem of social exclusion in this country is access to housing. But at the same time, if we took the data from the defiances in the second quarter of 2021 of the General Council of the Judiciary, we see that it was 447. Of these 447 evictions, 432 — the vast majority — were for rent defaults. Any indicator indicates where we should put our effort. In Galicia there are 47,700 homes with less than 600 euros of income each month. Twenty-five percent of these homes live paying rent, and only 2.5 percent pay a mortgage. If we pick up the homes that cost between 600 and 1,000 euros, we see that about 20% live on rent and only 5% pay a mortgage. That's where we're doing our best. There's no impulse from the public housing park, above all, in renting arrangements. This is how the Galego Institute of Living and Solo itself warns you of this strong and worrying demand in Galicia's housing plan 2021-2025. There is no coordination between the Housing Claimant Register and housing policies, as the Galician Housing Act itself commands and requires in its article 73. We have a government, in terms of housing, inert, with no capacity for action, without initiative, and the most worrying, without the slightest interest. Just as the Galician Network has been recognizing against poverty, speaking and balancing the pandemic in October 2021, in a report, it's not worth public policies, nor by the Social Policy Council, if we don't act on housing. They lack all these policies of relevance, if the housing budget is not multiplied to guarantee this right to a decent, accessible and suitable housing. In this context, they are absolutely intolerable and worrying about these data on housing execution. He said the spokesperson of the People's Party, who spoke of 2021 because there was no time to go any further, that in the period 2010-2020, in that black and bad decade, the Council of Galicia left without using four hundred million euros in housing policies. Of course, it's better to say that we don't have time to talk about the budget execution these last few years. We take the indicator we're taking, the reaction of the Galician Union is non-existent in many respects. And because they like the rankings so much, according to the Official Gazette of the Vivenda and Solo Observatory, Galicia occupies the last place among the autonomous communities of the state in which it reaches the protected housing percentage in relation to the built housing, period 2011-2019. A 9.7% front, for example, Navarre, with 52.8%, or even - look – Madrid, 47%. See the historical comparison of investments in relation to the two-party government and compare the per capita investment in public housing policies. In 2019 Galicia is located among the seven autonomous communities with less investment per inhabitant; only 34.7 euros in public housing policies. We wonder where that "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" is left, because, when it comes to talking about housing, what we do is to stand and sink into that strategy of confrontation that we are now going to understand — if someone didn't understand it, by the way — that he will now have to bear fruit of confrontation with the Government of the State. We are committed to saying that we are going to the Constitutional Court to denounce, challenge the Housing Bill because it invades powers. And we asked ourselves, "What competences do you have if you don't have them?" What competences do you intend to defend if in 2020 they left out two out of every three euros of housing funds? [[Applause]] So, to finish, housing policies have never been a priority for Mr. Feijóo, and in view of the circumstances and the present moment, that Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, where is it now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u156	Mrs. Freire, of course, they deny information to this parliamentary group, not only by delivering the evaluation report, but also by asking each time we ask a question about data on the execution of various housing programs, the answer by the Council is a standard answer that says we will give you the data when we deliver the report. That's for a year. So if they don't answer the question and send us to a report that isn't enough, they've been blocking the control capacity of this parliamentary group for a year. [[Applause]] It was quite revealing that in his intervention he did not argue that you paralyze the protected housing, that you paralyze the acquisition of public soil, that you were unable to comply with what they said to curb the prices of living in the free market, and that you probably do not override it because you have completely normalized that it was a big lie and that you wouldn't do that to what you had compromised themselves. I also have to tell you that there are things that were committed to this plan — which I hope you haven't done — for example, the sales program of the public housing park, which you wanted to carry forward. We also want to know the data from that program. What we really have to be sure is that those programs that were meant to improve the living conditions of those people didn't meet them. And the list of non-compliances is endless. There was also a commitment in that programme to reduce the collapse of the Housing Claimant Register, which had 15,000 registered persons. Five years later there are 15,000 registered persons and the record is collapsed. And there's more misconceptions about rehabilitation as well. Mrs. Freire brought you here, took a look from the Rexurbe program. We're going to tell the truth about the Regurbe program. You, the People's Party, in 2016, committed themselves to making 1,500 homes in the wake of the Rexurbe program. The result, over those four years, was that you've rehabilitated 9 real estates, of 1,500 homes that you promised. [[Applause]] But since the People's Party doesn't give an account of what it does and mind systematically instead of apologizing to the Greeks and Greeks for not doing what they promised, they redoubled their wagering in the 2020 electoral program and said: 1,500 homes, no; 3,000 we're going to promise, and the result is what it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're not going to meet those goals, because that means making 750 homes a year in the legislation, and how much do you invest in Joina in that program? For the initial investment was 8 million euros, but they executed 3 million euros. I don't know if the People's Party is capable of working the miracle of 3 million euros making 750 homes a year. Either the People's Party has the ability to multiply bread and fish or they lie shamelessly. [[Applause]] And there are dozens of examples in rehabilitation programs that are bluf. They also committed themselves to doing a rehabilitation office with an initial budget of 200,000 euros and executed, zero euros; they committed a share of 1.7 million euros for rehabilitation of the public housing park and executed, zero euros. In the matter of empty housing, more of the same. You here said that the blame was for everyone else, except the Council, but that the total result of the Empty Housing Program in four years was thirty empty housing mobilized, and the result of the Rehaluga program, which is another empty housing program, was that they granted two aids amounting to 6,900 euros. That's all there is to empty housing on the side of the board. [[Applause]] And, seeing these figures, you better understand why you're running away from accounting. I don't think you need fourteen months because you're very busy in the Council, fourteen months to collect the data! because if you see the figures, you don't have to collect so much data. The data is more scarce. You didn't need fourteen months to get that data, you need fourteen months to make the data, which is nowhere to get it. [[Applause]] As for the amendment of the People's Party, what it proposes is to eliminate the point that requires a diagnosis of the causes of the deviation of budgeting and an assessment of the impact on the marked targets. I mean, they want us to delete the part where we're being asked to explain to the board why there were these breaches -- an explanation that contrasts with the goals that were announced and the results. I wonder, if you're so convinced that this housing plan was fantastic, that everything was fine, why don't you want to do an analysis of the plan's objectives? What do you have to hide? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, we're not going to accept your amendment, which shows that you're allergic to giving your face and reporting. We're not going to accept it because we believe that the Greeks deserve to have the data, but also the explanations why the Union is not doing what it should.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and eight other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Government of Spain so that the State funds which could not be implemented in the wake of the Third and Fourth Year's Rescue Plan for self-employed persons, professionals and companies particularly affected by the crisis of the Covid-19 may be allocated to a new support plan for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u158	This motion for a non-law has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u159	And to formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the time since this morning has served the Galego Nationalist Block and, of course, also the Socialist Party — which at this time, together with Podemos, is the one responsible for mal-governance in Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u161	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u162	Well, in the State Government. It sounds better that way, doesn't it? [[Laughter]] Well, thank you very much, that I know you're a serious person. [[Laughter]] He said that I hope that the time since this morning would be used for the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block to make a reflection and be able to put aside the interests of Galicia and the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks to add force through an agreement, which may be unanimous, of this House — to assume forces to that request which has already made the Employment and Equality Adviser in this same plenary plenary session both in questions from the majority group of this House, the People's Group, and also in the past interpellation — so that Galicia will recover what is appropriate, so that Galicia will recover those funds that it was not possible to implement in the last rescue plans — 70 million euros —. And it's about getting them back into much more flexible and more responsive conditions to the reality of the sector that allow them to be useful — as is their purpose — for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the autonomous and autonomous Greeks. The pandemic crisis has not ended yet, ladies and gentlemen, and the Greek companies continue to need those support. We cannot and do not want to afford the luxury of losing one euro for the German industrial fabric. And that is precisely what the People's Group calls for in this initiative, which we can sum up very well on these two points: firstly — and I know that tomorrow we voted for point 2, but nothing to do with this point — that the Government of Spain re-assigns Galicia — not only to do studies but to re-assign it — the state funds that could not be executed in the autumn of III and IV of the plan for the rescue of self-employed and business, and can be destined for a new plan of support that we would put into effect this year 2022; secondly, that this initiative, unlike the last two, fits as much as possible into the reality of our business fabric and incorporates the criteria established by the autonomous communities in common agreement with the Galician social dialogue and the Bureau of the Self-Employm. Finally, that the aid is designed by the Council of Galicia without the pitfalls they put in Moncloa, so that it reaches the levels of execution similar to those of the first two rescue plans. Ladies and gentlemen, the first two rescue plans, which designed Galician Union with own funds, with autonomous funds, were a success, were a success! And they could be practically executed in their entirety. In fact, when it was the first and second rescue plan that took over 80,000 applications and 182 million euros were injected in support of our country's business fabric. On the other hand, when it was the Socialist Party in Madrid, since Moncloa, who imposed the conditions of distribution and access to these funds — something that happened in the III and the IV Rescue Plan — of the 234 million euros that the State has sent to Galicia, it was only possible to answer 15,000 applications — compared to 80,000 in the first and second — worth 166 million euros. That's 30% of the funds available that we couldn't compromise. And that's despite the fact that Galicia is among the first autonomous communities in relation to the level of execution of these funds. And we may wonder why you failed. Well, we've already said. While in Galicia they always tried to agree on the criteria for access to aid for those who were more advantageous and adapted to the circumstances of the Italian economic fabric, the Central Government imposed certain conditions for access to aid in the III and the IV plan which, rather than conditions, were real pitfalls and real impediments. However, we try to understand why at first we could only benefit from certain activities and certain sectors of activity, excluding other very important ones from our territory. And it also sought to understand why it had to be an essential condition for access to the aid to present debts — i.e., companies were thus penalized, even if they could go through difficulties, they paid their bills, and that's what they were doing. And the Galician Union did its best. The German Government acted within the scarce margin of manoeuvre that left the state and made some conditions more flexible. He addressed the Central Government to change the rule that he imposed by royal decree and that he suffered up to three changes. But neither were they able to meet the needs of the self-employed; ultimately, of the workers and the workers of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen — I conclude — the People's Group calls for them to vote in favour of what is a fair demand from Galicia, which seeks to favour our business fabric at the moment when it needs it most. And I think, in addition, that we must be honest about what reality proves. I can assure you that if the Galician Union were the administration responsible for drawing up these two last plans, our business fabric would already be behind its 70 million euros that today are at risk of returning to the State's archives, not because of the Galician Union, not because of the self-government and not because of the companies, but because the central government was unable to make these aids fair and accessible. And that is why I hope that this initiative will be supported by all the Members of this House in the light of what is clearly — I would like to stress again — a fair request from Galicia. I know Mrs. Rumbo is coming here and she's going to say we're making a deal in the morning, number two. I just read the agreement proposed by the Popular Group. And what we took the morning says, ladies and gentlemen, "Setting mechanisms for collaboration with the state to be able to execute the 70 million euros not executed by the Galician Union to meet the pemmes, microenterprises and workers." What we ask is that the state redeploy us 70 million euros. We don't need studies, the studies we already have, the studies are that they need Greek companies, the studies are that they need German self-employed people. And the commitment of the People's Group and the commitment of the Government of Galicia is to redeploy Galicia these 70 million euros. And this year, the year 2022, we're going to put the fifth plan in place so that these 70 million finally come to whoever needs them. That is the commitment of the Government of Galicia and that is the commitment of the majority group of this House, of the group that supports the action of the Government. [[Applause]] So, let's hope that both the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block -- I know that the Galician Nationalist Block is one day full of work because you've been very pleased, you've been a lot of bulldozers, I suppose you'll get some rest now -- you're going to vote for it. [[Laughter]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u164	Well, we resumed the debate in the morning on the execution of the funds and reiterated what we said in the morning debate and that we denounced on a number of occasions during these years: that the requirements set by the State Government for self-government and companies to be able to access the aid of the Fourth Union Rescue Plan with state funds were difficult to meet and far-sighted in terms of their processing. We say this in the morning, we report it on numerous occasions, and our speeches and proposals in this Parliament have always been in this respect. And we did it because we consider it very important for our business fabric that Galician self-sufficient and self-sufficient and small businesses can access and take advantage of the last cent of the funds that reach our country. The requirements laid down by the State, designed to encourage large companies — especially in certain non-predominant sectors in Galicia — have highlighted the practical problems of lack of a genuine self-government. The seams of the current autonomic framework of the financing system were kept in sight. And it also came to the sight of the inability of the German Government, the government of Faixóo, to meet the needs of the people that govern. The solutions and mechanisms driven by the Government of the State have been misdesigned, but the response of the government of Fexóo to this problem was entrepreneurship. Today there are 70 million euros not running. It's the evidence, the proof of cotton, of the ineffectiveness of both governments. The government of Faisóo, in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis, opted for Trumpism — today we can say aidism without fear of deceiving us—, betting on the brow, wear, the "thing worse, better" — all to the greatest glory of its party and itself—. It wasn't the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks who were going through him wrong, who were going through him wrong, who were primal in their government action. There is, despite the obvious needs, demands to improve Galicia's self-government, funding or competence framework. It's been twelve years without claiming the transfer of competences, as I said in the morning, and fearing to keep that small Galician People's Party, that dependent Galician and branchist who must now leave. Since the BNG we urge the Government of Greece — again — to promote the establishment of a bilateral table with the State in which to put on the table the particular problem of our productive tissue, in which to put on the table the needs of our country's funds. We did it a month ago, and you voted against it. Today, of course, they will refuse our proposal again. They assume that the real defense of our country is progressing in self-government. They overcome their complexes and support the constitution of that bilateral table. Only in this way will we be able to assure our self-employed companies and people that the amounts and funds arriving in Galicia can be executed as a whole. The rest is a toast to the sun, and you know it, but all they're looking for is to confront the state and that's supposed to fool our business fabric. Since the BNG we have had an open dialogue from the very first moment with a multitude of representative entities from different sectors affected, and we have brought many initiatives to demand the launch of rescue plans by the Board. At these meetings autonomous and small and medium-sized people insisted on the lack of liquidity arising from restrictions and the paralysis of activity, which, however, did not paralyze current business spending, which continued to accumulate with or without it. These aids, which could inflate thousands of Greek businesses in a critical situation, we also call for them from the Spanish State. But the Union, with competences and budgetary capacity, preferred something else. For nine months neither the state nor the Galician Union took real and effective measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people. During those nine months of the year 2020, Mr. Fexóo's Meeting and the Central Government have done nothing but try to excuse their inaction, which is absolutely embarrassing, by assigning responsibility to the other. For Junta, as the restrictions affecting the activity were imposed by the State, it was the State that had to open aid lines; and for the State it was the autonomous governments to whom it corresponded to articulating those aids. And in the meantime, the house without sweeping. While the Union and the state played this shameful political tennis game, many small and medium-sized companies that make up the German business fabric have disappeared for lack of help. They closed a number of 3,156 in 2020 — according to the balance sheet of the Central Directory of Enterprises published by the National Institute of Statistics. Galicia closed in 2020 with a loss of 1,384 autonomous. It has been the worst year of membership since 2012. And, if they didn't get lost anymore, it was because, in order to recover the benefit for cessation of activity, it was necessary to be discharged in the RETA. It's demolition data that, given the performance of one administration and another administration, shows that neither of them has been able to meet the circumstances and what they legitimately require of them the Italian pemens and autonomous people. The evils called "rescue plans" I and II were nothing more than small patches that did not compensate at all for so many accumulated months of expenses and losses. That's why since the BNG we insist that Together put in place a genuine rescue plan with sufficient financial resources. And at the same time, we are calling on the Central Government to take fiscal measures of State competence. But none of that they did. The German Government preferred to remain installed in the political bronch, in the sterile confrontation, following the guidelines of the People's Party of Madrid which in no way benefited our country. Political bronca, yes; proposals that improve self-government and the capacity of the Union to meet the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, no. Madrid commands. Unsatisfied needs and unspent money are the result of their management, of the management of both governments. They fought first about who was supposed to push those plans and fight now about who was to blame for what happened. You fight for imposing each one's account, its version of the story. But history has no versions. It was as it was, and people had to go out in the street for more than a year, they know it well, because neither of the two governments was able to meet the circumstances. They are well aware that political and partisan trumped up and lacking empathy, concern, political will and, above all, budgetary appropriations. The story of Junta, which today brings the People's Party here to say that the requirements designed by the self-government in the midst of social dialogue made it possible to make available to the company fabric measured in record time, is what is commonly known as the "knocking," a genuine slide. The reality is that you failed in the deadlines, you failed in the coverages, you failed in the dialogue with the sectors and you failed as a responsible government. You were for almost two years the worst that could be a government, were a ball machine out, a escapist government that actually resigned its responsibility. And then talking about Galician social dialogue is very bold, because you're talking a little bit more about it. In fact, they systematically refuse and leave the organizations of consultation and participation of the social entities that exist in Galicia. They exist in Galicia — one must be reminded — official bodies for consultation and participation in which all the entities representing the Greek society are represented: the unions — all — the employers, universities, consumer associations, agricultural unions, the sea sector etc. There are these bodies, independent of government and plural bodies, such as the Galician society. And you leave these bodies in favor of an informal forum called "social dialogue", where only those entities that give you reason are involved. That is the concept and respect that the People's Party has for pluralism and for the independence of autonomous institutions. It's worth it when it comes to your interests, including building the account that you're politically interested in. We refer, above all, to the Galician Economic and Social Council. But it's not the only organism you leave. If with this initiative presented today the debate really sought consensus for these unexecuted funds to remain in the country and help our business fabric, they would not have included such loas to some rescue plans of the Union that were insufficient and they also arrived late for thousands of businesses and autonomous and autonomous Greeks. Nor would they attempt to use a debate on funds for the rescue of firms in crisis and the problems of running these funds to legitimize that informal forum that the German Government elects to the detriment of official bodies. Do you want to solve the real problems of a plural society or do you just want to impose a story, your twisted version of history? For that it doesn't hold with us. To solve real people's problems and to transfer to the government of the state positions of country, consensual and debated where it corresponds and without excluding anyone, there we will be the first. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr Balsairo, that you are pleased that you come here to talk about adding force so that Galicia will recover what is in it, when it was you, the People's Party, who voted against that funds — included within these 140 billion euros — arrived in Spain and therefore arrived in Galicia. Look, Mr. Balsairo, did you say anything to the gentleman in his resignation, to Mr. Casado, that he stopped going to Brussels to do the ridicule and speak ill of his country, trying not to reach these funds? Did they tell you anything from Galicia? Did they tell the President of the House of Ourense, in this picture that he is so sorry to leave next to the mayors and mayors of the People's Party, that he stops making the ridiculous going back to Brussels to stop the funds from coming to Spain and, therefore, to Galicia and, therefore, to these funds that you want to be executed but don't want them to come? [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a picture.]] Tell me, because the truth is I don't understand it too well, I don't understand it too well. That's risking your help, that's risking your help. It's less bad than the aid managers in Brussels don't even receive them, not even so! And the European Commission has already told them for the fourth time that Spain's funds were being well managed, which is bad for them. It's hard for them to be well managed. And, look, I've already told you this morning that love for Galicia—"Galicia, Galicia, Galicia"—is shown to support the measures that benefit our country, and being on the side of the Government as soon as possible, and all together, we can get out of this triple crisis — economic, social and health — by not putting poles on the wheels. Look, they had the opportunity to show that interest in Galicia, of what you were talking to me this morning, voting in favour of reaching this 140 billion euros. But you decided that a partisan strategy was much more important. It was far more important for these resources to reach Galicia and, therefore, those people, those workers, those self-employed workers, those professionals and those pemes that they so desperately need, and that this country so much it needs to rebuild us and return to the path of economic growth. But you weren't there, you preferred your partisan strategy. So you don't want to talk to us about love or responsibility for Galicia. See, since the World Health Organization declared, on 11 March 2020, the global pandemic caused by cowardice, governments, all governments of virtually all the world, had to act immediately and take a series of measures to alleviate the consequences of this health, economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. They had to protect people's health, contain disease progression, strengthen the public health system and adopt a number of economic and labor measures to avoid mass dismissal and cessation in economic activities. At the same time, a number of social measures had to be taken to prevent the most vulnerable people from being socially or economically excluded without the possibility of return. And, in that sense — if, Mr. Balsairo, you can laugh at everything you want — the government of Pedro Sánchez, from the very first moment of the declaration of the state of alarm, has put into operation a powerful plan of shock of economic, social and labor measures — initially estimated at about EUR 200,000 million — to protect companies, to protect self-employed persons, who, for the first time in a crisis, had coverage of the Government of the State in the face of the paralysis of their activity or the decrease in their income, those who had moratoriums on their principal tax debts, the return of claims and the payment of contributions. They had actions to reduce their fixed and variable costs through direct assistance for the payment of wages and social contributions by their workers. They have relief measures in the payment of renters. The State provided income, through an extraordinary allowance, to self-employed persons and provided liquidity to companies through public-aided loans through the ICO — in particular, 37,000 Greek companies have benefited from this measure. And so there are these 234 million euros that you transferred a year ago to the Galician Council to provide direct aid to the companies most affected by health decisions made in their territorial area, 234 million euros that you — not you, the Galician Union — have not been able to fully implement, so you are at risk of losing 70 million euros because of their failure to execute and their failure to manage. [[Applause]] Well, look, Pedro Sánchez's government has also taken measures to protect workers and workers through the ERTE, those of you in the morning so much. More than 210,000 Welsh and Welsh were the beneficiaries. And they stopped them from being unemployed, they prevented them from being unemployed and the massive destruction of jobs — which you don't care about. The telework was implemented and regulated, the recuperable pay permit, the improvement of the protection of decontinuous locks and workers with temporary contracts, and the implementation of measures for household employees. The state government has not left behind the most vulnerable. Almost 37,000 Greeks and Greeks have received the minimum living income to this day. And in three years the government of Pedro Sánchez — look at this graph, Mr Balsairo — increased the minimum interprofessional salary by 264 euros a month, compared with the 94 in which it increased by seven years of government of "eme dot" Rajoy. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a chart from the stage.]] This is difference and love for Spain and for the Greeks and for the Greeks. [[Applause]] But, look, Mr. Balsairo, with this government, with the president's government — say: President Pedro Sánchez, President Pedro Sánchez!—, the pension system has been reformed to return the purchasing power to pensioners and to derogate this shameful rate of revaluation of 0.25% approved by the People's Party's "empoint" Rajoy. And today nearly 770,000 pensioners have seen their pensions revalued according to the IPC during this year 2021. In this same month — we spoke in the morning — Pedro Sánchez's government has also approved labour reform, which will help to reverse the work precariousness and the current level of unemployment that we had with the 2012 reform of "eme dot" Rajoy. And, look, I'm not going to remember the shameful performance of the People's Party to try not to go out using those artimagins that they so well know and control. But if I'm going to remind them of what you voted against and that they should explain it to the working people in our country — and BNG should explain it to them too. They voted against betting on quality employment, which leaves decades behind the precaution of the 2012 model based on wage devaluation. They voted against reducing timeliness by strengthening the creation of quality employment. They voted against boosting indefinite recruitment and stable employment. They voted against regaining the prevalence of the sectoral agreement against the company. They voted against limiting temporary recruitment and promoting the fixed contract. They voted against recovering indefinite ultraactivity. They voted against stopping redundancies and protecting the productive fabric — regulated in a new instrument, the RED mechanism for flexibility and employment stabilization —. And they voted against it also to prevent EREs in public administrations. They therefore voted against growth in the path of decent employment and stable employment. And, look, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the poor working class -- those people who, despite their work, don't have a salary that allows them to develop a decent life and get out of that poverty situation -- was born with the 2012 labor reform of Rajoy's "eme dot". But it's just, if you were, that really none of the rights would come back to either the workers or the workers in this country and 140 billion euros would not reach Spain or, therefore, would arrive in Galicia. I don't have time, although I have here sketched out a number of measures that I recommend you to read. It is a report by the Government of Spain, an accounting report by the Government of Spain, of December 2021, referring to Galicia, and in which you can check with data the economic approaches transferred to Galicia, which amount to EUR 5 billion, and which is this — the government of President Pedro Sánchez — the most investor government in the history of our community. And by the way, Mr. Balsairo and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I know you have a complicated day today. They solve it and they end up with that corruption that runs through their veins. We are going to vote in favour of this GNP — if we had thought about it but I didn't announce it to them before — because we do want Galicia and we do want those funds not to be lost, that they come to Galicia and that they are reinvested here in our territory and in the people we live in. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we thank the Socialist Group for voting in favour of this initiative. And let's hope that the most radical left, the Galician Nationalist Block, will also join this initiative. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I've been listening to her very carefully, and I did agree with you on something, but there are others I didn't. You said: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia... and asked how he defended himself. Then I'll tell him how to defend himself. He defended Galicia, Galicia, Galicia and, for the fourth time, Galicia. And this parliamentary group always had more support from Galicia, while its parliamentary group in all these electoral processes had less representation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] At least you start looking at your own house. [[Laughter]] And, look, I have to say that rescue plans with state funds... the Member of Boimorto never lets talk in this Parliament, which we are going to do! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you have the same concept when you go up to the gallery and interrupt it immediately. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] I don't think so! It's just that I've been watching him in several plenarys and it's always the same. I have to say that these programs started wrong from the start, Mrs. Rodríguez. These programs were late, they arrived more than a year later, more than a year after the alarm status statement!, when the Board had already executed nothing but two own plans. And in addition, fewer resources have been made than did Galicia. Look, we received exactly 234 million euros, a figure that represents only 3.34% of the 7 billion transferred by the state to autonomous communities. If we use the number of self-employed and businesses located in our territory as a distribution criterion, it would be 7% of the funds, and this would be EUR 350 million. It would be EUR 115 million more than we received in Galicia. So they like it or they don't like the forces of the opposition, the central government has made an example of its already classic aggravating comparison to Galicia. And to you, perhaps, it's worth it, because you speak on behalf of the Socialist Party. When I refer in this Parliament to the President, in this Parliament I refer to President Feijóo, who is the President of the Government of Galicia. You seem to want us to address President Sánchez. Okay, because we are currently directing ourselves to the wrong government, because you know, in addition, that, to speak of the Government of Spain, we cannot refer to President Sánchez alone and exclusively. Because you have the president of a part of the government. On the other side of the government, you don't shoot or cut. You have the president of a part of the government. That doesn't happen in Galicia, here's a president of the whole government. So, of course, you don't ask us impossible things, because impossible things we can't do from the parliamentary group. And, look, Mr. representative of the Galego Nationalist Block, you say there was no plan that was born of the fruit of the constant dialogue. Look, the Employment and Equality Council maintains its social dialogue — where the most representative trade union and business organisations in Galicia are sitting — 12 specific meetings on rescue plans, not forgetting many others that took place at the different specific work tables within the social dialogue. With the Bureau of the Self-Employment, 15 meetings; with the representatives of the hostel, 25 meetings. And do you set an example that there was no social dialogue? But what figures, what data, you handle? What data does the Galician Nationalist Block handle? Demagogy, unique and exclusively! So let's hope the Galician Nationalist Block joins. And I end up like I started, because it's born to be grateful. We thank the Socialist Party for supporting this initiative. Because, finally, this will be an initiative — let's hope that they will take care of us in the Central Government — to benefit the Greeks and the Greeks, to benefit from the pemes and to benefit the self-employed, who at this moment, in the difficult times they have lived and that we are living, good need is done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u169	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u170	No, we're not going to accept the amendment. No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u171	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Parliament and the Government in relation to research on sexual abuse of minors in the Catholic Church and support for victims
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u172	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u173	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u174	Good afternoon. I'd like to make a clarification to Mr. Balsairo, who seems to lack data. It's a clarification, Mr. Balsairo. [[Murmurs.]] You said that social dialogue took place among Galicia's most representative trade union organizations. So I have to give you some information -- I don't know if you know it -- that the most representative union organization in Galicia is called IGC. To CIG! [[Applause]] And you exclude it systematically. [[Murmurs.]] You know why? [[Applause]] For lack of democracy and sectarianism. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's talk about sexual abuse in the Church. I confess that it's difficult, it's painful, to talk about this subject. It's hard to speak on behalf of the victims of such terrible acts. And I want to tell you a story that happened to me recently, specifically last November. I remember that it was November 1 when I received a message from a friend who sent me the message for the app. He told me after he didn't dare call me in person. He told me he was a victim of sexual abuse at an educational center by a teacher. He told me he had felt, over time, shame, guilt, anxiety, fear... he told me it took me a long time to overcome these feelings, if they really get over it someday. And he also told me that what he would do most was watch the abuser continue to practice as a teacher and participate in public acts and religious acts. And that's what we want to talk about today, trying to put us in the victim's place with the utmost respect, with the utmost sensitivity and also with the greatest responsibility. It is true, it cannot be denied, that all sexual abuse of minors must be investigated and condemned, without a doubt, with all means and with all the weight of the law. But now it's about sexual abuse by members of the Catholic Church against defenseless and vulnerable children. We have the moral and political duty to speak — and to do so in this rostrum, in this Parliament — of the Catholic Church, although, in fact, specifically of the Catholic Church, because it has already shut up a lot, it has taken too long. And now it's time to talk, listen to the victims, accompany them, know the truth, do justice and help repair so much damage, so much pain, so much pain. For a long time this was a taboo theme. As in other cases of violence, the law of silence has been instituted. Impunity has been imposed. There was tolerance, too much tolerance, and permissiveness. There were complications, there was covert, there were institutional responsibilities — and, of course, also, by the Church, by the ecclesiastical hierarchy. That's why you just have to remove the past even if you pray, though it is uncomfortable, because in the knowledge of that past there is a part of the solution to the suffering of thousands of people and also the keys to preventing such atrocities from happening again in the future. [[Applause]] And now is the time for a very concrete debate: that of the abuses in the Catholic Church committed by representatives of the Catholic Church. Because it is a social demand — including certain sectors of the Church — that the People's Party has refused to listen wrongly for defending the interests and privileges of that institution. And we have to regret and condemn — we have to say this here — the statements, which we find irresponsible, by Mr Fexóo, which applied the People's Party's Handbook at the foot of the letter. Over these weeks they have been alone abandoning the victims and embracing the Catholic hierarchy. And today they have the opportunity to rectify, to do so with all the consequences, by their own conviction and not by force. Look, at this point it's clear that sexual abuse in the Church is not isolated cases, it's not individual cases. It's a systematic, systemic phenomenon that has no borders. What is exceptional, which is unique, is the Spanish State, the Spanish model of impunity — as in other serious human rights violations. We know how other countries have known how to deal with these serious facts. We're talking about a very close reality that hits and interrogates us every day with new cases—so, here in Galicia, we see it often in the media, and the most recent case was here very close, in the educational center of La Salle. They are moving, dramatic, shimmering reports. And I'm just the surface layer of an ocean of violence, of pain, of physical and psychological destruction. That's why we need an answer at various levels. First of all, in the field of the Church, applying the answer this institution must give, which we know has many limitations. And, of course, we know it's not a solution to hire a consultant, hire a law firm, because there is a need for specialized teams of experts who know this matter to act in this area. He has to act on justice, which we know he also has many limitations on the prescription of many of these crimes. And institutional action is needed by setting up a public research commission. That's what the victims say, they tell the international bodies, and they also said a very prestigious study of the Open University of Catalonia, the Autonomous University and the University of the Basque Country on abuses in the Catholic Church, putting in addition the reference to what has been done — and it has done well — in other countries, which is the way to act in the Greek case as well. With this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, what we want to do is take a step in that direction, in the direction of what the victims are asking us to do. They have recently made public a manifesto which clearly marks the path to follow and which calls on all political groups to support these measures. We think of this proposal as agreeing that there is no reason not to support it. The first is a firm and round statement by this Parliament in which it is agreed as a resolution to condemn serious cases of child sexual abuse in the Catholic Church and to show support for victims in their demand for truth, justice and reparation. In addition, we propose that Parliament urge the Union to cooperate in the investigations carried out in the field of the Church, justice and public institutions aimed at getting to know the truth, repairing the damage caused and condemning those responsible for these serious crimes. And secondly, to provide support and support to victims both in the complaint process and in the treatment and treatment of the damage and sequelae caused by the abuses they have suffered. We want to call on the People's Party to rectify, to change the position it has publicly expressed, so that it clearly chooses which side it is — which must be on the side of the victims, not the defense of the interests of the Church; on the side of the recognition of the gravity of the facts and the need to investigate them, not on the side of minimization, relativization, the deviation of attention. Today we have the opportunity for a firm and clear agreement that demonstrates sensitivity to social demand, empathy for victims and commitment to truth, justice and reparation. And I ended up talking about that friend who wrote to me a few months ago telling me that dramatic experience. When I called him right away, of course, to talk to him, he said he wouldn't report, that the facts, that the abuses, they had already prescribed, but he wanted me to know. I think he wanted something else, though he didn't say so. I wanted us to do something, and today we have the opportunity and the duty to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u175	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u176	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will begin this intervention by showing the solidarity and support of the majority group of this House, of the People's Group, to all victims of sexual abuse in childhood; and of course also to the victims who may be given by some members of the Church. [[Applause]] We're talking about one of the most despicable and horrendous crimes, and not only because of the special vulnerability of their victims — who are children and children — but also because it causes a background of both their physical integrity and their development in the different stages of growth and their relationships with other people. And as a mother, I think there is nothing more atrocious than to abuse helpless children, and nothing more cowardly than to hide it. I am sure that I express a feeling shared by society as a whole and by all who are here — and whoever makes it —. No one with a minimum of sensitivity — and you said so, Mr Bará — can look the other way. So, don't doubt it, of course, we support that all cases are investigated, that we support that justice is done in all of them and that we also support that damage is repaired in any circumstance to all victims. For the German Government this issue is absolutely a priority. And, in fact, the Autonomic Administration has been working for decades on this subject. Greek was the first autonomous government to officially adhere to the Council of Europe campaign for the prevention of sexual violence against children, children and adolescents — a commitment that translates into the need to train professionals working in different areas of childhood and adolescence so that they can easily detect these situations of abuse. The joint effort of the Social Policy and Education Councils, together with the Greek universities and associations working in the field of childhood — such as Amino.gal — is to raise awareness of the members of these settings most immediate to minors, the family environment and the school environment, about child sexual abuse, and to provide tools to families with minors and the educational community for their detection. We also find it very important in this debate to inform the Greek society that the Union has resources to help victims and their families. And these resources — in particular, for example, the Specialized Programme of Intervention with Victims of Abuse or Sergas's Set of Resources — will always be available to all victims of child sexual abuse. The program that specializes in intervention with people who are victims of sexual abuse is a result of the collaboration between the Social Policy Council and the Children's Foundation, and it operates throughout the autonomous community. The purpose is the therapeutic treatment of children, children and adolescents who have been victims of abuse and who have emotional and conduct disorders as a result of abuse. Logically, the priority is to work in the field of prevention so that these abuses will never happen. But in the event that unfortunately happens, Galicia has been counting since the year 2000 — more than 20 years ago — an inter-administrative protocol of actions directed both at the detection of abuse and its notification and at the specialized intervention with victims. What is sought is that there is complete coordination between the different administrations and the different establishments that need to act to avoid, for example, revitalizations or conflicts — which sometimes occur — of loyalty to their parents. And, of course, it also participates with various instruments such as the territorial services of minors. The priority is to investigate those responsible and to pay for them — including in relation to the abuses committed by some members of the Catholic Church. It seems to us that the words of the Archbishop of Santiago, Mr. Julián Barrio, in which he was fully prepared to cooperate with the public authorities, were particularly correct. In line with what the Episcopal Conference is saying, by collaborating in research, repair and prevention of abuses, the Catholic Church, in particular, will be equipped with tools and tools so that the person who is abused can feel welcomed, protected and counted with reparation. Just as it seems important for us to know the truth, which are the cases, the circumstances in which they were given and to provide training to prevent these situations and create safe places where these abuses do not take place. The Church is aware of the damage caused by some of its members. In fact, the Episcopal Conference explicitly summed up its will with these words in which it explained: "The Church lives with pain and great shame the emergence of these cases of abuse." And he indicated that "one case is something serious and terrible" -- and we agree -- to end up ensuring the Church's desire to know the truth so that it can never happen again. We even knew yesterday that we took this commitment from a critical and non-conformist perspective. We read in a newspaper: "Independence to clarify the abuses of the Church. The aim is to identify the victims, listen to their complaints and degrade them, whose dignity is far from the demagogy with which the Government harasses the episcopate with the excuse of assisting its victims. The Spanish Church will be subjected to an independent audit and will review the legal procedures to punish criminal practices." It will offer its collaboration to the authorities and will also establish a system of prevention that meets the demands of justice and reparation for victims, even where the offender dies or the crime is prescribed — which we consider to be quite important in order to stand out. We also saw in a newspaper yesterday how it was doing all the investigations that the Prosecutor's Office could carry out to help clarify all the cases. Ladies and gentlemen, eradicating abuse is a task of society as a whole, of public institutions, of the media and also of the Church as part of the society it is. But let us make it clear that all abuses occur in all areas of society, in all areas of society. One of the most recent studies by the ANAR and Save The Children Foundation concludes that the vast majority of cases of child abuse occur in the inter-family sphere or in borders close to the family. In that sense, we present precisely our amendment of addition, which, of course, proposes to add the explicit request that the abuses committed by some members of the Church — where we agree — should be investigated, and a specific mention to combat the scourge of child sexual abuse, to deepen all cases — whether the context in which they were given — and to support people who suffered or suffered in all areas, without exception. Of course there is no reason, Mr Bará, to reject your initiative, as we also hope there is no reason to accept our amendment — which is to add — to your text. To conclude, the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this issue is very clear. The fight against child sexual abuse is a total and absolute priority of this group, such as the Greek Government, because we are talking about a despicable and excruciable crime — as we said at the outset — that takes care of the most defenseless people in our society. Today we want more than ever to be around the victims, and our goal, as public servants, is that all victims of child sexual abuse in Galicia are protected, are accompanied and, if necessary, receive the psychotherapeutic treatment they need; as well as, of course, collaborate with any research related to cases of sexual abuse to minors, whatever the context — the church included — in what can be produced. I already agree with the certainty that all the Members here and all the administrations and institutions, without exception, are committed to defending the priority interests of children, our children and our children; we are ultimately committed to the protection of children. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u178	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will support this initiative. We share the need and responsibility, as public representatives, to condemn these abuses and to support all victims. Mrs Rodríguez, I believe that no one can question that, unfortunately, child abuse is not a matter of time, but that it is a structural problem of this society and a constant tear over time, and that it corresponds, in addition, to all public authorities in the State eradicating this by tightening convictions and by policies of prevention, control and protection. But even though this is the case and the latest data from the World Health Organization show that 20% of children in Europe suffer abuse — and it is much larger — this percentage, unfortunately, on other continents, we do not share at all the attitude of the President of the Union, Mr Feijóo's attitude, of trying to divert the focus and sell this as a general problem in all areas. We don't know what he wants with this, we don't know why he wants to divert this focus. It's like winning points with the Episcopal Conference now that you have to earn points in Madrid and make new contacts. But what we do know is that diverting this focus is a mistake and that it's still hiding a reality. [[Applause]] And it's been many years hiding this reality. So that's enough! we can't look to the other side or minimize an existing reality, as it is that many of these paedophile monsters — because I think they don't even have the category of people — have been hiding for many years, so that they can commit these abuses with total impunity, after a baton, after the shield of protection and after the moral superiority that gives to an institution such as the Catholic Church. [[Applause]] Because, moreover, we cannot forget that in a country like ours, subjected to forty years of national Catholicism, with a church that has continued to have a great power and still has, we probably have generations and generations of children abused. They are cases that have been going out on time so far, because unfortunately it has always been a taboo theme and because, unfortunately, if we take off this blanket, they are not only children, children and adolescents but we also find numerous aggressions against older people — many of them and many of them in a hierarchical, social or psychological inferiority situation. How many nephews and nieces of the priest do we know in our territory? Unfortunately, many. And what did this cause? For this causes many hypothetical lives to which the suffering that causes sexual abuse unites what causes disbelief, silence or rejection by people or institutions to which many victims came to denounce these aggressions. The Catholic Church acted for years as a wall, as a wall of silence; or in exceptional cases, and when the situation was already flagrant, with good words and false promises that resulted, on the one hand, in a complete absence of justice—and even less reparation—and on the other hand, impunity in practice for both the aggressors and the hedgehogs. Although it's true that these days are going out within the Church's breast, voices that offer collaboration -- and yesterday they were talking about an independent audit -- we all know what an independent part-session audit is. It's getting the fox to look after the chickens. What the Church has to do from the hierarchy is take more steps forward and, beyond these declarations of a religious character and vague assumption of guilt and petitions for forgiveness collectively, or — as I said — these face-washing audits that look a little like that wash in the face of Mr. Casado's Sunday chapter — the one about: I've heard the explanations and, now, we've run a lukewarm view and the subject stays there, because you don't stay there. We believe that it is necessary for the Church to involve itself and to collaborate actively and unequivocally with civil justice in clarifying the truth of these cases of abuse, which proceed in the same way to the identification of the pedophiles as well as to the unmasking of those who, on their own initiative or in an organized way, have helped throughout all this time to cover up, protect and even promote these desalmeds. The Church, from its scopes of action, in addition, cannot subtract itself from the vigil of the law. Your leaders must have something clear, in addition. And it is that continued neglect in its fulfilment, such as that of this institution, can also constitute a crime. It must therefore be added to collaboration, to collaboration in order to achieve criminal convictions for the offence of assault and sexual abuse — in cases where possible — that, in addition, since the entry into force of this new Organic Law 8/2021, the full protection of children and adolescents from violence, the Criminal Code has been amended and this time limit has been extended. So these minor victims, and now the older ones, can report these cases not once completed, as before, the majority of the age but up to thirty-five years later. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we believe that, as politicians, we have to be responsible for such a sensitive subject and not to turn this into a daring weapon, because this will not contribute anything to the primordial end, which is truth, justice and reparation for these abused people. We argue that it must be independent and public bodies — not audits by party instance — that carry out a work whose priority objective is to make justice to these children and children who have first seen their trust betrayed by the abuse of themselves and then through the wall of unbelief, silence and misunderstanding on the part of the Church to whom they went looking for a protection that never arrived. I think we should respect, in addition, the right of these victims to choose whether to keep this in privacy and out of the media focus or, on the contrary, the right to share their cases in order to help third people. And besides, as I said, this is not an empty parliamentary debate. We deny this because we defend that we have an obligation to make solutions and mark a starting point for contributing — as it said — to recognition and promoting measures that can help to recover this forgotten reality for decades. It is an attitude that constitutes for us a moral and political obligation towards the whole of society. And we also believe that strict, transparent and effective protocols are needed to prevent these crimes from continuing to be committed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, let's not think this is a thing of the past, let's not think these attacks that these minors suffer, these abuses, they've stayed far away. They're living in reality. The member of the Galego Nationalist Block told of a case of an acquaintance who had suffered this kind of abuse, and I can also recall in less time, to refer myself to the last moments of the practice of my profession, counsel. I had to watch some kids. They called me in a guard — I told you briefly, to see if I have time — to watch a few minor children for an attack. They entered the parish priest's house and attacked him at night, beat him up and robbed him. And then those kids were accused of it and started the investigation. The parish priest came to identify these children — among nine other children — children who attacked him at night and with the light gone off. Suddenly he identified the doubtless three children. And that was a little suspicious, both for the juvenile prosecutor and for the lawyers we were there. And when the hours were spent in the trial -- which are very long -- the mothers broke their sorrows by what their 13-year-olds had done and one of them collapsed and told the truth about the facts. The truth of the facts was that this parish priest was watching the most disadvantaged neighborhoods in the city of Vigo, which was close to it, and for 50 euros he did the greatest barbarities to these children without economic resources. This is reality and we can't forget it and we can't look elsewhere. What happened? For the consequence of this was that, days later, the parish priest was called to declare himself already as an investigator, not a victim. And suddenly, days later -- the version was very contradictory and then the investigation followed -- this parish priest disappeared, it went away. He's gone to Colombia. And so far we don't know anything else. I was until I started working here in Parliament and I couldn't finish this procedure. I've been trying to look in the press, in the media, to see if there was any news from this parish priest. And this parish priest is still in Colombia. Neighborhood didn't know why she was leaving, but nothing else happened. Well that's a reality, and we can't look somewhere else and we don't have to forget. And although it seems very strong what I'm going to say, I deny myself more truncated lives and argue that our children are the most vulnerable people and that they need greater protection. So from institutions we have to do everything possible in relation to pedophilia so that fear begins to change sides. And with nothing else, thank you very much. We will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u180	Thank you, President. Well, it's true — and I've explained to you in detail the director general in the commission last week — that there have been protocols and programs for over 20 years. And BNG, of course, agrees that they are applied, developed and improved resources for these programs — that we should also, perhaps, make a reflection on the results and failures that these programs have by not detecting so many, so many, cases that are growing and all, that are most, that they do not. I believe that some expressions should be avoided that can reinforce this idea of certain relativization and minimization of these serious crimes when some of the members of the Church speak, when it is shown to be a systemic phenomenon, a structural phenomenon. Look, I'm going to read to them what I mentioned earlier, which is July 2021, from these three universities: "Sexual abuse was mostly committed by clergy who knew the previous experiences of ill-treatment by victims, their extreme vulnerability and the absence of a protective context, which allowed them to ensure impunity. What prevailed was the defensive reaction based on denial or minimization of the problem. When it was impossible to deny the existence of cases of abuse, the official response tended to present them as isolated facts or to focus explanations on the search for individual causes, attributeing the abuses to psychopathological outlines of abusers and avoiding the influence of environmental or structural causes." So they're not some cases, they're not isolated cases, they're structural and environmental reasons that cover these crimes, these very serious crimes. If it wasn't clear to them, I'll also read here a piece of the manifesto that the victims made public last week. By the way, Mr. Palomas, one of the promoters of this manifesto, told today in his twitter that he had been insulted, who conspired on his face a few days ago in Valencia precisely for denouncing these serious crimes. This manifesto says: "We demand all political forces that do not use their closeness or interests with the Catholic Church to avoid the question of pederasty. We agree with the creation of a parliamentary committee. We agree that an independent committee is also set up to continue parliamentary work. We call on all political forces to study and collect the best of every international experience so that the Spanish State will cease to be an anomaly at European level and we can finally see our pain acknowledged." This is what the victims are asking us to do. This is what you have been systematically denying — which Mr Fexóo has done in numerous public statements. And we want to ask for a correction here, we want them to apologize for these statements, which they do is minimize, relativize, the seriousness of these facts. [[Applause]] And, of course, the paradox of all this is — you see what position you were in — that first had to come the pope of Rome — and they did not listen — and then the archbishop of Santiago, Julian Barrio — did not listen either — and finally went out publicly yesterday to the Spanish Episcopal Conference and commissioned an audit to an attorney's office. I don't know if this has been the best solution for you, but, I don't know, since yesterday you fell off the road to Damascus and it seems like they're going to change their position, they already think there's an investigation. We suppose you'll want a parliamentary investigation and an investigation, as victims ask, as well as absolutely independent, aside from judicial investigations and what you can do, if you want — that you have all the right, and duty, I would also say — the Church. Look, we want a clear and concrete proposal to be voted on, which is what we are presenting here, with those points I read to you, which is focused on the subject that is being debated at the moment and on what is a great social debate, a social outcry, a great demand for the victims. And, whenever they want, we give all the data they want about all sexual abuse to minors in all areas, without any kind of limit, without any kind of hacking. But that's why we can't accept your amendment, because, besides, you have expressions that I think you should already banish yourself from political speeches, like you keep talking about "craps." Look, this isn't a biblical curse, it's not a divine punishment. I could say what "cra" means in the dictionary: "It follows the sign of a disease or finds out. Physical or moral bias that marks who has it." That's what the Royal Academy Dictionary says, but, well, you don't have to get there. They should banish these expressions, or "deep into research." You don't have to go deep in research, you have to do a rigorous research with specialized personnel, with all the means and with all the consequences, with all the consequences to make justice, to know the truth, to repair that damage and that evil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u182	It is therefore to end the silence, the complicity, the impunity. It is time to listen to the victims, to accompany them, to do justice and to help repair, at least, a part of all the immense evil that has been done — which they have done. Even if it's painful, it's an ethical mandate, it's our duty and we can't -- we can't -- look elsewhere again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u183	Thank you. Do you accept the amendment? [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] I said no? I didn't understand. [[Confirmation by Mr Bará Torres.]] I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u184	After the debate, we proceed to the vote on the non-law proposals. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Caballero, on the drafting by the Galician Council of a protocol that prevents the financial exclusion of Greek citizenship. Is the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group accepted as an addendum? No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we voted it the way it is. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the elaboration by the Galician Union of a protocol that avoids the financial exclusion of Galician citizenship. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 40; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u185	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Sandra Vázquez, on the statement by the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain that a study is needed which is the basis for the elaboration of a state plan against financial exclusion. The amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Sandra Vázquez and fifteen other Members, on the reitegation by the Council of Galicia to the Spanish Government of the need for a study which serves as the basis for the elaboration of a state plan against financial exclusion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u186	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to mental health care. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted in one part — as it adds —. And the replacement of point 4 is not accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the performances that must be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to mental health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u187	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia with regard to the RehaVita evaluation report, the plan for rehabilitation, rental and improvement of access to housing 2015-2020. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the evaluation report of the RehaVita Plan, the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, renting and improving access to housing 2015-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u188	And now we vote... I don't know who took this from the Popular Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] I think it was Balsairo, I think so. We voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group's proposal on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Government of Spain so that the State funds which could not be implemented in the course of April III and the Fourth Rescue Plan for self-employed persons, professionals and companies particularly affected by the crisis of the Covid-19 could be allocated to a new support plan for the year 2022. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and eight other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union before the Government of Spain so that the State funds which could not be implemented in the wake of the Third and Fourth Year's Rescue Plan for self-employed persons, professionals and companies particularly affected by the crisis of the Covid-19 may be allocated to a new support plan for the year 2022. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u189	Finally, we voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Bará, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Parliament and the Government in relation to the investigation into sexual abuse of minors in the Catholic Church and support for victims. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. on the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Parliament and the Government in relation to research on sexual abuse of minors in the Catholic Church and support for victims. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-22-DSPG070.u190	We'll hold the full till tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
