ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified the non-attendance of this plenary by Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And, all the more, we're on the agenda, with the first point, appearances. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u2	The following appearances are accumulated: The opinion of Mrs. Councilor for the Environment, Territory and Living, on his own request, to report on the policies of the Union in the fight against climate change The opinion of Mrs. Councillor for the Environment, Territory and Housing, at the request of the 19 Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to inform and explain for the event on Wednesday, January 26th at the meeting of the Galician Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development at which the meeting was abruptly interrupted to prevent the voting of a proposal on the development of the wind sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u3	To formulate this appearance, therefore, has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I compare today before the House, the request itself, to report on the policies that have been developed by the Council of Galicia in the fight against climate change — and then the BNG will make its explanations, because I do not understand very well the appearance they have requested; then they will explain, in their turn — as well as the steps we will continue to take in the year 2022, in the coming years. It's planning. That's why in my speech I'm going to detail the work done by the German Government to respond to the challenges, a challenge that is climate change, climate and the environment, which undoubtedly constitutes a defining task for this generation and for the next generations. A set of doctors we're looking for to protect, preserve what our Galicia defines as the green capital, the sustainable capital. And I do it right when you're three months old from the summit in Glasgow, COP26, where I had the opportunity to participate by representing Galicia's interests. At this peak we signed the Under2 memorandum of understanding, with which Galicia once again committed itself to working to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions; all with the objective of contributing to maintaining global average temperature increase below and below grade and half. We thus compromise in writing our support for the global climate change targets. To this end, Junta assumed that it will continue to work within the framework of its competences in a coordinated manner with the rest of the signatories of this memorandum, in different ways: the first one, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% in 2030, also being part of the European Union; promoting climate adaptation and resilience; and implementing its own strategies to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. We will continue to make progress on issues of interest to cooperation, such as promoting and integrating renewable sources, reducing industrial emissions, supporting growth and creating green jobs, sustainable mobility and technology for waste reduction, as well as public research and dissemination on climate change. And we fine-tune these commitments because we know what we can do and because Galicia is fully prepared to be an important part of the European Union, a sustainable and respectful Europe around it, and because Galicia has not only experience but also skill in the fight against climate change. And this is how it is because the Galician Union has been fighting climate change for more than twelve years and has been a pioneer in various initiatives. The most important, no doubt, was in 2019, the Welsh strategy of climate change and energy 2050, to shield us from a green Galicia; a pioneering strategy since we were one of the first regions to establish in writing the commitment to achieve climate neutrality as soon as possible. In fact, he has already taken up the commitment of climate neutrality by the year 2050, so, despite getting ahead of time, he has made it in perfect alignment with both the Paris Agreements and the European Green Pact and the European Climate Law. This strategy brings together a first operational plan from 2019 to 2023 and collects a total of 171 measures. It is equipped with an budget of 1,280 million euros. And the latest available data reflect that these efforts made by Galicia show that the Community is contributing above the national average to the fulfilment of Spain's climate and energy objectives with the European Union. That's the path that Galicia is already progressing, which has managed to reduce its emissions by 23.8% since 1990. It goes the right way, that path that we've marked: the year 2030, 55% reduction. With this reduction of -23.8 % the Community of Greece is currently lowering emissions by 32 points above the national average, as the state has positively issued 8.5 % since 1990. Even so, we are very close to reaching the data of the European Union, which has decreased by 28.1%. In this same line, Galicia's ratio of total emissions in Spain continues to decline; it was 10.1% in 1990, it went to 8.3% in 2005 and is already at 7.1%. In fact, in our Community, one of the three that has most reduced its emissions, along with Asturias and Castile-Leon, and in comparison with the Member States of the European Union, the figure is better than that of countries such as Croatia, Belgium, France or Italy, and is slightly below Finland or Sweden. Other significant facts that make the situation in Galicia manifest are that our Community is one of the two, along with Castile-Leon, with more electricity generation of renewable sources. In fact, 76% of Galicia's electricity generation is currently renewable, above Spain, which is 44%, and above the European Union average, which is 28.5%. And the penetration of renewable energy in final energy consumption is 37.8%, also exceeding Spain, which is 18.4%, and the European Union, which is 18.9%. In view of all these figures, our Community is therefore in the middle of the European Union and aligned with the Brussels climate roadmap, and the strategy and operational plan are proving to be an axile instruments for advancing the decarbonisation process to converge on this subject with the European Union. These are the last available data waiting for the following, which will be released in April and will undoubtedly be even better, will be more encouraging, April that computes the data by 2020. In the meantime, since June, we have continued to move forward and formed in 2021 the Interdepartmental Commission of the Climate Change Strategy, a body in which all the departments of the Galician Union are represented. This commission comes with an ambitious objective: that the Union be a neutral carbon administration in 2040, reducing emissions in all its areas and thus setting an example for the rest of the bodies and administrations. For that, we're working on determining what the carbon footprint of the Administration is, that is to say, what the greenhouse gas emissions of the various departments of the Junta de Galicia are, an analysis that is carried out building to identify their dynamics. In addition, the Strategy for Climate Change and its full operational plan in recent years has been advancing and endowed with multiple tools. We approve, on the one hand, the 2030 Circular Economy Strategy, which collects all proposals to extend life to products by recycling at the end of their useful life, to reintroduce them back into the chain of production. Yesterday he was making two visits: one, the King's Hill, one of the seven spaces that were funded by the Galician Union, with more than EUR 173,000, to have spaces for reuse and repair, all one example; another, the Nogals, a clean mobile spot; 53 we already have throughout Galician union funded by the Galician Union and covering up to 100 municipalities. We're working on meeting the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) set by the UN through the 2030 Agenda. For this we launched that interdepartmental commission that I was talking about, where all the departments of the Union are represented and which is responsible for carrying out the diagnosis of this compliance on a regular basis. And we have taken important steps also in the fight against climate change, giving our support to municipalism; what we have a global problem but we have to shorten it locally, a key piece in this area. In this line of work, it deserves special mention of the role that Galicia plays as coordinator of the climate and energy mayor's pact, which is recognized at the summit held in Valencia by the various members of the European Union, which are adhered to, to this pact, a total of 278 municipalities; of these 278 municipalities, 239 already have their approved plan of action. And for that, Junta made an effort, made an investment, 1.6 million euros, to support the municipalities in accession and also in drawing up their action plans. Since July 2021, the pact states that emission reduction targets have to be in line with Europe's provisions, that is, 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, and that's why we have to work together. And Galicia, as it cannot be otherwise, is already taking the steps, being Vilamarin the first municipality to assume this commitment to reduction of emissions, to which other municipalities - Vilar de Santos, Porqueira and Maceda - have now joined, which are in the process of adapting their objectives through their plans. Finally — and no less important — an action that respects the environment, which bets on sustainable development and the circular economy. One must inevitably maintain an active and responsible policy on waste. In Galicia we saw him do so. In recent years we have taken important steps: the momentum of the approval of the Law on Waste and Contaminated Soils, moving ahead one year before the state and being much more ambitious, betting for modern and effective treatment; and in this issue, we highlight the Sogama model, which I already know that some people do not like but that it is a European and also a global reference. The impetus to the management of bioresidues by the Galician Board, with the construction of 4 composting plants in Galicia and the improvement of 13 transfer plants, all of them, or assisted or in bidding, so that they are fully operational in the year 2022 and also in early 2023. And the drafting of new waste plans, both urban and industrial, that this year ends their vigil and in which we are already starting to work. Following the commitments signed in Glasgow three months ago, since the Galician Summit, we have continued to move forward in promoting adaptation and resilience, implementing best practices of modelling and evaluation to compromise the planned climate impacts, especially at the regional level but also at the local level, generating studies, metrics and indicators that help to track progress in reducing the risk of climate change for people, for natural systems, for infrastructures and also for businesses. And for that, we count on the best available technicians, those who work both in Meteogalicia and in the Galician Environment Laboratory. I want to take this opportunity to remember that Meteogalicia has been a referencer of climate since 2000 but also scientific, both at the national and European level. Today there are only three communities with a service as Galicia account; this is the case of Catalonia, it is the case of the Basque Country and it is our own case. Meteogaly has a network of weather observation on earth that currently has 157 log stations, with a total of 1,104 sensors, which allows us to have our data updated every ten minutes, that data that then any citizen, any industry, even the university, can dispose of them free of charge through the corresponding website. Meteogaly, no doubt, is a fundamental part of the fight against climate change, with a large team of professionals and leading infrastructures. In fact, in the coming weeks, we'll be improving the model, where we've been working for a total of two years, which will result in a higher quality of forecasts, which will be done in more detail. The forecast of time, precipitation and temperature, as well as floods or droughts, will be improved by passing a 3-4 km resolution model to only 1 km resolution. The extraordinary Meteogalicia professionals analyze thousands of data, thousands of parameters, which result in reliable predictions and certain conclusions. Right now, that we're talking about a month of very dry January, with a 64% reduction in rains over the last thirty years, the data show that this process also happened in 2017, it was also repeated in 2012, and motivated by the phenomenon La Niña, installed in the Pacific. I don't want to forget either the Galician Environment Laboratory or its professionals, who are a national and international reference to research, but also the monitoring of the environmental parameters surrounding our society. I mean the quality of the air, but I also mean the natural waters and especially the study of the effects of climate change, making the different analyses. This relevance is possible, to a large extent, thanks to investments made also by the Galician Union in recent years, more than 3 million euros, to convert this laboratory into a reference institution, to which we will add half a million euros that will invest more over these two years, 2022 and 2023, to improve energy efficiency in the laboratory building. Thanks to all this human capital, thanks to this experience, in 2021 we made available to the municipalities a new tool, a pioneering technological tool in Galicia to make climate projections at the local level; a key information in the study of the risks derived from climate change and, therefore, to help them develop and design municipal adaptation plans, as well as the various projects to be developed. This is a key tool for providing the medium and long-term availability of weather projections, making us from the most difficult moment to what can be a normal situation, and so local institutions can plan to adapt to possible adverse climate change phenomena; in this way, municipalities can visualize possible climate variations over the last fifty years, but they can also look at the next fifty years. And we completed this work for adaptation and resilience to climate change by collaborating with other entities but also with other organisms, with other autonomous communities. In this line we signed in December 2021 — recently — an agreement with the three Greek universities with the aim of advancing knowledge, prediction and even in some case anticipation of the adverse phenomena of the future of our coast, our rivers and our beaches. With this study we will complete a powerful environmental and socio-economic risk assessment tool, which is important, which will allow us to properly plan the mitigation and adaptation measures of our territory to change in the future. Thanks to this report — which will be ready this year, in 2022 — Galicia will have the capacity and tools to determine what the risks of climate change are on its beaches and estuary, taking into account the special features of our coast. You know we're getting into the Mediterranean climate and Galicia has little or nothing to do with that climate. That's why we needed to have this formalized study with our universities. So identifying this possible risk is a way to move forward, a way to plan, to make decisions in order to increase coastal resilience to climate change. I want to go over now detailing the climate policies that will mark the year 2022 in Galicia, and this is continued, it's not a point apart, it's a point and it's a point and it's followed, a point and it's followed by what we've been doing, what we've developed, and a point and it's followed by what we're going to put on the table. So, this Thursday, we'll raise to the Board a report on the set of measures to be taken in the face of the climate emergency. And we will do this with the primary objective of continuing to commit all the policies of the Galician Union to address the climate situation, so that we will push, among other things, the following measures: to continue the development of transversal actions that enable us to continue to move forward in reducing greenhouse gas emissions; to continue actively involving us in the European Green Pact and its development; to review the 2050 Strategy for Climate Change and Energy to adapt it to the new targets of emissions marked by Europe and the challenges which I also call upon us to receive; to bring to this chamber the Galician Climate Law; and to promote the Galician climate alliance, involving society as a whole in action, but also in decision-making. In fact, next week we will begin the processing of the Galician Climate Law, a document that is born with the challenge of completing the Greek regulatory framework to contribute to the achievement of climate neutrality in the year 2050, taking in addition the actions that drive the reduction of 55% of European Union emissions by 2030 from the 1990s. The Galician Climate Act aims to establish a new general order of priorities in politics, economy and industry, but also in everyday life, in line with the level of international concern for climate change. Among other issues, this law will recognize Galicia's climate as a subject of rights and will shape in a normative text the declaration of ethical principles in relation to the climate change of UNESCO 2017. It will be framed in the 2030 Agenda targets and will take into account green innovation, which has to be closely related to equity but also to social justice. It will include concern about the long-term sustainability of the Greek social system and which is responsible for future generations. It will be based on the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050 and will seek to accelerate the way to ensure the preservation of natural resources and the recovery and strengthening of the Greek economy. It will be wagered by a sustainable industrial and technological sector, the deployment of renewable energies, the achievement of energy efficiency, the development of sustainable mobility and the rebalancing and evaluation of ecosystem services in rural areas. Finally, a law that guarantees a good life from respect to ecological limits, promoting a steady growth in which one is betted by an orderly transition, but also by a fair transition. In fact, in my participation in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Glasgow, I used to meet with representatives from different regions that are part of the Under2 Coalition, with the aim of enriching this rule with closeness and also with experience. Finally, bearing in mind that the fight against climate change and its effects is a question on which we all must involve ourselves, in this 2022 we will encourage with the social and economic agents the creation of the Galician Alliance for Climate, as a network of organizations involved in the fight against climate change, the improvement of the environment and the momentum of a circular and sustainable economy, and with which we hope to respond in conjunction with the challenges of climate change and we aim to protect, maintain, improve, what we are to be that natural capital called Galicia, as well as to protect health, which is fundamental, and the well-being of citizens in the face of environmental risks and effects. This alliance will invite companies, professional associations, trade unions who want to take advantage of the opportunity that commitment to the environment is telling us and is calling on us to be together, for the differentiation of new products and services, with an end, the environment, and therefore health, by making known their way of producing more sustainable, thus helping to unlink global economic growth to environmental degradation. The alliance will also be open to environmental NGOs who want to provide their experience in environmental engagement practices, sustainable production and better management of natural resources. And finally, they'll have the scientific and academic organizations that bring their knowledge in the improvement of environmental techniques and public administrations involved. Among the objectives of this partnership are to advocate for the environmental commitment of the different organisations and companies that integrate them; to visualize the commitment of the Greek organisations to the environment; to define the priority of the strategies and common initiatives to resolve the main environmental issues; to promote initiatives to improve the environmental performance of organizations and share these good practices with society; to realize public recognition of involvement in the improvement of the environment; to identify factors, knowledge gaps and management that hinder the organisations or entities from taking on and developing such environmental commitment; and to provide tools to small and medium-sized enterprises and local entities so that they can actively integrate into the partnership and improve the environment of all their processes. The forecast is to launch the Galician Climate Alliance in 2022. The first step will be to draw up the commitment document, which will be ready in the first quarter. Among other issues, this alliance will include the creation of a technical office to channel and advise work and create a prize to best environmental practices. To finish, I pretended that since June we have been working hard to consolidate Galicia as a reference to consciousness and respect for the environment. So I put the manifesto in Glasgow: Galicia can and wants to be part of the solution to the problem of climate change and be a leading actor at the national and global level. In fact, we are currently among the most proactive and advanced communities in Spain with regard to the design and approval of our own roadmap on climate change. And that's where we're going to be working in the year 2022, a year that will be marked by two fundamental features. These will be the first Law of Galicia's climate, which will complete the normative framework in this matter, and the launch of the Galician Climate Alliance, in which we want to involve all the Greeks and the Greeks and, of course, also the different political groups, because we are convinced that achieving it will also be a fully sustainable society, which is the only guarantee of the future, which is the best legacy we can leave to the young people and girls in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u5	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Green Propaganda Counsellor, first of all, you come to speak to us about the policies of the Union in the fight against climate change and, secondly, that you, however far behind your appreciation on this subject, about your startling at the last meeting of the Galego Environment Council, where you were going to talk about the wind theme; and you rose from that advice which you chaired and escaped directly. First of all, with regard to the theme of the Galician climate change policy, the problem is that you come to talk about something that does not exist, because there is no Greek climate change policy beyond propaganda; there is no -- that's reality. The only policy to combat climate change in the Union is to attribute the merit of the decline in emissions caused solely and exclusively by the closure of the thermal power stations of the Bridges and Meirama. You — yes, Counsellor — are successful in reducing emissions from the closure of the Greek thermal power plants while criticizing the closure of those power stations and blaming the State Government specifically for the closure of the Bridges, by the way, when they know that the Government has done absolutely nothing to close the bridge power plant and that it was exclusively a market decision of the Endesa company. But the case is that while they blame the government for closing the bridge power station, they suck at the reduction in emissions from the bridge and Meirama closure, as if you had some merit in that emission reduction. In fact, according to your own public statements, if it were for you, the power stations would not have closed and, therefore, in Galicia today, there would not be any reduction in emissions compared to 1990. And I know that the bridge power station has temporarily reopened. But I ask you: how can you criticize the closure of the bridge power plant and say that coal must continue to be burned in Galicia, as they have repeatedly done, but at the same time draw on this reduction of emissions in 2019 matching the closure of the thermals? Because The Bridges produced, burning coal, about 15% of Galicia's total energy. Meirama produced, burning coal, something more than 5% of that energy. In total, they produced 20% of the energy that Galicia consumed, 24% of emissions. And that of the Bridges, by the way, was one of the 20 most polluting power stations in Europe. We don't have to explain that when these two power stations are closed, burning coal through a tube, Galician emissions are getting better at a stroke; specifically in 2019, which is the year they take as reference, a barbarity, 24%, which is exactly the discharge of emissions from which you claim, but it has absolutely nothing to do with the politics of the Union, unless they say it was you who closed the thermals. And the reduction in emissions in 2019 has nothing to do with its policy, because the Union was precisely advocating that the thermals should not be closed and, therefore, the Union was in favour of continuing to burn coal in Galicia. So talking about the fight against climate change on the part of the Union is a joke, talking about fighting about climate change on the part of the Union is a joke and talking about fighting about climate change on the part of the Union is a joke to citizenship. I'm telling you more: there is not a single minimally effective and significant measure put in place by Mr. Feijóo's Government to fight climate change. If it's not true what I'm saying, I encourage you to tell me a single significant measure set in motion by the Board and tell me how and in what proportion this measure has contributed to the fight against climate change, not what you've just done -- infinitive as "continue", "follow", "impulse", "revise" and generalities like the ones you've just transmitted here -- but something specific, measurable, real and meaningful. The fact is that in the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change, published just in 2019, you set a reduction target for 2030 of 24.6%, specifically on page 34 of your page, just because you were counting on what around 2030 they would close the Welsh thermals. But it turns out that the same year that you set that target, 2019, they just shut down the thermals, and the closing of the thermals means the reduction in one year of that 24% that you set as a target by 2030. So you go to the Glasgow Climate Conference and tell the press that the Union is increasing its target by 55% by 2030. As the previous target was distorted, they increased the target. And the truth is, too, that you don't even have the most remote idea of how much emissions are going to be lower by 2030 in Galicia, but you say 55%, not only because 24% has gone wrong, but also because the director of the Spanish Climate Change Office announces at that same conference that Spain will raise its own target to 55%. Then Galicia says, 'cause we're the same. That's the rigor of the Union. As the State Government sets a percentage, it increases its percentage, you raise your percentage to draw. Even though they say they're more ambitious -- we don't know why -- the case is that you're more ambitious, besides leaders and vanguards, and I don't know how many things. And they don't say they're prettier for obvious reasons and because they'd sing a lot. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is you went to COP26... because I'd sing a lot, I say I'd sing a lot. Of course I'm not saying you're not very handsome. You're very handsome, but I'd sing a lot to say they're the most beautiful ones, which is what the body asks them to do. And not... to all of you... I'm saying you don't dare say that you're the most beautiful people because you'd sing a lot. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u8	Well, the truth is, you went to the COP26 in Glasgow to waste time and waste public money, because it's an intergovernmental conference at the state level where an autonomous community paints little. And you were in Glasgow taking a picture as an observer changes one of the many meetings there. Which served them to issue a press release saying Galicia enters the global climate leadership and commits itself to reducing emissions to keep the global temperature below 1.5 degrees. What a headline! Galicia enters the global climate leader. Look, Counsellor, the latest IPCC report says that limiting the rise of temperatures to 1.5 degrees would require unprecedented social and global changes, and it considers it very difficult, but not impossible, to keep within 1.5 degrees. There is even some part of the scientific community that already considers it impossible to stay below 1.5 degrees. But a set of climate negationists and green propagandists says they're going to keep us under 1.5 degrees. I suppose it's resorting to the divine intercession of the Archbishop of Santiago. That's why Mr Feijóo seems to me wrong with the investigation commission on the sexual abuse of the Church, because he's going to put his hand on that church in the fight against climate change. On the subject of his startling meeting of the Galego Environment Council, which was going to discuss the wind issue, within less than a year and a half, there were three rulings from the TSXG, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which cancelled authorizations from wind farms, putting great revolvers, huge revolvers, in these authorizations. [[Murmurs.]] One, less than a month ago, says that the reduction to half the deadline for public consultation of the environmental impact of a park in Corme that you have agreed is clearly contrary to Spanish and European law. A second says that an environmental authorization that you gave in 2005 expired when more than a decade later, and therefore cancels the authorization you gave in Mr. Fraga's last government. A third sentence says that the authorization you gave for a park in Mondoñedo is null because it covers an irregular fragmentation of two parks that are actually one and also because the impact on cultural heritage, the landscape and acoustic impact, and the impact on important water resources were not valued. Those three judgments of the High Court of Justice are examples of legal conflict, which you are exacerbating with your inaction and incompetence, which joins social conflict, to the point of being paralyzing the process of wind development in Galicia, with demonstrations and protests in many municipalities, which you only aggravate with your permanent chalice on the wind theme, including nine modifications of Galicia's wind law, of 2009, almost one year by year. The situation has reached such a point that in December last year a report prepared by the Galician Council of Culture has put a great deal of earring on them, because it basically says that you are responsible for preserving the environment and cultural heritage and that they are not doing so. What do you do as president of the Galego Environment Council when your members present a motion on the subject of wind? To walk away, to avoid debate, escape and escapism, joined by the chapuza and the legislative legal insecurity, as the only response from the board to such an important topic as the wind. To conclude, there was an agreement of this chamber based on a Socialist Group's GNP to declare the climate emergency in Galicia in the middle of November 21, 2021. It's been three months and we don't know anything about the fulfilment of that agreement and the Declaration of Climate Emergency that has been made by the state and most autonomous communities. They are repeatedly in breach of the agreements of this chamber. How will they be able to meet that new target of 55% reduction by the year 2030? What credibility does a set of indoor climate negationists and green propagandists have to promise that reduction? What credibility do you, Madam Counsellor, have in econoscture when your policy against climate change is unique and exclusively to attribute the merit of reducing emissions motivated by the closure of thermals at the same time as they criticize and oppose the closure of the same thermals? Nothing else and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u9	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u10	Good morning. Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, or of little environment, or of no environment, today you really seem to be the innovation advisor, because he came here to innovate. It turns out that on the agenda there are two appearances, two issues of their appearance: one propaganda that made us here, by car, and another one, a request for BNG's appearance to give you explanations of that spooky, this abrupt closure of the meeting of the Galego Environmental Council, made by you. And it turns out that you, innovating, are asking for BNG to appear, asking for information and explanations from BNG. This is unheard of, isn't it? [[Applause]] Do you have to explain to the BNG what happened, what you caused at that meeting of the Galician Environment Council? Look, this is a joke, this is a coat of hair and a lack of respect for this parliament. You're the one who has to explain, Counselor, not the group that's asking you to attend. In any case, I'm going to read to him what the associations who suffered this veto say to the debate and the vote on a proposal or two proposals that were held that day on January 26th, for a vote on the Yellow Council of the Environment. It is specifically a matter that was included in the agenda, to vote on how wind projects should be handled, the need to make a strategic environmental assessment of the wind sector plan, how they were being approved, with fragmentations of projects, and also to inform and develop proposals on sustainability issues, and they call for a vote on the preparation by the Galician Council of the Environment of a report on the current fit of the energy model in the sustainability and resilience of the Greek territory. And you personally raised the meeting at this point, preventing the vote on these two issues and even considering the last item on the agenda, which was the point that I had to deal with with with petitions and questions. It was literally like this, Counselor. You held the meeting before it was over to ban the debate on this issue. [[Applause]] You just talked here about your green propaganda, about your trip to Glasgow, three months later, where you did a photographic session, because little more we saw in the press; you didn't even report any more; you were put there next to some panels, you were doing some meetings, you attended a conference in the audience and they took pictures and they were so cool that they were there... at last, actually, coming here three months later, telling us what you told us today, you really came here to give a press round by making some announcements, because you have no balance, nothing to explain and figure out here what they did. You're all they do is not fight against climate change, Junta is really a great factory of climate change and environmental emergency. And you assume, indeed, of the 23.8% reduction in emissions, which is a reduction that takes place in 2019, an abrupt fall, by the closure of the thermals, Counsellor. Don't come here to count milongas. This has nothing to do with the policies carried out by the Union, it has to do with the industrial desertification of the country and the closure of the thermals. And you actually criticize the closure of the thermals and assume the reduction of emissions. It can't be for both sides, Counselor, but nothing for the government's own action, but for the closure of those large CO2 stations. [[Applause]] And see if they're clear. One thing is mitigation policies, which are international policies, international agreements which in the case of Galicia are from the European Union, which oblige Galicia and the Spanish State to comply; that is why you have to change the strategy of climate change, because it has been absolutely out of line, apart from that it is a completely empty document — I have it here —. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] You gave here a number of investments in this strategy — a thousand I don't know how many millions —. Do you know what is the main game on this page that I have here of investments in the Strategy against Climate Change? Do you know what is the main one? 250 million, firefighting, Counselor. [[Applause]] This is their main policy against climate change: to put out fires, because they have the German mountain turned into a large fuel extension to burn. This is your main policy, it's here in official documents, 250 million. So what are they telling us? And then, in the face of mitigation, there are adaptation policies, which are the sectoral policies that need to be done to adapt to climate change. But for that, the main thing is to have good studies and good reports of the evolution of the situation, which you don't have. You know why? Because if we look at the board page, the Gaia page, about environmental information, the latest reports are from 2015. And here a major study was done in 2008, the Cligal project, which was fully parked. Since then, we don't have that information and tracking data made by a team from the colleges of Greece to get all that information and follow-up on reality. And now you come here with ads, twelve years after they've dismantled that project. That's the reality. You have to have data, you have to have information and you have to have studies, and you have to act in different areas, which you're not doing, but you do the opposite. Because you're the agents of climate change, it's the agents, the delegates, the representatives, the branch of the big companies, who also boast that they're very green, that they're green capital, that they're green capitalism, and what Galicia comes about is to rob and do business, nothing more, Counsellor, and you open their doors to them, raise their carpets, you change their laws to their own extent to facilitate that policy, that wind predation. That's what you do, that's what you do. Well, and that's not what we're saying, because we could quite rightly say it, and we have data and arguments. Look, this says the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, with three judgments, the last of the Corme Park; you violated Community directives and the Environmental Assessment Act. What else do you have to tell him, Counselor? They are violating the law to facilitate the processing of wind farms and the High Court of Justice has annulled this wind park, where, moreover, you — and I have here also the report, the declaration of environmental impact assessment — committed the trolley of destroying a seasonal pond, a priority space for the European Union, where they literally — they sang there last week — literally on top of a mill, in this pond, counselor lady, literally on top; excavation and explanation is literally on the lake. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] And you know what they did in the environmental impact statement? Request measures to monitor and monitor the impact. But they did this next to the pond, Counselor. Look, look, a three-foot, four-square-square-meter excavation to build a windmill on a pond. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] If you treat the media that way, how do you want to fight climate change? Because wetlands, ponds, storms are essential to prevent climate change. [[Applause]] You are—literally—degrading, destroying, crushing. Because you're also paralyzing the expansion of the Natura Network. Natural heritage, biodiversity is fundamental to preventing climate change. And in 2012 there was a forecast to expand the Natura Network to 15%, which we considered insufficient, that we asked for 20%, as all the international directives say, and you paralyze it. And there are many spaces that are now being destroyed by wind projects: the lake of Alcayan, in Coristanco; the bellies of the God, in Aranga. [[Applause]] Look, in the God's only brains, there are more than forty wetlands, which should be protected, all the spiders should be protected, and you paralyzed that enlargement. Why? Because there are great economic interests of those of you who are representatives of green capitalism to rock, to climb our mountains, to our valleys, Counselor. [[Applause]] And that's not worth it. And of course, you come here talking about being the green capital. Of course — I've told you many times — in advertising and propaganda, I'm a crack, to want to get through what I'm not. You are the agents not of the green capital, but of the predatory green capitalism that is tearing down our territory, because you don't protect it, because it was easy to protect that 15%, 18%, 20% and leave it free from that voracity, this voraxine, that wind and forest robbery, energy, mining. [[Applause]] And you didn't do it, when, moreover, at that time they approved an additional provision in the Law of the wind sector that literally said that in those spaces of expansion of the Natural Network there could not be made wind farms, and what they did was paralyze, not the wind parks, but paralyze the expansion of the Nature Network. That's the reality. So, Counselor, less bluff, less green-washed, less green-painted than both policies. Now we come with an announcement of a law against climate change, but you're late, there are already three communities in the state that have a law of climate change, seven that have approved projects and projects. Don't come here with what are the pioneers, who are the most advanced, who are the world leaders. Galicia goes to Glasgow! [[Applause]] And you have the nerve to say they're in world leadership, because they've entered an organization called "Under Two Degrees." There's no reason to say it in English; "Under two," it's so easy, you can say it in English. But it sounds better to put it in English, I know, at last; for you, not for us. So, it's not worth going there to sign, go there to take some pictures, you have to make real policies. You're the government of tons of propaganda to try to make reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u12	In addition, you are the governments of the spin gates, of Greenalia, of Ecoener, where they place their representatives to facilitate later approval and processing of the projects. I remind you of the partner who sat next to you at the board of directors, who is now doing when you approved many of the projects that your company is benefiting from; rotational doors; just like Ecoener. [[Applause]] You are the Government serving the great economic powers of Iberdrola, Naturgy, Ence, Abanca, and against the majority social...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u14	...that he is rebelling against you, all over the country, with full accords of the Town Councils, also of the People's Party Town Councils. You're a terminating government, I'm a threat to the territory, to the middle, to... it's in English, yes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u16	...for biodiversity and climate, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u18	Terminator, or, if you prefer, exterminator.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u19	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u20	But accumulated, time is the same for both, you know. No, no, they have another shift later. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, to apologize, Mr. Aranguena, if my presence is not of his liking, but I believe that his comment, made by any other, is out of place. And, above all, tell you, Mr. Arunguena, that since you've passed to the defense, instead of being on the front, you feel a little more nervous and a little more aggressive; you try to control yourself with respect to the members of this chamber. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, if I were asked for a conclusion, already to the thread of this counsellor's appearance, about the crisis that triggered the coronavirus, one of the many, of course, I think it would emphasize above all the consequences of globalization and the need to be prepared, as we have to be, to confront these pandemics with which we live. Because globalization, as much as we don't want, will affect the last corner of the planet and our Earth. And climate change is a contrasting fact of what we can't escape or isolate ourselves, because the action of the human being will have its mark next to us. But that's why, from the Government, we're not going to be or you're not going to be in cross arms, on the contrary. Greater effort must be made to make that footprint as weak as possible in Galicia. But not only in Galicia, so that from Galicia we can help the state to be smaller, on the continent and even in the world. That is why, first of all, I would like to thank you from the People's Parliamentary Group, who is now before this plenary, the Environment, Territory and Living Councillor, particularly — I repeat and I note — for his own request. The request itself is because he comes to speak and to give his face, Mr Aranguena and Mr Bará, because you are always with the same speech, that is the question, that you are not listening, because you are referring to the speech that was spoken about this matter in December 2020, the same; in November 2021, the same; go and refer to them, the same paragraphs, up to the same order. But the advisor today comes to talk about policies that develop her department against climate change and measures to curb its consequences. And that's why I'm going to point out, because we've just heard what the opposition groups have just thrown out, which always go through other corridors, where you're obviously interested in, but they expose, over and over again -- I insist -- their very static, immobilist and catastrophic speech, bad that they don't care to hear it. And I remind them to listen to yourselves, and if not, I have the interventions in writing and I will very kindly pass them, which always say the same thing. What did we just hear? That we are anchored in the past; on behalf of Mr Aranguena — well, no matter what — that there is no single measure — go to your speech. On behalf of Mr Bará, nothing new in his speech but the script that passes to his group to applaud him, even with the moments of applause, because he is the only one who comes to prove himself. That's right. Challenge, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is what you come to talk about and what the advisor spoke about today in this plenary. The advisor said it very clearly: the fight against climate change and therefore the conservation of our environment is one of the greatest challenges we face. And I say bigger, because I've already said it at the beginning of the intervention, that health is the greatest thing we have, and it's worth nothing if we don't have a planet to live on. Challenge said the advisor, but he also talked about generations, because it's not a job for a warrant or for four, but it's a job that has to occupy the many generations that follow us. That's why our duty is to protect and preserve the environment. The sustainable and green Galicia, yes, green, neither propaganda nor anything, is the real Galician we enjoy the Greeks and the Greeks. Even though opposition groups are not doing well, the Greek Government has been working in the front line of work for 12 years and is a pioneer, as always, bad for them, in many initiatives, as the advisor reminded us. Thus, the example of the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, which converted Galicia, three years ago, into the first region in writing to leave its commitment to advance in climate neutrality; 171 measures, 1.3 billion measures and a 2019-2023 operational plan. Your Honor, it's years of work, of course. On the contrary, it would be impossible for Galicia in three decades to have a reduction of about 24% of greenhouse gas emissions, which we are above the national average, which we are moving towards international targets, as the European Union's intention to achieve that emissions decrease by 55% in 2030 or that more than 56% of the electricity generation in Galicia comes from renewable energy sources, far above Spain and even Europe. Less gas emissions, renewable sources and, above all — something that Mr Bará does not like at all — which is the strict policy in waste management, in which we will also have the opportunity to speak today. And — as it is not! — that Sogama model which is so pro- you, which is European reference and international reference. But the Galician Union does not stay there, but it also advances itself to equip the Greeks and the Greeks with a Law of contaminated waste and soil; it promotes the management of bioresidues, with four new composting plants, and already has bids those urban and industrial waste plans, whose vigilance ends this year. What are we talking about, gentlemen? In doing so, also listening, also sharing experiences and, above all, committing. That's why I want to take this opportunity to publicly congratulate counsellor Ánggeles Vázquez, for her participation three months ago, if — but we still haven't had the opportunity to congratulate her from this plenary — at this XXVI United Nations Conference on Climate Change, held in Glasgow. And there was Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, and very proud that we had to be because there was Galicia, but not as mere observer. In Scotland, and in front of the international community, the German Government has committed itself to continuing to work to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions — let us remember: 55% less in 2030 — to prevent the average global temperature from rising above the level and half. A planet where the temperature goes no further than that degree and half as the only habitable setting for mankind, which is playing the last chance to change the course of things; and so said the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antony Guterres. A scenario, that of global growth, which will also be avoided from Galicia with other actions driven by the Environmental Council, such as the promotion of adaptation and resilience to climate, sustainable mobility, the use of technologies, research or the awareness of society. Because this is not only a government task, here we all play a decisive role: public administrations, implementing all kinds of projects and actions; citizens, awareness of the gravity of the problem and acting accordingly to curb climate change; and parliaments — like ours — legislating to equip administrations and citizens with clear and concise rules to preserve our environment. For here in Parliament will be the advisor in the coming months to present to this chamber the Galician Climate Law, whose preliminary draft we hope to debate at the end of the year or at the beginning of the next; the first standard of these characteristics to which Galicia will count, a standard — to note using the words of the councillor himself — that will have as a complementary challenge or complete the Greek regulatory framework to contribute to the achievement of climate neutrality in 2050. The fight against climate change needs a change of priorities, in the political, economic, social and in particular, and that change of priorities is what the Government of Galicia pursues with the Climate Law. By the way, I have another question that you, Counsellor, have commented on, when you recalled that in Glasgow you had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the Under 2 Coalition regions — because we are multilingual, Mr Bará — to enrich this rule with your closeness and experiences. The Climate Law will be one of the successes of this performance of that council for this year 2022. But this year 2022 we have heard that it will be decisive in many issues relating to climate change and the environment, how to bring this set of measures to the Board this week, which I hope you will be able to detail so that these opposition groups can be made clear. Keep that active involvement in the European Green Pact, because the climate is changing and you cannot always follow the same line of work. We also need to review this Welsh strategy of climate change and energy, to adapt it to our emission targets marked by Europe. And, of course, it is — I repeat — to involve above all, to involve us in pushing this Gallega Alliance for Climate. Nor do you have to say, Counsellor, that since this People's Parliamentary Group will have all our support for the best development of the strategic lines that I propose today with objective markings already by this year 2022 in a basic area to guarantee life. Climate change is an environmental problem of great magnitude, which is having and will have a significant overall impact on many aspects of human activity: agriculture, tourism, energy, coastal areas and even health. After listening to her, Counsellor, this parliamentary group is clear that the year 2022 will be a decisive year, a key year, in which climate change policies refer. In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, this People's Parliamentary Group is a party to the solution and we invite you to join it as well. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Orange, you can imagine that your insults to me, to us, to women, are genuine praise. And I was brought up to be educated, and I hope to be able to do this to those who represent Galicia, who are the three groups here that we are present, and I hope that my children will follow. [[Applause]] Seriousness and respect, but I also work for the Greeks and for the Greeks. We're talking about climate change, we're talking about strategies, we're talking about more than 100 people who are up to date with scientific data that are marking the pattern; the pattern that we then decide by politicians in one way or another, but always on a basis, which seems to you to be nobody. All my respect and all my support for the more than 100 people who work in Meteogalicia, the Environment Laboratory and the corresponding general direction, which are those who mark the guidelines, and therefore, thanks to them, we have a strategy of climate change and a strategy of circular economy, and thanks to them we will also have the Climate Law. Having said this, there would be many things in which I should answer you, and we hope you can do them all. The first is that in April this year, the data for the year 2019 and 2020 — because we are going with two delays — will be released, and therefore the conclusion of the closure of Meirama and Les Pontes will be released in April this April. It doesn't come from this data, it's not 23.8% reduction, see if you find out; that's first. Second, you say we don't know where we're going. We always talk about fair ecological transition, fair transition; that is, we eliminate coal when we have another alternative. And you know what the minister of the Ecological Transition did? First, we closed all the bridges and then they turned to the Environmental Council so that the technicians in the corresponding management could re-enable so they could re-burn coal in Galicia. That was done by his minister, not by the German Government. So feeling and wisdom was what we asked for from the very first moment. And we keep going, we can keep talking. And you tell me I went on tour to Glasgow. Look, on a walk, Mr. Sánchez goes this week to a geothermal plant in Almería, and you know what he's using? The Falcon, the Falcon, which contaminates a lot more... than going anywhere else, including any plane. [[Murmurs.]] But that's not all, Mr. Sanchez. It is that, for example, on one of the trips you have recently made, Gijón — he also comes to Galicia — there are acts in which there are up to 590 official diesel cars. That's what the Government is doing right now. Then you'd better be careful. Mr Bará, you will never change, always the same mantra, always the terminator; and, if not terminator, they are the turning doors; and, if not, we open the door to those companies that are defending everything. But look, do you know who authorized the windmills on Nature Network? The windmills on Natura Network authorized us to the Bipartite. Yes, yes, gentlemen of the BNG. [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter is that they hurt a lot and they don't want to recognize it, but there's the files. This government has not authorized any windmills on the Natura Network. On the other hand, they say to see if we preserve the territory. Don't you know that 77% of the territory is shielded by the windmills in Galicia? And it's shielded thanks to that sector plan that Galicia has in place, which is the only community that has it. But we can keep sinking. We're sinking. And what if I tell them — because it is good for all Galicia to know what their behavior is — that BNG and PSOE are voting for predatory laws of renewables? It's going to be so bad for you, isn't it? Well, you know what you approved, along with the PSOE? 'Cause they didn't vote against it, Mr Bará; what happens is that they say one thing here and in Madrid they say another thing, when there's a digitade one thing and elsewhere the other one.' Approval: State standard, Royal Decree 23/2020 of 23 June, so energy measures and other areas are approved for economic reactivation relating to the expiry of access permits, and which regulates measures to order a high amount of applications for access to the electricity grid of renewable energy installations to obtain the IAD before 25-12-2021. Do you know who voted that, Mr. Bará? You guys. And why don't they say so? Don't surprise me! That's what you voted for. And you know what the People's Party asked? [[Applause]] Planning, because you also voted moratorium, because you didn't say "no" to that moratorium. I mean, in the whole mix of windmills entering Galicia you've been hand in hand with the PSOE, and don't say no. In the end, we'll have to spread it and then they don't know what I'm talking about; they'll repeat it again: Royal Decree Law 23/2020 of June 23, there are the votes of the BNG, there are the votes of the PSOE too. We ask for moratorium, and not just moratorium; we ask for quiet planning, that planning that Galicia must have, because the macroeconomics of what you're talking about, which is processing us and moving us, is not the Government of Greece, which has a sectoral plan, but is the Government, which in this case is the PSOE of the hand of the BNG and with a ministry that is that of Ecological Transition. And I could keep talking to him. Look, preserving the territory is sanctioning, sanctioning the electrics, sanctioning the Confederation. And you're also very quiet, both PSOE and BNG. He gave them just as they had opened the windows, which had emptied all the reservoirs in a moment, in the summer, in which the light was more expensive. And the Confederation said it wasn't your responsibility, it's by law. And the BNG asked for responsibilities here. Where you had to go, you went to Congress, but you don't dare, and you don't dare because you want to be partners with different governments. And in view of that, the Galician Union sanctioned the Confederation, but it also sanctioned the hydroelectrics. That's how the Galician Council acts, and that's how it acts. But we can keep moving, and within that progress, tell them that when they talk about spooky, I'm not going anywhere. But you're inviting me to commit an irregularity. First of all, what I'm going to do is give the Cogamad's agenda to the presidency. By the way, in three years I've been in the council, I've met Cogamad nine times; these nine times have approved six repertoire plans of use and management of the different natural parks and the Galician National Park; that you've gathered it six times and still above was packaged, and here it was work. And thanks to those meetings and thanks to the work of all those who make up Cogamad — who I owe them all my respects and also do a great job, but we often do not agree, and here there is no coincidence, because you can't talk about it -- because, thanks to that, we have a master plan of uses and management in the Atlantic Islands, in Mount Aloia, in the Lastra, in the Winterfell, in Corrubedo and the last one in the Juries, and now we're working for the strawberries of the Eume. But we're going to the point of appearance, which, you know, I wanted to go, go and I don't look. Oh, my God! Subject: convening of the ordinary session of the Galego Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development. First point: adoption, if applicable, of the minutes of the previous session; second point: draft decree 2021 so that the decree is amended and, therefore, the Board of Trustees will adopt the Management Plan of the Lower-Serre Park Nature Limit of the Jurés; third point: wind energy, environmental processing. And there the staff of the council went; on the front, the chief of staff, who is both with a government and with another one, one lord -- which I see on top of someone giving him the head -- which is what he has the greatest knowledge in Galicia of environmental processing. But there was nothing to vote on, eh! is that there is no point here to vote on. It's just that I didn't get scared, that the meeting ended from the moment I said whether there were any technical questions, which seems to be that there was none. But how do you think reports are made to install propellers rather than technical ones? Or were the politicians who made those reports with you? In our case, no. [[Applause]] There was no technical doubt and then I said whether there were political doubts. Political doubts seem to me to have answered them. And I'm not the competent, the German Government, the energy planning, nor the installation of the wind. And if not, there's that real decree that you voted for, for that imminent speed, so that in the year 2021 we have these paths where everyone is saturated, but also in the year 2022. Planning is central government, and I commit myself, to the members of Cogamad, which would be transferred to the Ministry of Ecological Transition. And that's how I'm going to do it. So that there wouldn't be any doubt, I'll move the agenda to the presidency. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser gives a document to Mr. President.]] Having said this, I continue, and I keep talking about what it brings us here today. And today bring us here to be united in something paramount. On behalf of Mr. Aranguena, there is already a negationism that nothing can be done. You can do, and much. And so we're demanding from different industries the best available techniques, and for that we have a number of inspectors, a total of 25. And believe me, the Galician industry is fulfilling, and when it doesn't meet that Welsh industry, it's sanctioned. But also to work for a law. Mr. Bará told me we were going off. Well, I'm going to tell you, we're going to go very slowly, but Catalonia has the law, it has no strategy. We have to start at the beginning, because we have a base. What happened to the law? Well, he went through the state and then neither forward nor backward. And you know why? Because first it's the strategy, and since you have the strategy, then there's the law. So we're on time, we're going on time and we're going to keep working on this line. We're going to continue working on this line with transparency. Transparency is to have 20 screens across Galicia. By the way, the Coruña citizens don't have the information in the center of the Coruña because the municipality doesn't give us the land they need to have the information they breathe in day to day. But we want to be transparent. So we have 20 screens installed where everyone knows the quality of the air. But not only that, but we have 34 others in the industries and every ten minutes we know what these industries emit and the air quality of those industries. And we'll go further. We have 15 weather stations, 15 ponds and 1 more mobile. That's the reality. And so, with that transparency and that continued work, we will achieve those goals that we want to achieve and that we can achieve. And we can get it because we have to keep moving. And to move forward is to be next to the future and also to be next to technology. Of course, we'll continue to talk to the Galego Environment Council; it'll only be missing. We will continue to summon him and with those summons that eventually yield their fruits. And the next fruit has to be the approval of the Rector Plan for Uses and Management of the only thing we lack, which are the strawberries of the Eume. The more things we could talk about. And within these matters, tell them that there are claims, of course. That the demand made by the Environment Council, the demand made by the Galician Council is a planning, a central government planning, a planning that does not lead to errors. Because here it's true that you talked about judgments, but the judgments can be valued, right? 99.9 % of the judgments give reason to Galician Union. And maybe there's something that doesn't give you the reason, which, by the way, is reversible and has to be traced. But I'll also tell you, Mr. Aranguena, Mr. Perfect, and perfection is done where you're taking it, very precious from the door to get out quickly. That's his perfection. [[Applause]] When there are errors, you can also learn from those errors. And, therefore, if there were any, it would have been taken care of. Here we don't run, here we tell the truth to the citizenry, because it's the way to have a fairer Galicia, and next to the Justice is also that greener Galicia. And there is no propaganda, Mr Bará, here are facts. And the facts are shown with data. Data like, for example, that made me the last time I was here was said to be the bioresidue strategy that again. But what's the mantra, but what's this about? Then do it. Greek organic recovery network, 3 bioresidue plants: Vilanova, 15 million euros, adjudicated; Cervo, 6.3 million euros, adjudicated; Verín, 6.6 million euros, adjudicated. 6 new transfer plants, Mr Bará, because, of course, waste must be treated. The Lama, 1.1 million euros, assisted; Curtis, 1.1, UTE... — I would tell you what the UTE was; if you wanted, I tell you, because there is also always dark in the adjudications of companies; ATE Cartago; see if you know it; the previous one was Copcisa—, assisted; Cee, 1.4 million euros, adjudicated; Ponticeso, 1.1 million euros, adjudicated; Arbo, in tender; Riotorto, in drafting the project. And I can still say seven transfer plants. Adaptation, Mr Bará, to comply with the European guidelines, to comply with the Galician Waste Act, 2023. Implantation of the brown container, Lugo and Narón, 452,000 euros in tender; Sileda and San Cibrao das Viñas, 359,000 euros in tender; Vigo, 366.000 euros in tender; The Porriño, 798.000 euros in tender; The Rue, 732.000 euros in tender. The total, 39.8 million euros. This is the work that the Galician Union does, this is the work that the council does. This is the seriousness and respect that we have for all of us: for ecological associations and environmentalists, but above all for the Greeks and for the Greeks. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u24	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u25	Mr. President, thank you. I would like to thank the Counsellor for removing that from which I said here or spoke here or for some kind of insult here, for I didn't insult anyone today or any other day. And so, if I don't take that off, I'll have to say that you're lying, lying shamelessly. What I said is that anyway, the difference between you being qualified as vanguards, leaders, pioneers and I don't know how many things, you don't dare qualify as the most beautiful, because you'd sing. Just that, that's what I said. Then from there the interpretation you do because it will be personal and untransferable, but I didn't insult anyone, much less you. You speak — I say in your first intervention — that Galicia is the green capital and you issued a press release, when you went to take that walk to Glasgow, that Galicia enters the global climate leader. Well, you guys are practicing this goebbelsian technique, what Goebbels said is that between a little lie and a big lie you have to choose the big one, because you tend to believe more. So you don't tell small lies, you practice the Goebbelsian doctrine of the great lie. You went to Glasgow because you were taking a walk. I insist: it was Glasgow to take a picture, in the seventh row of a meeting, and therefore you took part in changing a meeting, a photo was taken there, that headline was issued -- I insist that it is part of the annals of the great lie -- saying that Galicia enters the leadership of the global climate and commits itself to reducing emissions to maintain the rise of global temperature below 1.5 degrees. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández shows a photograph.]] That is a huge lie and I would like to stress that in Galicia the only reduction in emissions that has occurred since 1990 has been associated with the closure of the thermals. You talked about Falcon, too. I don't know what you have to do with Falcon here and I don't know if you're insinuating that you went to Glasgow by bike or by submarine or walking... not in Falcon. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, but we can also talk about the Feijóo cochazo you bought, which you bought recently, amounting to at least 60,000 euros, because that's... that's the basic range, but from there it adds up and goes on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, therefore, Feijóo's cochaz, attached to the Junta's mobile park, well... If you don't like the Falcon of the President of the Government, you know that Rajoy was going on a bicycle too. [[Murmurs.]] I asked him to tell me one thing -- and I ask him again -- a single concrete measure -- not infinitive -- a concrete measure, effective, quantifiable, significant measure, that you have adopted in the fight against climate change; not infinitives like "keep", "impulse", "follow" and those things that he likes to say so much. Because it was you, for now, unable to tell me a single measure. See if on the second round or on the last round, on the third round, you're able to tell me a single measure in terms of fighting climate change. And then he also said here a question that is for note: that 99.9% of the judgments give the reason to Joine. I read him three sentences. You tell me one that would give Junta the reason. I gave you three judgments — and, if you like, we can comment on them — in the last year and a half of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia. So that's what you're telling me about 99.9 percent is between nonsense and lies. Tell me I don't know about 24%. A report by Ecoloxists in Action published at the end of last year literally says: "The coal decline dropped greenhouse gas emissions in Galicia by 24% between 1990 and 2019. The download was only possible by cutting emissions into the energy sector motivated by the fall of coal-fired electricity production. The lack of ambition for the Union's Climate Change and Energy Strategy is enormous. The target of reducing emissions to 2030 is only 24.6%, so it has already been achieved in spite of the German Government itself, the defender of coal plants." So I don't even know myself, nor do I find myself ecologists in action. Counsellor, nearly two thirds of the hundreds of scientists working with the Intergovernmental Panel of Experts on Climate Change believe that global emission reduction commitments will not be met and that temperatures will increase at least 3 degrees this century. Therefore, IPCC scientists are pessimistic about compliance with international agreements. And that they don't know you or Mr. Feijóo, because then I don't know if they'd be pessimistic, more pessimistic, or directly suicide. Because climate change has been known since the 1960s and 1981s, when Galicia's autonomy began, climate change was already a reality. The Rio Summit was in 1992 and it has already agreed to stabilize CO2 emissions. Thirty years have passed since then, of which you ruled twenty-six, and the only reduction of emissions you've achieved was the derivative of the closure of the thermal power plants, which is so critical, and therefore, if it were for you, it would not have occurred and there would have been no reduction of emissions in Galicia. And I'd also like you to tell me if you're going to take note of the revolts that you're getting to the High Court of Justice of Galicia in wind matter, and if you're going to do something to end with the legal insecurity in Galicia in this matter, and if you're also going to clarify the laws and not make successive annual modifications to Galicia's wind law, what you're doing is to confuse everyone, citizenship, but also the wind sector, which is smoking in a pipe with you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u26	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u27	And if you answer me: just one measure, tell me one measure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u28	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u29	Counsellor, look, I have here the report of your visit to Glasgow and you really went there to have a photographic session. Here you are but the general director by pointing a panel with your finger, here you are attending a conference. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows some photographs.]] Anyway, he didn't give much more of himself than a few pictures for propaganda... yes, yes, they're all here, all the same. [[Murmurs.]] Look, here you are in the same session, attending a meeting, but little has given you the thing, it was for propaganda, for advertising, for telling real hyperbole and nonsense how you are leading the world to fight climate change. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Bará Torres shows some photographs.]] But jokes, fair ones. Look, I'll read to you: Galicia is in global leadership in the fight against climate change in the regions. Oh, from the regions! No, it's not a Committee of Regions, it's a global organization that was founded in California in 2015 that is being added to organizations, also states, communities, all over the world, actually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you put the signature there and it looks like they're the world champions of the fight against climate change, and it's not good, Counselor. Because data, reality, policies go in the opposite direction, they don't endorse those statements that you make. And look, what we can't afford is that they come here to lie — so with all the letters — and with so much contempt. How can you say it was the BNG in the Government that expanded, who approved the wind farms in the Natura Network? But you're not ashamed, Counselor? Either it's misinformed or it's very bad faith, because it's not true. And here I have the report from the Galician Culture Council, which says there are over 100,000 hectares of Nature Network that are in areas of wind development of the wind sector plan approved by the People's Party, Counsellor. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] Yes, that's right, that's right, 107,000 hectares of Nature Network and there are nearly 1,200 megawatts on Nature Network that were approved and developed by governments of Mr. Fraga's People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] And who stopped the use of the Nature Network for wind farms was the Government of the Bipartite, the Government of the BNG, the Industry Council, in 2008, with the decree of the wind competition. This is the first time that the veto of the use of the Natura Network is established. [[Applause]] Then you put it in the 2009 Law. But then what did they do? They paralyzed the expansion of the Natura Network and now it turns out that there are three parks, 187 air carriers, threatening the expansion of the Natura Network, in processing, Counsellor. [[Applause]] That is why the ecological and social organizations of the rural environment wanted this point to be discussed at the Galego Environment Council. What's the problem with this? Let's debate, vote on a proposal, two proposals that have been put there, which you vetoed, because you have very anti-democratic tics at the bottom. You like the democratic vote most, the jury's vote, and that's where you're trying to express yourself is people's vote, just as people's vote is being expressed, people's vote, in plenary agreements, of all the political colors, which are questioning their wind model. [[Applause]] I have to quote you... can you draw your attention there to Mrs. Novoa, who's bothering me with that rum? [[Mr. Bará Torres is headed for the presidency.]] [[Murmurs.]] I know you don't like these things, which I'm glad about, but don't interrupt, Mrs. Novoa. I have to quote you here all the full agreements of governments and mayors of the People's Party that are questioning you. [[Applause]] Because, of course, you give BNG a kind of omnipotence, a sort of omnipresence, which we organize platforms, concentrations, mobilizations, allegations, plenary agreements, but they're also their councils that are questioning this wind model, just like the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia recently made with Corme. [[Lalín, The Road, Sardinian, Cotobad, Oia — finally, a long restriction —]] By the way, you just had another sentence against the annulment of the Bipartite's wind competition, which was perfectly legal. And I'm not going to tell you that tomorrow my comrade Noa Presas, Mr. Count, of what we've been investing in there, finally paid public funds for her fallouts. [[Applause]] Anyway, that the BNG, of course, also brings proposals here. We think we have to have a country's environmental strategy, which goes by changing the energy model, a public company with a Welsh electric tariff, leading the supply, leading the energy communities against these centralized and distributed models with another model of mobility, of urban public spaces, with an urban path to the country, defending and expanding the protection of the Nature Network and biodiversity. Also with a new policy for the primary sector, with criteria of sustainability, multifunctionality, soil protection, which are losing its biological wealth on a large scale, and also in the water cycle. But, of course, how do you come here to assume that you've been fined a fine of 200,000 euros by the emptying of the chorus when you had just changed the law of the Greek rivers, of continental fishing, by lowering the sanctions? So, really, those sanctions had to be more than 4 million euros and they stayed in 200,000 euros, because you changed the law to favor Iberdrola and the big hydroelectrics. [[Applause]] That's right, Counselor. We need to work on another waste policy, which we'll talk about later, that we have a specific motion to deal with this important issue. We must speak, Madam Counsellor - I have not listened to it - about environmental taxation. We need to talk about government and governance, with a really body in the board that takes on its own name, advice, "action for the climate" and that it has real ability to influence and direct the policies of the board and to concert them with other administrations. We have to work on good planning and legislation, and on all these issues we will focus the debate in the coming months, too, on a bill that we will bring to this Parliament and on which we will formulate our alternatives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u30	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u31	Thank you again, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I believe that, after listening to them in this second intervention, the only thing that is asked by this parliamentary group is sensible and wise, that they do not show it in their speech. In my first speech, I thanked the advisor and noticed her for that attendance that she is celebrating today, her own request, to put in place a job, a job in which responsibility is reflected, the responsibility to facilitate means and above all — I believe the most important — to involve society, so here is the invitation to opposition groups, to fight together against climate change. But that doesn't matter to you, because you criticize everyone in the world, but you don't listen to them either. Not a single one comes near, at least today, ladies and gentlemen, because perhaps the Socialist Party is magnificently contributing to the policies of fighting climate change with its industrial closure policy in our country; it's perhaps a way that they have to contribute to climate change; or using that set of official cars. With sanctions, Mr. Bará. You know very well and you know that the Natural Heritage Act can reach up to 2 million euros. Yes, Mr Bará, yes, that sometimes they look elsewhere and it's not like that. [[Murmurs.]] And how do they contribute? Well, looking somewhere else. You get into the work of the advisor with the photos he does; if he does the photos, because he does the propaganda; if he doesn't, because he hasn't been there; then, to see what you want. The truth is, look, honestly, when you talk about voting, you should think about it, because here the only vote that interests this People's Parliamentary Group and the German Government is the vote on the polls, and I think that, seeing this plenary, it's clear where the vote goes in the polls. [[Applause]] So we want to listen and we want them to reflect their interest in the fight against climate change, something in which they all over the world advocate for summating efforts, and here in this camera you see that everyone goes to their own. I am particularly going to address Mr Bará in this case when he questioned the development or meeting of the Galician Environment and Sustainable Development Council. I think the presidency will then give you the agenda. You know it very well; you skip the laws and procedures; you must respect the orders of the day. And that better than the advisor to explain it, because it is she who presides over you, because you weren't there, and since we weren't there we have to trust what the counselor of course says, but especially not what the counselor says, what she says or what she sets herself on the agenda, and so it's established at any meeting you can attend. BNG needs conflict, that's what BNG needs, it's the only thing he likes: the mess, the fuck. Look where he can be, there we are, making the defense flag, seeing what they tell him, and so it goes. The truth is, what they told you probably has nothing to do with what the counselor just told you. I'm sure. I wish they'd changed their strategy and we'd get meeting points on such a crucial topic. But as we know from the People's Group that it will not be, if we want to express and guarantee our support and involvement in facilitating the plans of the Government of Greece in this matter. And I'm talking about the German Government, because even though the Environmental Council is the one that takes the greatest effort and the greatest weight, here we have to talk about cross-sectional actions, which is one of the fundamental characteristics of this work. Because we have to understand and bear in mind that any activity we do will have our footprint in the climate. From that point on, the importance for the Galician Union to launch the Interdepartmental Commission on Climate Change Strategy. He has an obligation to take all kinds of measures, yes, to protect the planet from growth, and he aspires to be a neutral administration in 2040. It is so important that each administrative building is studied to halt its consequences! That's work, ladies and gentlemen, these are measures, Mr Alangüena, to meet the 17 objectives of sustainable development, to adopt a circular economy strategy to give life to products through recycling, and no one can doubt the interrelationship of these activities with the effects of climate. We may be faced with the most powerful reason for ensuring the cross-section of government actions. And what about cooperation and participation, Mr Bará?, of engaging in the fight against climate change to someone as important as the municipalities, because the smaller territory can be fundamental to the fight against climate change. There's the climate and energy mayor's pact, with those municipalities that the councillor referred to. But we have to say that we will need more investments and, surely, we will continue to work from the pact. As far as I am concerned — and I speak as a representative of Ourense Province — it is an honour to see how the Vilamarin Town Hall was the first local administration to assume the commitment to reducing gas emissions, such as three other Austrian municipalities, highlighting the essential, basic and indispensable role of the municipalities in this road map to a greener, more sustainable and cleaner Galicia. [[Villa de Santos, becauseira and Maceda]] A pride like goldsmith, a pride like Galician, because we remember here that in the struggle there are no winners and no losers. When we talk about policies to fight against climate change, or we all win or lose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close of attendance, Environmental, Territory and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u33	Thank you, President. Mrs. Díaz, thank you for the work you've been doing all this time with an end, and that end is reaching consensus with the rest of the political groups, for the sake of Galicia and the Greeks. And also thank you for the contributions you can make towards the future Climate Law to BNG and PSOE. Having said this, humans have mistakes and, therefore, those mistakes are better to be once colored than three times inhabited. But the BNG has a mantra and it is not to acknowledge those mistakes, and nothing happens, Mr. Bará; now you can say that you are against the implantation of the propellers on the Natura Network, and we accept it; we too. What you can't say, Mr Bará, is that you wouldn't allow it. Did it hurt? You want me to give him the name? I'll bring your files next day. Name: Alave Montemayor north, 1; Couto San Sebastián, 2; Farelo, 3; Mondoñedo, 4; Rioboo, 5; 177.3 megawatts, 2% of the affected Nature Network. That's the reality. Next day I bring the files and I give them to the Presidency to have them there. That nothing happens, Mr Bará, that when you get colored once nothing happens, we all change the strategy. Well, it's done that the central government — and you also support — does not forbid it; on the contrary, it sends us all that mix of wind turbines to inform them on the Natura Network. And you were there, you didn't vote against Royal Decree 23/2020. Do you know how many files? Do you know how many wind turbines? 165. What did I suppose? An increase of 838 percent of what we've been reporting. That's the reality of BNG, it's not another. We'll be next to the industries, so they can continue to implement the best available techniques. We'll be next to the owners of the mountains, so they'll still be the big carbon reservoirs. We will continue to be with the owners of housing, so that European funds can be executed and, therefore, there are fewer emissions to the atmosphere. We'll be campaigning awareness -- and thanking the entire teacher here, the schools, the high schools, the university as well. But we're also going to change Galician board's mobile park; it's just that we have to change Galician board's mobile park; and I'm changing it for agents -- it's just going to be missing -- because there's less to be contaminated. And we will continue to provide help so that the rest of the citizenry can also change your mobile park, Mr. Bará. Having said this, I'd like to know what the future model of the BNG and the PSOE is; I still don't understand it. I hope at some point we can sit down, and we'll get some good things out of each other, but I totally don't know it. Ladies and gentlemen, conclusion: Galicia is prepared to fight climate change and implement the measures necessary to curb its consequences. Galicia doesn't want to be a problem. Galicia wants to be a solution. Galicia wants to lead as a region on a global level and, as far as possible, curb climate change. I know you don't seem to care much. And, above all, look at what I'm playing with them and how little they had to work with Glasgow's photos! He could keep taking pictures, Mr. Bará, because there he would see that he was with other regions. Well, by the way, the president of Catalonia has appeared with a number of journalists who can't even imagine; he hasn't been at any of the bilateral meetings or made no contribution. Galicia does, but if you want, I'll pass it too. He was with regions of Brazil, he was with Switzerland, he was with regions of Germany, I was with French regions. Yes, I didn't control French or German, there were interpreters, I was perfectly organized. But there was Navarre too, and it's good -- you can get in touch with them -- and there was also the Basque Country. I mean, how can you come with two photographs to say one goes for a walk? From the walk Mr. Sánchez goes to the Falcon, and you're allowing him and they're saying absolutely nothing. I could check in Glasgow, at the conference, that we not only share the same level of concern with different regions, but also the same ways of wanting to push and work for a global goal, which is the fight against climate change. Unfortunately, we also share the same barriers, especially with the Member States, those States that do not give them the importance of the regions, and therefore that lack of recognition which Europe also sees in the regions to meet the expectations we have set ourselves. From Galicia we believe it would be fair to recognize the actions that are taking place from the site, because these local actions are the ones that will help us to tackle this global problem, that global problem. The central government, in addition, should make an explicit recognition of Galicia's work, and should do it for various facts. Those facts of reducing CO2 emissions, but also of having already started the Climate Change Strategy, the Circular Economy Strategy, by leading the climate and energy mayorship Pact and by having already worked and pushed towards next week the beginning of what the Galician Climate Law is going to be. The work done in Galicia in the last decade on climate change is undeniable, but when I say in Galicia, I'm not talking only about the Government of Galicia. It is undeniable the work that the municipalities have done, the work that they have done certain deputies -- it must be said that more than others -- the work of universities, the work of different organizations. Together is not only aware of the role it plays in the search for global climate ambition by acting from the site, but has analyzed the path and speed we have, which is to print the measures to achieve the targets at the internationally agreed time. That is why we lay the foundations and designed a complete and ambitious framework for environmental legislation, with particular emphasis on milestones. And these milestones are the Waste and Contaminated Soil Law, adopted in 2021; the fight against plastics of one use; the fight against food waste; the realistic margin to implement the fifth container; the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, adopted in 2019, being one of the few European regions that have their own roadmap against global warming, an effective tool for achieving a progressive, safe, sustainable energy transition that counts in addition with the first integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan 2019-2023, which develops this strategy, with a total of 170 measures, and 1.2 billion euros in this period. And indeed, there is also a budget to combat climate change and to fight fires. And we promote and coordinate the accession of the Greek municipalities to the Mayors' Pact for climate and energy. What I've said before, 278 municipalities, but on yesterday another one was added, it's 279 municipalities. Thanks to this previous work, Galicia is being able to reduce these emissions. This is demonstrated by the latest available data. We will advance them when we have the data that will be published in principle in April, and then we will see the reduction in the integrity of Meirama and also of the Bridges. Now the reduction is at 23.8%, and Galicia is the third autonomous community that has most reduced emissions in this period, in addition to being 32 percentage points below the level of emissions from the state's set, which is increasing them. The forecast is that this data is very encouraging by 2020. Finally, Galicia has been playing a leading role in Spain and Europe with regard to the fight against climate change, incorporating transversal policies; some policies to which I say: sum up, gentlemen of the BNG; sum up, gentlemen of the PSOE; will be welcome. It's not just about criticizing, it's about putting solutions on the table, and I'm sure they'll also have certain solutions. Finally, we will continue to work and bring to the House what will be Galicia's first climate law, which we will begin to process next week. And we will push the Galician Alliance for Climate, creating that network of entities involved in the fight against climate change, the improvement of the environment and the drive of a sustainable economy. We will continue to implement the measures set out in the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050 and will continue to promote Galicia's involvement in the European Green Pact, and to monitor the implementation of the 2030 Agenda objectives. We will continue to work with the municipalities — they are key parts — and help them develop their action plans against climate change. We'll come up with a mayor's pact covering the 313 municipalities. We will provide Galicia with studies and tools that help us prevent the consequences of climate change and thus allow us to anticipate. And we'll get Junta to be a neutral carbon administration, serving as an example to the rest of the organizations. Galicia will not stay behind, but on the contrary; we want to head those regions that want to drive the brakes of climate change. And of course, what we have is that Galicia is not going to be a problem but, on the contrary, it will bring solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u34	Thank you, Counselor. Now that the debate is over, I wanted to make a comment. And I wanted to address Mr. Arangüena, if he could remove an expression he used metaphorically but which, as far as our parliamentary activity is concerned, I have always done so since I was president, now six years ago. There are certain expressions I ask, please, that they are not used. In particular, I refer to the expression "if they would kill themselves"; I don't think it's a proper expression, even if it's used metaphorically, especially in the context where we are. I'd ask you if you could remove that expression. [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, give the floor to Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u35	Yes, Mr. President. Of course, I have no problem with removing her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u36	Thank you very much. Well, that expression is removed from the agenda. And we continue with point 2, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in connection with the tendering of the contract of the Sogama incineration plant in Cerceda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u37	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u38	You don't want to talk about the waste model, listen to the proposals that the groups have. But since the Union and the People's Party want to talk about model, we're going to talk about model. Our model with respect to the Natura Network is to protect at least 20%; that's our model. Be brave and take that step and do not allow the degradation and destruction of the Natura Network. Our policy model against climate change is also making cities more habitable, and we're doing it with a model that is international reference: Pontevedra. The mayor of Pontevedra was in Paris yesterday discussing with leaders, discussing with you, and not taking pictures, with European leaders on this issue. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And our model is also for waste that is being done in the province of Pontevedra with Revitaliza. A policy which European organisations have set as an example of the European super policy on the Green Pact. That's the BNG model. And we offer it in addition to free of charge, so that you can also take it into account and deploy it where you consider it appropriate. But we are going to go to the debate on waste policy, or part of waste policy, because we are not allowed to talk about industrial waste policy today — this deserves a separate piece, it remains for another debate. We are going to talk about municipal waste, especially the majority fraction of municipal waste, which is the most problematic and complex, which are the so-called bioresidues. They are approximately 50% of municipal waste — counting the remains of pruning. To discuss this question, we have to build on the reality of data. And the data, the photograph of the year 2020, the latest data we have, are very clear. They say Galicia doesn't do it. Galicia is at 18% recycling when we should be at 50%. Look at the difference. And you still come here pretending to be the world champions of the regional league -- according to the advisor -- in the fight against climate change. How can this be, if the data are conclusive? It's Sogama's own data, it's also the state data, the Miteco, which says that Galicia is among the last four regions in the queue as well as the municipal waste recycling data. And, of course, the advisor is also allowed to assume that we are in global, regional, Welsh or international leadership, or I don't know what, about the treatment of waste when it's fake. 85% of the waste that goes to Sogama will burn — most of it, 60% — or directly to the dump. That's the reality. We're too far from doing it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. So what we have to go to is a system change, a 180-degree turn in waste policy in Galicia. And we think that this change has to be done with realism and also with ambition, looking at the future, setting out great goals, big goals, and taking into account the context, the context of climate change, the context of the new legislation that has been approved in Europe in recent years, including in the state and in Galicia, about waste policy and which requires major changes. You seem to want to go for the old lady and not take this reality into account. Look, we have the 2018 European directive, we have the French 2021 law, we have the new state law that is about to be passed in the Senate and then in Congress — if there are any changes —. And you have to develop that legislation, you have to make regulations, you have to make orders and you have to plan. And we have seen here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to offer them agreements, country agreements on waste policy, agreements not with our maximums but a minimum agreement, an agreement based on two main ideas, complementarity and cooperation, assuming that in the country — at least in a transitional way, while these directives are being applied, these rules — there must be a transition and there must be a coexistence between different systems. You can't delete from the map neither Sogama nor Lousam nor Nostián, nor the other experiences you are experiencing in Galicia, you cannot do. It's something we assume and we have to go towards gradual change, but the starting point has to be coexistence, complementarity and cooperation, so don't go from the Government of the Union to put other alternative systems. The second proposal that we bring here — a country proposal — is that we create a working group with Fegamp and other administrations that promote waste management systems for the normative development of laws, for the development of ordinances, to organize all the municipal management, inspection work, to choose the best management models, and also to work on a question that needs to be worked, which is that of waste taxation. Within this working group is where we make a proposal — which we have already moved to the Council — to make a study, analysis and debate visit, a visit to Sogama facilities with transparency and light and tachygraphs, in which all those bodies and entities of this working group that we propose must also be present. The third point, the third proposal we bring here, is to negotiate and agree on the so-called Welsh Bioresidue Strategy. We have already warned you that it was being treated irregularly, illegally, by the back door, as a covert amendment to Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan of 2010, which is extended until 2022 — it ends this year. It's going through the back door and it's doing without guarantees of information, public participation and environmental assessment. And the German Government has to set an example, it can't do things like that. You cannot demand a small farm environmental impact report, an environmental impact assessment, and make Junta three large composting infrastructures, 14 transfer plant infrastructures to transfer bioresidues and, as if nothing, without submitting it to the processing that marks the law and that needs to be complied with. It's not a volunteer thing, you have to set an example. [[Applause]] And what can't be done either is a bioresidue strategy that ignores the reality that there are other systems, other experiences, in addition to very advanced ones, such as Revitalize. Because you in the Bioresidue Strategy are planning for the province of Pontevedra as if there was no Revitaliza. This can't be. They may like it more or less, but they have to assume the reality that the Deputy is working on this matter. And they don't include anything about advanced experiences on, for example, agrocompostage, which is also called co-compostage, which is the joint work between the primary sector and the municipal waste sector to search for solutions, small-scale solutions, also decentralized solutions, which is called the Austrian model, which is a reference. This is truly a European and global reference to the treatment of bioresidues. We also put forward a proposal to carry out a new waste planning. We told you in the previous debate, and we repeat it again today. The Greek Waste Plan ends in 2022. The years 2021 and 2022, according to the expansion that was made in 2016, are years of evaluation of that plan. So we should now be evaluating, talking about the evaluation, presenting the evaluation reports and beginning to work on the new plan for the years 2023 and so on. But you haven't done the evaluation yet — all the more, starting with planning — and they've made that shortcut to the bioresidue strategy. We therefore propose the participatory development of Galicia's new waste plan and the new prevention programme, which is mandatory by law. Because prevention in waste management is more important than management planning. The next proposal we make is to review the criteria for calls for aid for bioresidue management, which were marked at the sectoral conference on 14 April 2021 and which you are not respecting. We must take into account the current reality, all waste treatment systems, not punish anyone — especially not punish those calls to whom they do things right or, in any case, to whom they do things best — not exclude the municipalities. In the circular you have sent, you exclude the municipalities that are not in Sogama, when line 1 plans to finance experiences of enhanced expansion of separate collection systems, as already exist in Galicia. It can't be done. And one cannot exclude community composting, of course, and penalize those who are already doing things about management. It cannot be excluded from these calls — this is totally impossible to believe and understand — composting in municipalities of less than three thousand inhabitants. It's just where it should be the primary, primary and majority choice, domestic composting, community composting. Because in many of these municipalities you could possibly avoid collecting and transporting to the bioresidue plant. It's very easy to understand: there are provinces in Galicia where 80% or 90% of the municipalities have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants, and they wouldn't have to transfer waste to hundreds of miles, with this centralized conception that you have of waste management that is an aberration in economic terms, in terms of social co-responsibility and, above all, in environmental terms. When we're talking about fighting climate change, it turns out that you're spending waste, organic matter, wet waste, hundreds of miles across the country to treat them on centralized plants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u40	...today in Sogama and in the future we'll see. And we also want to talk about the control of plastics and the tax study. So what we want to say and propose with this debate is that we have a great opportunity ahead, we have to set great goals also in politics, superpolitics, wastes and thinking about large, thinking about policies for waste, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u41	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we announced our vote in favour of this initiative, because we share these demands and, in addition, they are in line with similar initiatives that this group has already registered. The reality of Greece is unquestionable, and the reality of Greece tells us that in the matter of waste management we arrive very late. In the years of disillusionment of their management policy, of not understanding this as a priority, they do now, when we have close the deadlines to comply with the guidelines set by the European Union, because we don't even get far. Now they're in a hurry and we've found a country that is far away from the targets -- marked by 2024 -- of 55% of recycling in organic matter. In the year 2021 you announce the creation of three new plants, Cervo, Vilanova and Verín, which join the one of Cerceda, which opened in 2018. And the People's Party echoes this call, this new creation of three new plants, when in Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan, a plan — a reminder — of 2010-2022, you had planned the creation of 11 plants before 2019. Furthermore, he spoke of this Galician waste management plan that this infrastructure network that would create before 2019 would respond to the principles of efficiency, proximity and self-sufficiency. We don't have any of this. He also said he'd be located in good and fair locations, not only environmentally, but also in economic and social. Where are these principles?, where are these seven remaining plants? This demonstrates the narrow failure of this Galician waste management plan. They don't arrive, but look, they don't want to incorporate other options that exist in Galicia that are being successful, like the Lousam plant or the model of the Pontevedra Deputy. Why does this government systematically reject everything that doesn't have its political colour? As I said, Junta is late, Galicia is late, and instead of applying policies that encourage the municipalities to incorporate this brown container and promote organic composting, the Government of the People's Party decides for the year 2022 to lower the 5% of the cannon it charges to the municipalities for incineration. You're pushing incineration. They're posting this in the DOG a few days ago, the 28th of January. And she also announces that the 295 municipalities that carry the garbage to Sogama for their energy recovery will be able to save 11 million euros, justifying it in the economic crisis and in the expenditure it is assuming to the municipalities the increase in the crisis resulting from the coward. On the other hand, this DOG also increases by 7% the price per ton of treated waste on Sogama composting plant. Well, right now, in composting, but at the moment the other three -- of which projects have started -- will also apply this 7% to each ton of waste treated there. This is the world in reverse, and then you blame the municipalities for not joining this composting model and that only four are part of a plant like Areosa, which has capacity for 18 municipalities. I don't know what degree of success these future plants you've started, but, if you don't change your policy, I hope a success similar to the Areosa plant. But why this benefit of the People's Party's Government to incineration? So the answer is very simple: because it's a millionaire business. Sogama uses this 57% of the garbage that comes from the municipalities to burn and with that it produces electricity. And the last report we have from the Board of Auditors figures at EUR 24 million the revenues derived from this sale of kilowatts. These lots of dividends are sharing! And also a lot of compounds would have to be sold to reach these amounts. As far as waste strategy is concerned, you now announce the bioresidue strategy with an objective towards 2030, which is unfortunately wet paper again. There are four main objectives that we understand as priorities, such as setting the principles of circular waste economy, involving citizenship, setting out the objectives and steps to be taken, including the protection of our marine environment and contributing to the creation and consolidation of jobs in the waste management sector. We have a waste management plan, as I said, which is still in force this year. The year 2021 and 2022 were years of evaluation. But this plan was not fulfilled by far. They now propose a 2030 plan falling into the same mistake. We must first assess the implementation of this plan, see the errors, see what has failed, and verify and approve another that contains the objectives marked by the European Union and by the future law of transposition of this directive, by the future state law — and I am not talking about the recent law of Greece because it is a law which remains far behind in respect of these Community objectives. The new plan will not only set targets, but will also be where the steps and measures to be taken, which are budgeted and meet the relevant legal requirements, including the environmental impact report of these measures, participation or public exposure, are laid down. And, above all, it is necessary to be the fruit of a consensus, not a unilateral and urgent action to save the furniture, as this strategy is. Look, the way in which this government acts has been perfectly determined by the Economic and Social Council in its preliminary ruling for the draft waste law we approved a year ago. This report, in its view, has questioned some aspects of this law. And he referred, for example, to the lack of real measures for environmental education and training, the lack of coordination with other autonomous communities or other administrations, insufficient funding for the municipalities, the lack of ambition for the administration's obligations to ensure access to information collected and prepared by the Government of Greece, and the lack of willingness to facilitate participation and planning. Well, of course, these are the main features of this government's policy in waste management. It does not invest in waste policy nor facilitates participation or coordination among the municipalities. And a year after the passing of this law, they're still the same. Coordination, collaboration and cooperation with local entities or with Fegamp are needed, both to adapt measures and to optimize the management of future facilities and also to involve citizenship. Look, all your waste policy is an example of discretion and lack of consensus. We could take a lot of examples, but, to choose one, I can talk about one of the 13 future transfer plants they announced and that you've announced again here today the advisor. I mean the one located in Riotorto Town Hall. You impose a location in spite of the neighboring opposition, the opposition of the landowners and the landowners, the mayors and mayors of the area, and you disregard a proposal for an existing consensus in the region that tried to place this plant in the Pastory and thus take advantage of a clean spot that existed. But you intend to continue imposing this transfer plant in the county of Riotorto. That's how this government acts with everything. The result of all of this is that Galicia is currently among the autonomous communities that have the worst recycling results, so we need to put our batteries and get out of this unwanted ranking. I'm going to go ahead because, even if I don't have a guessing ball like that, if I know what the People's Party will get, which, as always, in their debates, is to throw balloons out. Well, they don't throw balloons out on this, because planning depends on the board rather than on the municipalities. And they didn't accomplish their goals or by far. Together you have to make policies and equip the different councils of instruments to comply with these policies, so you have to get to work. In addition, it is important and I forgot before saying it, in the waste management, prevention and recycling policy there is an enormous opportunity to create jobs, to create companies, or to take this management horizontally to many sectors of economic activity. So don't waste it, don't forget it, and get to work because time rushes and 2024 is there around the corner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Mouteira
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u44	Thank you again, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. The Parliament's Rules of Procedure speak of the fact that an appeal may give rise to a motion and that this motion must be consistent with the question. I do not doubt that the Bureau considered it consistent. But I believe that the pre-interpellation dealt with the policy of the German Government in relation to the bidding of the contract of the Sogama incineration plant in Cerceda, and that question at all is named in its motion, nor is it referred to in any of the seven points contained in the motion resulting from that interpellation. It would be the first time, this People's Parliamentary Group understands, that Mr Bará and the nationalist group have clarified the statement given to them that day in connection with this contract. It would be the first time that the Galician Nationalist Block sees those doubts and suspicions disappear — because they used those words — that they disappeared in that previous interpellation. They realized, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, that they had no basis, that they were shadows, suspicions and doubts invented by the BNG to discredit the work of a Galician company like Sogama, and another Greek company like Valtalia, with unquestionable, unquestionable adjudication. In other tenders there was an appeal and in this case no appeal was even lodged. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that what they want is for you to prosper and advance the companies of Greece, which win competitions, who create jobs, who are successful, and not only in Galicia but in Spain and other countries. The truth is, listening to them, it's no pleasure to the opposition parliamentary groups. But this parliamentary group wants to bring the collation of sentences and questions that you turned up that day of the interpellation, Mr Bará; because they lack reality and all they reflect is a total and absolute irresponsibility of the BNG. It is a daring, because you have qualified as a narrow failure of the waste management policy of the Galician Union as a model that is referenced in Europe and internationally, which has been endorsed by the European Union and by an audit of the European Commission in which the significant environmental benefits — managing and treating waste in accordance with Community guidelines — are highlighted firstly — economic — generating wealth and employment — and social — by doing an important work of environmental education. Look, Mr Bará, the Sogama model meets all the requirements laid down by European legislation — I think you should have no doubt about it — it complies with the reuse, reduction, recycling and recovery, and with an "r" in capitals, the responsibility. That's what you guys have to do. And before you begin to look at the points of your motion, when you, as much as you do with that visit that bothers you so much, that of the advisor to Glasgow, set an example to Mr. Lores, who went to Paris, perhaps was talking about what this headline puts: "Various officials declare in the Public Prosecutor's Office the land rented for the compound plant." Maybe it was asking for advice to get out of this problem, maybe it was that. [[Applause]] I also said my grandmother when I saw the part -- as she called the news, she said, "Nothing, they talk about everything, and will they know anything or will they not know anything?" Well, look, I think, speaking of the opposition lordships, they don't know anything -- I would tell my grandmother -- because they always go slowly, with which "we want to seek constructive haste." But you go with "no," with "no" always ahead. See, in point 1 of the motion, the principles you are referring to are already in Law 6/2021 of waste and contaminated soils of Galicia — it is only necessary to read — that in turn they come from Community directives. Don't give it to your head because it's like that. On minimum agreements, how are we going to talk about a minimum agreement when we are talking about European compliance rules? And we must not forget the responsibility for household waste in the municipalities. Merger must respect any of the authorized templates. They're talking about cooperation. What do you call meetings held by the Council with the various waste management systems in Galicia? Please tell this parliamentary group what you call meetings that are held with Nostián to resolve the issue of landfill and the exit of organic waste to other landfills. What do they call them? How do you call them meetings that keep the Director General for Climate Change with Lousam's business committee — by the way, where there's no woman, at least it's interesting —? At this meeting it was recognized by this committee that the management of the centre was manifestly improved — rather, that it was lacking in management, do it!— What do the BNG and the PSOE ladies then say in the following interpretative note — forgive me, which I am going to read in Spanish — "On the wet-dry collection model does it fulfil the new separate collection obligations for the purposes of Community and national waste legislation"? You have announced the bomb and dish that they will fight to reverse that interpretation of Mr. Sánchez's government. And for now you haven't informed us yet. Let's see if the replica now tells us something about whether there's been any progress on that subject and if they've got something with their partners. When you live in reality, or you live in reality, you'd know that both the General Directorate and the Council keep in constant contact with Fegamp. But do you guys doubt that? If Fegamp is informed on time of the legislative news, of the aid programs, participated in the Welsh bioresidue strategy, he participated in the working group of the community composting guide! But what do you want! It is surprising that the Bloc, which recently supported that waste law in the Congress of Deputies for a circular economy, did not make this request there in the Congress of Deputies. And then, is it different? And I didn't hear you say -- because you know that you got your foot there -- that of the previous interpellation when you talked about plastics for agricultural use. It was dared to say, as you have seen — and today you haven't mentioned it because I'm sure you've regretted having said it — that the plastics accumulated outside Sogama will be energetically valued on this plant, which is a real fallacy. They make the lie, gentlemen of the BNG, a sign of identity. It can't be, because you know Sogama is only allowed to treat urban waste. Agricultural plastics are not qualified as such. [[Applause]] Sogama doesn't process them. This is a sample of his little knowledge of waste management. See, read at final disposal Friday, Textile waste, furniture, inserts, plastics for agricultural use and sanitary waste. Maybe he'll clear something up. And for more abundance in the inconsistencies of your group, the state law that you have supported envisages the possibility of creating a network — look at what I'm going to say — a national or even community integrated network. What about this? A moment ago he called it "aberration." And if you also have a mouse, give a reading to article 9, which I don't have time to detail. That unfortunate statement that you have seen in the inquiry — which I insist that you did not return to it because you were very sorry to use it — is that you speak of these agricultural plastics as fuel for what your group mistakenly calls "incineration" instead of "energy value." And this is a fallacy that has no justification of any kind. And we continue to move forward in his motion and continue to miss the truth, Mr Bará, we continue to remain out of reality. He didn't spend five minutes reading the Welsh Bioresidue Strategy, because otherwise the fourth point of the motion wouldn't exist. If you were dedicated to reading the law, you'd see that the Bioresidue Strategy already takes into account the aspects of what you're talking about at the fourth point, except agrocompostage, which you mentioned. Yeah, yeah, but why don't you mention it? Because he's waiting for the guidelines of the Waste Commission. With regard to environmental assessment, this parliamentary group wants to think that you are talking about strategic environmental assessment, which is the only one that applies to plans and programmes. Well, if you don't have structural intervention or territorial planning, you don't need it, Mr. Bará. Read article 6 of the Environmental Assessment Act 21/2013. And again we follow and go back to the shadows, to the suspicions, to the doubts, to those aids about the management of bioresidues, when those aids are approved by the central government and do not exclude any system. The only exclusions — and you know it well — are for budgetary reasons. In any case, please make it clear, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that the Council will always be with the Town Councils, as it has so far been. The Welsh strategy of circular economy did not include any concrete measures, and there was talk of instruments to improve the separation into origin. Look, the problem is that you supported a Socialist Group law that comes late, Mrs. Castro. That is the late one, with two years' delay — the State's waste law. For by supporting that law you have condemned many, or all, the municipalities of Galicia with that double imposition, with that character of that law that will so much harm all the municipalities of Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen — because I can't believe you don't know it — Galicia is the only community that has a differentiated industrial waste management plan for municipalities. And you have to know — and be quiet — that you are already in tendering — if you are already in tendering process — the preparation of the new plans. I'm done, and I want to tell you from the People's Parliamentary Group, just like you, that we ask you to do a little of your will, because if you put it on, you'd see that the Council of Galicia has done and is doing its homework. Advanced Union management policy. It's you who go back, it's you who don't want to move forward, it's you who follow with the same arguments 20 or 30 years ago. They don't evolve or want Galicia to evolve. But the Environmental Council and this government work for the present and work for the future. You, Lords of the Opposition, only think of the past. If you want Galicia to go ahead, look at you too. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] By the Galician Nationalist Block, the author of the motion, Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u46	Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, you're really still for the old lady, aren't you? Because we saw here — thank you, Elijah — giving up many of our suggestions. [[Mr. Bará Torres' reference to the planter serving water on the ground.]] We take them to their minimums to try to reach agreements. We offer our tender hand and you come here biting. I'm the government and they come with an aggressive speech, from opposition to opposition. You really are very badly located, or you have a bad conscience, or you really recognize that these proposals are sensible, prudent, realistic, also ambitious and based on experiences, in addition to success. And, look, from our interpellation, you read the summary of the services of the House, but you were talking about the adjudication, that series of contract adjudications and the consequences that this had for waste policy. And that's what we're talking about here, about the consequences. Because that adjudication — which, by the way, is going to have to talk, is going to give you an advance to speak in other instances — assumes that we're going to carry the same tons of waste to Sogama, and that has to change, it's going to change. Those tons have to be drastically reduced. And there's a contract that goes until 2027 to us as if things were the same. So that's why we question her. And, of course, you go with the autopilot, and you really do these great speeches saying I'm an international reference in Europe. But how can they say that! Look, this is recent: "The EU criticizes the incineration of waste in countries that are said to be advanced, like Germany." It is the European Union, with all the regulations of circular economy, which it is saying must be reduced to the minimum necessary incineration, and you are betting for incineration as a preferential and predominant system, which is what Sogama means, as we know it. That's why we tell them that we have to change, that the European Union is telling the countries that most waste burns, like Germany and Denmark. You didn't get up to date, you didn't get to sleep. And, look at : "Angeles Vázquez highlights Sogama's milestone for placing Galicia at its head in reduction and recycling." [[Mr. Bará Torres reads a document from the stage.]] These statements were made in January 2020, when I opened the composting plant of Areosa, in Cerceda, which took years and a half to receive the first bioresidues there, year and a half since the Madam Counsellor opened it! And I'd put this as a reference in reduction and recycling. How can you assume that we are a reference when we have 18% recycling, 18% thanks to the other systems that raise the average, Lousam and Nostián! We have 18% when we had to be 50%. How can you say that we are a reference!, in which world they live! We also have to meet another target in 2025, which is 55%. At this rate or in the year 2100, we're going to meet those targets. Thank you for not going to continue to rule and we will be able to make another really advanced and decent waste policy, because, of course, we're not going to comply. [[Applause]] The reality is that you're in a kind of strategy -- they're talking about strategies -- of the ostrich, putting your head in, hiding your head, and not wanting to see reality. But Sogama has the days counted, she's on a countdown. In fact, you're already doing that restyling, they're calling it "Circular Sougama," because you realize that, in this world in which you live, you can't sell yourself as something sustainable, as something that goes against climate change. I've told you, it's aberrant in a country like Galicia, that it has thirty thousand nuclei of population, collects in a centralized waste system and transports them in trucks or trains -- I think it's the same -- all over the country, to dry them there in a convolence operation, in society, with Naturgy and then to make energy with these dry wastes It's absolutely aberrant, you have to go on another scale, you have to go to decentralization, you have to go to proximity treatments, you have to go to self-sufficiency, you have to go to self-composition, to composting of proximity — domicile and also community, which is what is doing the Pontevedra Deputation as a preferred system. And what can't be treated by these systems, has to go to plants, indeed, plants like Canicouva, to which you have made a fierce campaign of attacks, criticism, demolition... [[Applause]] Anyway, I've taught them many times the picchoon picture, their bioresidue policy is that of the picachon, that of wanting to destroy community composters because I don't know how many plagues they would bring. Everyone is delighted with them, with the BNG and with the PP as well, because there are many PP municipalities that are implementing Community composting, which is high politics, European superpolitics. And you don't realize that. Look, in the bioresidue strategy it's an illegality like a cathedral what they're doing, because that's what you have to do through the Galician Waste Management Plan, or, if you don't, if you do a strategy, you have to submit it to the information and public participation processes. Are you telling me that three plants and 14 transfer plants don't have to be subject to public information and participation? With regard to plastics, indeed, I said in the previous plenary that this mogollon, this huge amount of plastics that are deposited by the concessionary company next to Sogama or they will either burn — as it has curiously happened many times already — or will be burned. I also say that there is a project of a waste incineration plant in Galicia in processing as a project for European funds — with some companies you know very well, of rotational doors. So, look! And if not, we'll see you in time. Either they burn or they burn, because they're not going to fly. [[Applause]] And I end by offering again — although you do not want to meet these reasons — an agreement on resources, on waste, which are wealth, which are a source of employment. If they're dealing otherwise, they're a great opportunity for Galicia, to be in the head and not in the tail, as we are and as we have seen in official data, and not to copy, to be original from the very beginning, from tradition. That's also what composting means, because the experts also say to bury...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u47	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u48	...—now finished, President— bioresidues are more effective in combating climate change than in changing all cars to electricity. You see how important these policies are to climate change. So you don't have to think of the country as small, but think about it as big, as you want and how you're already doing the BNG where you have government responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u49	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We are debating the second motion on the agenda. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the industrial crisis that strikes Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u50	No amendments have been tabled to this motion. Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u51	Well, good morning. In the last plenary session, the BNG Group questioned Vice-President Count about the industrial crisis that goes through Galicia from extreme to extreme, a very serious industrial crisis that leaves an invoice of 12,000 industrial jobs destroyed during successive president Fexóo's governments. And, as always, the Vice President's explanations were very disappointing, deeply disappointing. She insists on wanting to caricaturize BNG by saying that while we want to nationalize companies, Junta supports the investment of Index, Estrella Galicia, Cortizo, Televés, Finsa, Albo or Coren. We don't know if this was a ridiculous attempt to insinuate that the BNG can claim to nationalize these companies — because I don't imagine the owners and owners of Cortizo, Televés or any of these companies concerned and concerned because the BNG, or someone, wants to nationalize their companies — or if it was also a ridiculous attempt to attribute some merit to the success of these companies. But this is the level of the Board and its arguments — as I said before — deeply disappointing. However, there is something that, both the owners and the owners of these companies and the staff who work in them, can be very clear: that, if one day the company is affected by a crisis, they could not count on the Board of Galicia or on President Fexóo to overcome it under the ridiculous, bizarre and devious pretext that the Union is not about to nationalize companies. On the other hand, in the BNG it is clear that the Union must take an active part in the rescue of large firms in crisis, in the rescue of industrial employment and in the rescue of all the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, of autonomous and autonomous companies and of all the induced jobs in general that feed our country's large industrial enterprises. In this sense, there are some of the 20 proposals that we bring to the debate today in this motion to urge the Union to actively commit itself to the rescue of companies such as Alcoa, Alu Iberica or Barreras, or to urge the General to comply with the provisions of the Xallas hydroelectric power plants on the maintenance of employment in the factories of Cee and Dumbria. We demand commitment to the maintenance of industrial activity and to the maintenance of employment. Commitment is rescue, commitment is to participate in social capital if necessary, commitment is to participate in strategic direction and in the long-term project, commitment is to ensure the volume and conditions of employment. And we demand your commitment to the Navy. It's all right with chest blows, it's all right with "I wouldn't do it" but don't do anything, it's all right not to compromise with anything. What the Navy needs is an industrial plan, a government to lead, to make a diagnosis, to plan, to unify efforts, to mark the path and to compromise resources. [[Applause]] And we also demand an initiative from him. There are important sectors in Galicia, such as automobiles, which are living a great transformation and which employ more than 25,000 people in our country. And Galicia can't stay behind. Together you have to have initiatives and projects that diversify and consolidate your own sector, initiatives and projects. Today, the German automotive sector is absolutely dependent on what a single large transnational company does not have its decision-making centres here, more than 25,000 jobs depend on the decisions of a single large company that makes its decisions thousands of miles away. Isn't this an obvious vulnerability to our economy? But for now, the only thing that has demonstrated the government of Faixóo is that it has no own project, that it has no initiative, and that it has no face to say that it shares the criticism and vision that the president of Stellantis has in the automotive sector, as if the priorities or needs of Stellantis go beyond the priorities and needs of our country mechanically and 100%. In the BNG we have made it clear that the Italian Government must collaborate with the automotive sector, it must actively promote the installation of factories of those components that will be or are already essential for the manufacture of the new models of vehicles, or of those most advanced components that can exert an attractive effect on other companies in the sector. We also urged the Union to rethink the public naval sector in Galicia, to rethink the company model of Navantia. Restricting Navantia's activity in the Ferrol River to military naval construction has caused the greatest economic and demographic disaster to be remembered. And the downward trend in international military construction is consolidated. All international offers are to buy the design and build on your domestic shipyards — Turkey, Australia, Canada, United States, Greece and now Poland — all offers are to build the ships on your shipyards. This model is not supported and the Government of Greece cannot do as the monkeys do, who don't see, hear and don't speak. Persevering in this business model is so much as disclosing what happens in the district of Ferrol, the same as refusing to exercise government. The Union must take the initiative, enter the Navantia Board of Directors and promote diversification and recovery of activities in Navantia Ferrol so that, finally, after forty years of decline, we will bend the curve and be able to grow by strengthening the different areas of activity of the yard — turbines, repairs, military construction and offshore construction — and by consolidating collaboration with the auxiliary industry and with the university; and from there, and supported by technology, regaining civil naval construction in order to regain employment volume and generate wealth in the comarca. Ferrol would have facilities, experience and reputation — all of public property — and we must take advantage of them. We also call for initiative in the energy, initiative and ambition sector. Galicia has energy resources — water, wind and biomass —. We can be a power in renewable energy generation, we can make a rational and sustainable planning of the exploitation of these resources, compatible with the natural environment and rural life, compatible with a fundamental fisheries sector in our country. And we can also exploit our resources for our own benefit, can't we? Why shouldn't we have power if they're us? Or we can do all the opposite, which was the option that the government of Faixóo chose: to plan businesses according to their own interests and for their particular benefit. Government Fexóo has sought to convince us that administrative simplification is synonymous with or guaranteed for business promotion, and has caused a genuine disguise: avalanche of projects, social alarm, judgments that annul actions by the Board, legal insecurity and closure of companies. Yes, it caused closure of companies. Because when companies saw that to install wind farms in Galicia no one will ask them what they call "local manufacturing fee," they went to produce where they would be demanded — for example, in France. The design that we apply to the exploitation of our energy resources is a fundamental, absolutely essential issue, which will condition our future to good or bad. We can go to a sustainable design of demanding standards or we can sacrifice our natural environment and rural life. We can demand the propellers of wind farms that push or participate in associated industrial projects or we can import all the machines and all the technology. We can exploit at least a part of our energy resources through a public enterprise that works with social criteria and business promotion or we can continue to allow the cartel of large electricians to impose undue and illegitimate prices on us and put against cuts to industry and families. I have finally left research, development and innovation, the vault key and the common denominator of the twenty proposals that we bring today on this motion for the reindustrialization of our country. The R & D+i is not only support for other activities, it is an economic sector itself, a sector where knowledge and human factor are fundamental. It's over. We have twenty proposals which are summarized in three requirements: commitment, political initiative and ambition. We are committed to saving the activity and employment of sectors and businesses in crisis — such as Alcoa, Alu Iberian or Barreras —; commitment to participate actively and directly in the solution, both in social capital and in the strategic direction. We demand an initiative to lead the model change in important sectors, such as automotive, public naval or energy, to develop and promote our own projects, to take advantage of our country's capabilities according to our own and legitimate interests. And we demand ambition as a country, ambition to keep up with the best, the ones going forward; ambition to make a winning bet, a bet on research, development and innovation; ambition to compete in knowledge, technology and advanced products and services; ambition to achieve the virtuous circle of a sustainable industry, because without ambition, as without industry, there is no future. Thank you and nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the other groups. Mr Seco García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am not the one who believes that the government of Nuñez Feijóo abandons its competences in industrial matters with bad intentions. I am sure that this process that Galicia suffers from deindustrialization is of concern to them. But every day I have more clear that they are unable to take the reins of this country, that they do not know how to make policies useful for the industrial development of Galicia and that they lack a project for the productive fabric of our country — and much more after hearing their voice in this Parliament when he said yesterday that the only industrial problem that Galicia has is the high price of energy, than we will talk about today in the afternoon. We have recently launched an initiative in the face of the serious industrial situation in Galicia to call for a pact between all political groups and the social and economic agents of this country. But once again it has been demonstrated the passivity of a Greek government that, despite having full competence in industrial matters, prefers to remain static and shoot against the Government of the State before looking for solutions to try to recover a damaged productive tissue. The balance of the German Government's industrial policy over the past 13 years is clearly negative. If we make a journey through our territory, we can start with, for example, agricultural farms, which are in extreme gravity, losing money by selling under production costs. It's a sector with no political orientation since the Union, which means, despite the fact that 40% of all state production is Welsh, we only contribute 11% of all state-wide billing and 7% of all Spain's employment. And this, Mr. Puy — although not here — is not the fault of the high price of energy. If we talk about the forest sector, even though Galicia has 50% of its wood production across Spain, we only provide 13% of its state income and a very similar percentage of its employment. And this, even though it seems like a lie to Mr. Puy, is not the fault of the price of energy either. The future of Ence is still in the air, with a Council of Galicia which seems to be comfortable with the closure of this company, for not having for many years the ability to offer physical space alternatives to a company that in the future cannot continue in its current location by a court ruling. And this, even though it looks like Mr. Puy, is not the fault of the price of energy either. We have the Navy shining in a deep industrial crisis, with an aluminum factory that survives thanks to the mobilizations of its workers, the pressure of the marine neighborhood and the actions of the state to prevent the closure. We see it as a company like Close Vestas, in a more relocation process, without the Board putting into operation the necessary mechanisms that keep the production of wind components in Viveiro. And this, even though it seems like a lie to Mr. Puy, is not the fault of the price of energy either. If we look at Ferrolterra, the only policy that happens to the People's Party is to bring to Parliament on several occasions an initiative to ask Navantia to build a "bridge ship", after paralyzing the construction of frigates by spurish interests when Rajoy ruled "eme dot" and to take the public company Navantia to the economic breakdown. And believe me, Mr. Puy, that this is not to blame for the price of energy either. While this happens, Siemens-Gamesa closes in the Somozas in front of his eyes, and vice president Conde sucks up in this Parliament explaining how they paralyze the wind sector, a sector in which they managed to have absolutely all the angry world: wind promoters, auxiliary companies, neighbors affected by the installation of parks, ecological entities, agricultural organizations, etc. And believe me, gentlemen of the People's Party, that this is not derived from the price of energy either. At the Bridges they didn't even have policies to cope with the energy transition. They were unable for seven years of Mariano Rajoy's government and the 13th of Feijóo to carry out public policies so that this process would not be traumatic and a fair transition would occur. And, as you know, this crisis is not even derived from the current energy prices. In Ourense there is not even waiting for the Government of Greece to talk about how to industrialize this province! Maybe Ourense has little industry derived from the current energy price. In the Comarca of the Alu Iberian Coruña, there are still no solutions to look for an investor, even though the government has competence to do so. The refinery is without public policies from the Galician Union that bet on diversifying its activities that help keep its future in a world of decarbonization. On the Death Coast, they are unable to enforce a judicial sentence that obliges them to maintain their jobs in Xeal to continue managing their hydroelectric activity. And believe me, gentlemen of the People's Party, that Jeal, as a company, has a high energy price, it's not wrong for him, because he's dedicated to selling it, among other things. In the private naval of Vigo templates such as Barreras or Vulcano are in a terrible crisis, not finding the support of the Autonomic Administration to boost this sector. And it's not to blame either for the price of energy. The car sector sees how the crisis of microchips closes complete production lines at the Stellantis factory and with it hundreds of jobs are lost without the German Government doing absolutely nothing to support it. And you believe me that the crisis in the car sector is not the fault of the price of energy either. And we could continue for hours talking about the industrial crisis in Galicia. But this crisis is also ratified in the official data that you, gentlemen of the People's Party, publish. Galicia and Feijóo lost weight in the Spanish industry as a whole in terms of both production volume and employment. The analysis of the gross added value of the manufacturing and energy extractive industries shows the continued decrease of their weight in the total gross added value, with a loss of the annual environment of 0.2 %. In the past legislation, the industrial production index decreased by 2.5 % in Galicia, six times as much as in the whole of Spain, and in 2019 it dropped by 5.6% while the rest of the state grew by 0.7%. In terms of employment, since Feijóo governs Galician Union, industrial employment has decreased by 11.1%. The best example of their industrial policies is to see what they promised in 2015, when they approved the famous Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, the typical Galician board document to justify that they do something and that remains in absolutely nothing. They promised to reach — listen to me well — by 2020 with an increase in the industrial sector up to 20% of the German GDP and the creation of nothing but 50,000 new jobs in the industry. I wonder what the data for 2020, gentlemen of the People's Party. Did anyone from the German Government assume responsibilities for that breach? They have the Igape, which should be the main public agent with which the Galician Union counts to carry out its industrial policy, completely underutilized. If you look at the initial economic items and then you see the actual execution of the expenditure in the subsequent budgetary exercises, it's a bit puzzling as you see the companies drowning in Galicia and what is being used. Of the 306 million Igape had for the triennium from 2016 to 2018, they only executed a little more than half. But in 2019, which budgeted 160 million, they executed less than half. And by 2020 they budgeted 130 million but didn't execute more than 70%. It is clear from this data that we can say that there is no model of Nuñez Feijóo's governments in industrial activity, but for Mr Puy and the People's Party, the only problem is the high price of energy. We ask them again to move forward towards new ways of action in industrial policy, with technological change redefining public action mechanisms in industrial activity. With the emergence of new activities and new forms of production, they should strengthen this structural transformation, and the central element of this new scenario should be knowledge, which would have to lead our economy towards greater productivity. It is essential to improve the efficiency of R & D+i policies, to support entrepreneurship and to stimulate organizational change and technological modernisation of infrastructures. It is necessary to establish a realistic and visionary industrial policy that will allow Galicia to have the opportunity to win its future on the stage of Industry 4.0 — even more in a context where the enlargement of the European Union and the crisis have brought with it the establishment of facilities for the relocation of Galician companies to other territories of the European Union. A new industrial policy is necessary and urgent, since this sector is strategic because of its ability to generate jobs with better wages, as well as greater quality and stability in employment. And the said reindustrialization must be complemented by measures that foster digital transformation, in addition to the ecological transition with social justice. Now, for such an ambitious goal, it is essential to stop populism on a complex subject and not think that in a market economy like Europe everything will be resolved with the nationalization of companies, a measure that should be the last resort. Every time a company in Galicia has problems the solution for the BNG is to ask the State for its nationalization. And if they don't propose to nationalize, they make public opinion believe that everything is resolved by giving greater participation to nationalist social agents in business decisions or simply putting the so-called "galego" on some supposed solutions without any kind of technical justification, as if this had a magical effect. So by sharing some of the measures presented by the Galego Nationalist Block in this motion, we think that others are mere occurrences or an election call to pose nationalism as the solution to the industrial problems that our industry has. Some of those who propose do not comply with the current legality and others simply seek easy solutions for complex problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u54	You have to finish, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u55	I'm done. Yes, always with the money of that evil Spanish state that seems to be a disaster for Galicia less when you need their economic and political support to solve the problems of a territory like the Greek that drowns because the Beijóo Union, with full competences in industry, has no kind of project for our productive fabric. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u57	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. After seeing the overacting nationalist and the overacting socialist, after seeing that BNG roar as a lion against the People's Party of Galicia and mauling as a beautiful kitten against the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, after seeing the PSdeG-PSOE all its time defending the magnificent energy policy of the government of Pedro Sánchez, after such overacting, I would like to invite this House to speak seriously about the Galician industry. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is not experiencing an industrial crisis. I'm going to give you some data that are the best vaccine against nationalist demagogy and socialist demagogy. The Greek economy has resisted the impact of the pandemic better than the state average. During the year 2020 or GDP in Spain fell by 10.8%; in Galicia, by 8.9%. According to the latest IGE data, we closed the year 2021 with an increase in GDP of 5.3%, which places us above the Spanish average. If we talk specifically about industrial production, the industrial production index in Galicia grows more than in Spain as a whole, 9.3% in Galicia and 7.4% in the average of Spain. In November 2021 — the last of which we have data — Galicia continues to grow at its export rate. The accumulated exports to November amounted to EUR 23,122 million and now exceed the historical record of the entire year 2019. Also, the value added data from the industrial sector shows a growth that is much higher than the average of the state set. According to the fourth quarter of 2021 EPA, the rate of unemployment in Galicia is 11%, 2.3 points less than the national measure. In January, he lowered his registered unemployment and reached the lowest figures in a January month of the entire historical series. As for the same month of the previous year, it is 17.2% less, and we continue at levels below twelve years ago, Mr Seco. On debt — according to data from the Banco de España — in the third quarter of 2021 Galicia is the third autonomous community of the common regime with a lower debt ratio. That's the reality you deny. For Mr. Seco nothing has to do with the price of electricity. There's an energy crisis that causes an industrial crisis, but the price of electricity is going to be the cause! Look, Mr. Seco, of course it's the cause! And you know why? Because the price of megavatio/hour in Spain is 122 euros per megavatio, when in France it is 50 euros per megavatio and in Germany it is 36 euros per megavatio. Of course, the energy crisis is behind industrial problems that affect not only Galicia, they affect the whole Spanish territory! Today the BNG comes to this full with a salad of proposals, with a cut and paste. I'm sorry if you feel bad but this is a cut and take of initiatives that the BNG has been presenting over the past eighteen years in this House and that this House has been systematically refusing again and again — and not only the majority of the People's Party, but also the Socialist Party; it has just told you Mr. Seco that they don't share his recipes either. They cut off and take many initiatives and try to convince us that Ana Pontón has a plan to reindustrialize Galicia. Caramba with Ana Pontón, after eighteen years he made a plan to reindustrialize Galicia! That's it, three sheets. Noraboa!, eighteen years and three folios. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document from the stage.]] These are the recipes of the reindustrialization of Mrs. Ana Pontón, when the truth is that everyone knows that the main enemy of the industry in Galicia has always been called "Galego Nationalist Block." [[Applause]] You've always been against everything. They've always been against all the advances, against everything. They wanted to close Reganosa, they wanted to close and shut down the thermal power plant of the Bridges and Meirama in Cerceda. They wanted to close and they wanted to close Ence. They keep working all over the place to get it. They're against any wind project, they're against mining, they're against marine wind, they're against Citroën's expansion, too. But are you in favor of something? Yes, they're in favor of nationalizing. That's your mantra, nationalizing. And that's why they come today with this proposal. They propose to nationalize Alu Iberian, they propose to nationalize Barriers, nationalize Vulcan, they propose to create a public energy company, nationalize hydroelectric power plants... Mr. Fernández, it is wrong of the century. You live in a planned economy of pre-democratic Soviet regimes. That's your economic model, that's your industrial model. That's what you're defending here today. Look, we believe in public-private collaboration, believe in it and practice it. We help companies that have enlargement projects, have modernization projects, have diversification projects. We help companies in trouble, of course we are there! We believe in public-private collaboration. But what you're going to do is propose to nationalize businesses in the creba, that's your proposal. And I'd tell you not to demagogy, because you know what's going on? Nationalization is not the recipe for anything, because Alcoa will not reopen, whether public or private, if there is no competitive price for electricity that allows you to compete with the European environment. That's the reality. Therefore, its recipe is pure demagogy that is not supported. Blame the Junta of the situation in which Navantia is located — a public building that depends on the Government of Spain — is an unprecedented exercise of cynicism, lords of the Galician Nationalist Block. What's going on? That you have not allowed — because it forbids Mrs. Ana Pontón, who is of note, who is of congratulations these days — to criticize the Socialist Party. And, therefore, Mr. Fernández has to come up here saying that the fault of the situation in which the public shipyards in the Ferrol River — which depend on the Government of Spain — is that of the Union of Galicia. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Look, you're talking about industrial plans. If you want to talk about the district of Ferrolterra, is that this plan has the form of a state pact for Ferrolterra, a state pact that we have sent to that president that you have named, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, and that since May has given no answer to that proposal. You ask for an industrial plan from the Navy. It's just that the true industrial plan of the Navy is to keep Alcoa open and not stop the tanks. So, if anyone has a plan against the Navy is the Socialist Party, those you vote for support wherever they can. That's the reality. Mr. Seco, check the electricity prices. The party in Galicia that presides over "the sister-in-law of Spain" is responsible for applauding an ecological transition that attacks the Galician industry — against the industry all over Spain, but we are concerned about Galician. But I think you have other concerns and are in other things. And they come here to applaud. Well, there you are, but of course they don't represent Galicia in any case, they're representing themselves and they're applauding what the Government of Spain does, thinking that this will give them a patent course. Why, don't you see where Mr. Knight and you are? They are — precisely for that reason, because they do not defend Galicia — at the pole of this Greek Parliament, that is the reality. That's the indisputable reality. Because not to defend Galicia are at the mercy of this Parliament. Not even justifying the unjustifiable the rectified PSdEG-PSOE. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Galego Nationalist Block, they demand responsibilities where they are, because there's an energy policy that's looting the industry across the country, the Galician and the one across Spain. There's some unsavory tariffs that make our companies unable to compete internationally. That's why companies are closed. If we're talking about Alcoa or Alu Iberian, they're incapable of being competitive at the price of electricity caused by the socialists that you put in Moncloa's palace. If we're talking about Cerceda or the Bridges, they're closed by ideological and dogmatic policies of a misunderstood ecological transition that led to the closure of thermal power plants that could continue to operate between 15 and 20 years. We shut down thermal power stations in Spain when other countries are opening them right now. Is that responsible? Is that serious? That's a mistake, that's not understanding the word "transition." If we talk about Navantia — which since the Socialists took over the Government of Spain has lost millionaire contracts, fundamental international contracts for the burden of work — they have refused to charge that bridge boat after delaying sine die the frigates F-110. And the BNG continues to rule with that Socialist Party which punishes the public naval of the Ferrol River. That's the reality, Mr. Fernández. If we talk about Vestas or Siemens-Gamesa, they are companies that leave Galicia, but they don't leave Spain because they don't believe in the energy policy of the government of Pedro Sánchez. And yes, of course, you talked about many companies. But curiously, Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u58	You have to finish, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u59	...he forgot one — finished already, President. He forgot to talk about Ence, because the Ence workers seem to be less, they're second-rate workers. These BNGs don't spend ten seconds in the Galician Parliament of Ence. They don't talk. Look, I think this initiative comes to wash away the bad conscience of a BNG who is as responsible as the Socialist Party in the energy crisis that affects the entire industry in Spain and, by extension, also the Galician. If they want to serve Galicia, if they want to be useful, they support the Government of Greece in their claims against the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u61	They support us to prevent the socialist government from continuing to drown our industries. On the contrary, if they don't, I think you're going to turn the Galician Nationalist Block into a cooperative of nationalist freighters into deputies and municipalities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso has the floor to close the debate on this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u63	Well, we've seen once again that the People's Party is the fifth anniversary of immobilism defending overseas a way of making politics that cost us 12,000 jobs in the industrial sector. And their interventions are to promote rigidity and lies in debates to conceal that the government of Faixóo is a government that escapes from its true responsibilities of government, to hide that its project is that of a country without competence, a small, simplified country, a genuine self-service. [[Applause]] They didn't give any argument justifying the refusal to rescue the Greek companies in crisis. Why can the Union participate with 25% in the capital of Reganosa — which you mentioned — and can't enter the capital of Alu Iberian or Barreras? Is Reganosa more strategic than the others? What's the barrier? How do you measure this? But we don't need to get into this discussion, because Junta also participates in other companies that are not strategic, right? These days are in the press, for example, the case of Biomasa Forestal, a bridge company that manufactures pellets and is involved by Xesgalicia and the Inega. The question to which the government of Fexóo and the People's Party have to answer is why the Joint Renunciation of rescuing Galician companies in crisis but presents motions for Sepi to rescue them. It must therefore be lawful and convenient to rescue companies. [[Applause]] But if SEPI does not meet the demands of the Board, the Board should play an active role in the rescue of companies, at least by presenting an industrial plan and compromising its own resources as far as possible. Since this would be a way to participate in the much more constructive and much more incisive political debate, to present itself at the tables that always consist of these cases and to say, we have this project, we have these partners and we are willing to put this money on. I insist, it would be much more constructive than accusing others of inaction without doing anything at all. The problem, or one of the problems, of the Faesóo governments is that they can't become models of anything and therefore their criticisms lack credibility. What argument does Junta have about not promoting a public energy company? They say they're models of another century. What kind of argument is this when the evidence is that European and Chinese public companies are belling in our country? They say they can't guarantee a public company at competitive prices. Let them tell the French, that they have just forced their public company to keep the price of light up. Here are the problems of Fexóo again, because, when one lacks rational arguments, explicit and solvent arguments, the photos hugging the president of Iberdrola become the only plausible explanation. What argument did they have to maintain the productive restrictions in Navantia-rio de Ferrol? [[Applause]] None. We'll have to find the explanation too in some photo or take it out of its history for these forty years. And the only contrasting fact that comes from these restrictions is that there were other territories that occupied the space and the offer that previously occupied Ferrol, so it seems that you govern the dictates of interests other than Galicia. What argument did they give to refuse an energy storage center on the Bridges? None. But now they regret that it's going to be in Extremadura. What do you plan for The Bridges? What argument did they make to refuse the elaboration and impulse of a plan for the Navy? None, chest blows and nothing else. That we break with the PSOE governments in the municipalities and in the deputies is ultimately their solution for everything, or, in other words, that we hand over those governments to you, to the People's Party. But the example of what you do in the German Government doesn't lead you to think they're going to do anything better in the municipalities and in the deputies. We, of course, would not let the big German industrial companies fall without doing anything. And today we do what we have to do as opposition and proposition leaders — as my colleague Luís says — here we bring 20 proposals to reactivate and reindustrialize the country, twenty proposals with explicit and clear arguments, prepared from our abilities and focused solely on our legitimate interests and our rights as people. We have brought twenty proposals for Ence — look at the motion — or for Repsol, twenty proposals to break with this policy of simplifying and reducing Galicia, twenty proposals loaded with commitment to the industrial sector, loaded with political initiative to lead the country in this time of profound changes, and loaded with ambition to bet decisively by a modern Galicia at the height of the best. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Álvarez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u65	Yes, thank you. I would like to speak in accordance with Rule 76.3 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and with regard to a statement made by Mr Tellado in his speech. I understand that it affects the dignity and decor of this parliamentary group, as a member of the Socialist Party of Galicia, by referring to the president, Mrs Carmela Silva, as "the sister-in-law of Spain".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u66	Wait a minute, Mr. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u67	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u68	Ask the word, and I have to say whether or not I give it to her. You've got three minutes, then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u69	Madam President, I'm sorry for my mistake. In fact, I had to be granted the use of the word. I believe, Mr Tellado, that this kind of statement about a person who legitimately holds a position as president of the Socialist Party of Galicia at nothing enriches the debate, which was about an aspect of electrointensive energies. On the contrary, I believe that they devalue parliamentary debate in an unnecessary way and I think they are more suited to certain prime time television programs than to a parliamentary debate. I would therefore ask him to withdraw that statement. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u70	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Do you withdraw the statement, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u71	Thank you, President. I believe that what weakens the image of Galician politics is to have appointed Mrs. Silva president of the PSdEG-PSOE with the shadow of doubt which weighs on her in the case of the plug of her sister-in-law. And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u72	Mr. Tellado, the question was very clear. Do you or do you not remove it? You don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u73	Yes, yes, I'm explaining my...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u74	You have no task, Mr. Tellado. Take it or not, just that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u75	I'm telling you not to withdraw it, but to ratify my words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u76	All right. Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We moved on to the third motion on the agenda. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández, on the policy of the Government of Greece regarding the advertising of statistical data
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u77	No amendments have been tabled to this motion. Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor for his defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u78	Thank you, Madam President. By congratulating only what our spokesman said, to accept our decoration, Mr. Tellado would have to have some kind of decoration himself, which I think manifestly is not the case. This motion from which I am going to speak comes — by the way, a relatively little glamorous motion, but which I believe is of the utmost importance for the quality of government of our community — of an interpellation in which we were basically asking why information on contracts that legally binding the Union is to facilitate and which in January of 2022 was only available for 2018. I mean, we're going three years late for at least one information that should be made available on an annual basis. The advisor then told me that you would provide a report on the recruitment data for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, which they actually did these days. What's the matter? You're doing it three years late. Second problem: the data shows that you are following the lead of the autonomous communities of Spain in the amount of contracts awarded to your fingers. Because if in 2018 it was 47,5 % — between minors and negotiated — it is now 33.5 % the minors, 3.60 % the negotiated without advertising and 2,1 % the negotiated with advertising, which in total make up about 40% we can assume that they have given their finger and that in any case they have not complied with a basic principle of public procurement as it is that of free competition. Better than the year 2018? Yes, but it's very bad data, very worrying and far from, for example, the State, which affects more than 75% of its contracts by open procedure. That is why we propose, firstly, that the Board make public on its transparency portal within a period which does not exceed four months after the end of each year the statistical data on the percentage in budgetary volume of contracts awarded by the Union itself, and also by all entities in the autonomous public sector, through each of the procedures provided for in the legislation on public sector contracts. And why would we ask for this? For a simple and obvious reason. Just as late justice is not justice, late transparency is not transparency, which understands any and — I am sure — it fully understands the Government of Galicia. We still follow the queue in transparency and in the speed at which the data is made available. Secondly, we ask that the Board provide the data of minor contracts, to which it refers the same article, in an open manner and in a way that facilitates and does not make its analysis difficult. Because the way it provides them currently prevents the processing of that data, prevents them from editing; and it seems expressly done to make their analysis difficult instead of facilitating it, which we are certain is not at all random. Thirdly, we request that the Board ensure the residual nature of the minor procurement in favour of procedures with full legal guarantees, such as the simplified and supersimplified open ones which are provided and regulated in the Public Sector Contracts Act itself, and prohibits the processing of minor contracts which do not comply with the requirements of the Independent Contract Regulation and Supervision Office Resolution of 6 March 2019, so as to publish an instruction on minor contracts. That resolution, which the Board systematically fails, establishes among other things that the smaller contract lacks publicity, thereby restricting freedom of access to the procurement procedures of potential bidders. The smaller contract restricts free competition and equal treatment between economic operators, affects the principle of transparency, and this lack of transparency affects the efficiency and efficiency of the management of public funds and the principle of good governance. It also says that resolution — the resolution that you systematically fail — that, when it is found that a given benefit is recurrent and continued over time and does not vary substantially, it should be channelled towards ordinary procurement procedures. Thus, the residual nature of the minor contract would be made effective as a tool for the needs of limited length and temporary duration, which does not at all do the autonomous administration of Galicia, in which the minor contract, far from being residual, represents thirty percent of the contract. Because the abuse of the minor recruitment of the Galician Union, taking into account the possibilities of open, simplified and oversimplified procedures based on Article 159 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, implies a weakening of the possibilities of access of pemmes to the public procurement market, which then operates in Galicia in an opaque manner, without transparency, competition or publicity — and with serious risks of corruption in public procurement, in addition to preventing efficiency in the management of public resources. Where direct ad with no advertising, no competition or planning is impossible, innovative and cost-effective solutions for managing public services are created. Where the flat rate of the contract limit is lower all is worth 1 euro less than 40,000 in works, and 1 euro less than 15,000 in supplies and services. And it is impossible for economic operators who lack access to informal mechanisms and networks to have access to public procurement markets owned by a transparent and democratic society. Fourthly, we propose that the Board proceed to establish and publish in advance each year the planning of the recruitment to carry out in each exercise, such as — and in this we are nothing original — as indicated in Article 28.4 of the Public Sector Contracts Act. It is a matter of making it easier for different economic operators, especially pemes, to have criteria for access to the important public procurement market. It is a very clear article — 28.4 of the Public Sector Contracts Act — that you, to vary, fail. Because this article, in particular, provides that public sector entities will schedule the public procurement activity that will take place in the budgetary exercise or in multiannual periods, and will inform them of their recruitment plan in advance. But this legal provision -- the provision of a law -- is being breached by the Galician Council. Again I have to remind you here that the laws are to be fulfilled; they are not optional for you, as they seem to think. Of course, they are not for citizenship, which has to pay taxes and fulfill every day all kinds of laws, but which you can observe as well every day the laws that affect them as administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion stems from our concern - important concern - about the opacity of the Galician Union contracts, but also from the fact that the aggregated data of autonomic recruitment published, both in 2018, which were the only ones we had up to two weeks ago, as recently published, covering up to 2021, show that, according to these data, contrasted with the Advisory Board of State Contracts, the Galician Union continues to be the most autonomous administration that resorts to direct procurement in Spain, because it adds 4 out of 10 euros to finger, finger! with minor or negotiated contracts. These data also show that the minor contract is the main recruitment figure in our autonomic administration, despite being a method of recruitment designed to be exceptional. That is to say, again, as I said at the time of the interpellation, in the board what should be exceptional becomes precisely the opposite, it becomes the norm, in the common, in the ordinary. And the publicity given to these contracts I also have to say that it's total and it's still totally and absolutely insufficient, in addition to being expressly designed to make their analysis difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fundamental in democracy to comply with the laws, and it is fundamental to subjecting - especially the public administration, the public administrations - to that compliance, which is called the principle of legality. It means that the administration works on the basis of law and not on the political whim, which you like so much. In this matter you do not comply with the law and therefore lower the quality of our democracy and worsen our democracy. And there's no need to guarantee our democracy, we have to look after it, because it's in a progressively complicated situation, increasingly complex, increasingly disaffected by citizenship and increasingly distrustful, and this has a lot to do with everything I'm talking about, everything we're talking about today. And the most important administration of Galicia, like the Junta, which is legally bound to something as basic as publishing the data of the contracts it holds, planning the contract, to adjudicate contracts following public, open and competitive procedures, systematically violates those legal obligations, breaking with the principles of transparency and legality, which are fundamental pillars of our democracy, and, of course, paving the ground for corruption. That's why I'm asking them for support for this motion, and it would seem quite incomprehensible and inexplicable that they didn't support it. Nothing else and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u79	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to share a feeling, because here, in the previous motion - and that was a motion on industry and that no city or province has been lied to - was fulfilled, a tradition of this Parliament, which is that every time you lie to Ourense is a negative fact. Take a good look! It's always for a negative fact, either for depopulation, for aging, for corruption or for lack of industrialization. And the annoying and toughest thing is that it's always true. In fact, today, as the People's Party has recently been doing, Mrs. Silva has been lied to, also by connection with a alleged case of corruption, when, in Ourense, there is a person convicted of 104 cases of corruption and nothing happens. It's more, it's disabled, but the judicial resolution is violated and it's still indirectly active. [[Applause]] I'm telling you as a citizen of Ourense because surely — believe me — the treatment that citizens and citizens suffer is quite hard. We want to anticipate the Socialist Parliamentary Group's vote in favour of the motion. We understand that compliance with the lawfulness of transparency and increasing planning and predictability in the functioning of the Administration can help economic and social development and the prevention of corruption. And surely the Galician Union is not fulfilling its obligations in the matter of transparency. And we don't say it, nor is it a matter of many years ago, but it's the November 9, 2021 Board of Auditors' Report on Staff Expenditure Control, which determines and concludes that the Galician Council, in terms of staff, does not properly fulfil almost 50% of its legal transparency obligations. And as you can check on your computers -- if you know how to use them, and not like your fellow Congressman -- if you access the Galician Board Transparency website, you can see that the Public Service staff data is still in July 2020. [[Murmurs.]] They're not up to date. And more importantly, it's curious that you put even on your own website that should update every six months. Well, they're already three semesters behind that update. And what does it matter? For if it is important because it could allow political control of what the Galician Union is doing and see and check how since the government of Nuñez Feijóo - Sorry, since the President of Galliza Nuñez Feijóo - the temporality — depending on the sector - has multiplied by 2 or 3. In any case, he shot precariousness and temporality in the Public Service. And apart from that, of course, how important is that precariousness, that temporality, in operation, I no longer say in the precarious and abused people? Because, according to Galician Union itself, that precariousness, that failure to provide jobs and jobs permanently prevents independence, objectivity and neutrality of the functioning of the Public Administration. In any case, certainly by amending Mr Alangüena's kindness or naivety, we believe that transparency, a more transparent functioning of the Galician Public Administration, will not involve the elimination of corruption and arbitraryness in the functioning of the Public Administration. Let me give you an example. Do you know what was the most transparent self-proclaimed public administration in 2017? Bingo!: the Provincial Deputation of Ourense. The Ourense Provincial Deputy, through a company with which it had no purely commercial relations, was declared — in 2021 also, but already in 2017 — the first in Spain in transparency. Well, 2017. In spite of this self-proclamation, this award granted by a company with which it had a commercial relationship to the Provincial Deputy of Ourense, it turns out that the Board of Auditors comes and already in the financial year 2018 says that 84% of the grants granted by the Provincial Deputy of Ourense were fingered and that 80% of the contracts concluded were smaller contracts, even though they dealt with them, even though they broke the quantitative limit in order to benefit in 70% of the same cases the five companies. By the way, that orientation on transparency was carried out through a minor contract granted to the current secretary of organization of the Socialist Party. Anyway... Despite the fact that the House of Ourense was the most transparent in the state - and the results of the IGE and the INE accreditation -, of course, there is no guarantee of good management or commitment to the fight against corruption. And that's what we have to be. That's what citizenship is asking us to do, and that's what we've been asking the People's Party since the Galician Nationalist Block: a real commitment to the fight against corruption and not to continue as it has so far. And they're not worth those hollow words and those cynical words or those plans that have not been fulfilled since the beginning -- from the beginning, by the way, late -- that are not being fulfilled. And for that, it's enough to remember those hollow words, those surprising and cynical words of a high office of the People's Party who on television said that he was totally in agreement that "the shames" disappear, and that in political life we have to distinguish between wheat and straw, and weeks later he was arrested for money laundering, criminal organization, influence trafficking, bribery, embezzlement of public funds, prevarication and fraud. The words are not enough, ladies and gentlemen, there has to be a real and sincere commitment to eliminate corruption. Corruption — not in the words of the Block, but in the words of the European Parliament — prevents economic and social development and punishes the most vulnerable sectors of society. [[Applause]] And that real commitment, if any, to corruption does not pity what day it is, the day also comes from Galician Union to not answer the questions of control of this opposition and even if it is denying the information, the documentation required by the opposition groups. Because if since the Galician Nationalist Block we've been asking for for for months and we haven't been able to complete the project and the reports on Vigo Justice City yet, it's not just scientific curiosity, it's because there's about 30% and 40% -- poor planning -- about the initially bid. [[Applause]] When we ask for files and reports on senior residences, it is neither — it could be — for scientific curiosity, but it is because of non-compliance with the attention of the older people who are living or who have lived in senior residences, and even because of the contractual non-compliances that since Galician Union are agreeing. When we ask for information about a dubious purchase of the Galician Board in the Council of Ourense, of course, it's simply because there are doubts, tremendous doubts, about the procedure followed and its legality. Nor does he sympathize with a policy of transparency and with a commitment against corruption which had prevented the prosecution of crimes by the Administration of Justice and violated rules for the financing of political parties; by the way, lords, in Madrid, Valencia, Salamanca or Santiago de Compostela. Or more recently — and I also return to Ourense — that a mayor who exempts some builders from paying 10% of the urban transfer, which involved a million and a half euros, to the detriment of the public archives; that is, the citizenship of Ourense. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, aside from measures of transparency, of plans that are not complied with, they are actually committed to corruption, because it can happen to an experienced Member of this party, present at the moment, who is used to giving lessons to the other Members and Members of this House, who believe that corruption in the financing of political parties was born with the filesa case. We forget that there had already been a Naseiro case before – they forget or excuse –. What's going on? That, after twenty years, the same protagonists of the Naseiro case are again involved in cases of corruption in Gürtel. Either we cut the corruption or we're doomed to reproduce. As you have said - and I repeat - the European Parliament, this has a special transcendence, not only in the discredit of institutions, but in the most vulnerable sectors and classes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u81	Thank you, Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u82	Mr. Aranguena, as a previous question, I want to tell you - and I want you to chair this debate - that the Council of Galicia always complies with the current rules and, of course, with the principle of legality. But, in case you doubt this statement, I would like to remind you that there is a body of officials and officials and delegates from each council that ensure that there are no fractions in contractual matters. We're going to meet you a little bit and we know you don't care about everything, because, besides constantly missing out on it, you like to scatter garbage and destroy the honorability and honesty of all the world. But I don't share that, at least I'm going to take part in their plots. And I cannot agree that I doubt the work and rigor of public personnel in the service of the Self-Government, which are above any ideological issue and any political whim. By the way, Mr. Arangüena, if a car that costs 60,000 euros looks like a cochaz, I suppose a 108,000 euros salary will look like a soldier, for not talking about President Tourin's car, which cost 480,000 euros; eight times more than that cochaz than you're talking about. [[Applause]] So, lessons from Galician socialists, none. [[Applause]] Mr. Orange, look, you didn't have any credibility in your intervention of the interpellation of the month of December. Do you remember that you said that the Government of Spain didn't have to implement the directive on the protection of complainants? Listen to me back there -- that, now, as you put it a little bit back, I don't know if you listen to me --? See, last January 27, the European Commission opened a record of non-compliance with the Spanish Kingdom for not doing the transposition before its entry into force on December 17. Mr. Tabares, what do you think of what International Transparency says about this? See: "International Transparency Urges Spain to legislate against corruption". Spain is getting worse in corruption, according to International Transparency. This since the rule of that gentleman you put there, the one who made the most veteran of this House - which, by the way, I congratulate you, has been there for 18 years. That is a veteran, and you know exactly what you sign. Look, Mr. Aranguena, you said that in that plea. So we, lessons from you, in compliance with legislation, zero. And look, the difference of the Government of Spain, the Union of Galicia if it applies to the regulations. It is a law, by the way, that was voted by the Socialist Party. It was the only democratic pact that voted the Socialist Party of Galicia at the time, at the end of 2015. Mr Villoslada, an illustrious Socialist Member of the Coruña - by the way, you are constantly trying to amend the plan, and try to rewrite the law that they voted for in 2015 -. And as I know I'm going to get what we're from the PP Vox sector and then I don't have a replica shift, because, look, I'm telling you that in six months, Mr. Arangéna, you've just turned out to be the tax collector of the corrupt PSOE fractus -- yes, yes, surprisingly -- to look like that protagonist of the film Los Other, of Amenábar, who kept seeing dead all around her and eventually turned out that she was dead. [[Applause]] Look, in relation to the delay in publishing contracts, Mr. Orange, as to the publication dates of the annual reports, which you come here all day to say when you have to publish, I have to tell you that the truth is that I do not know whether you are aware that the law does not speak of a specific periodicity for your publication. In fact, the Galician Union publishes these reports year by year in the first quarter, and so it did until 2020, when the pandemic changed everything. So in relation to the information of the year 2019, which had to be published in the first quarter of the year 2020 -- that is, at the end of March -- because, as you can imagine, I must tell you that the Greek Government was more concerned about the pandemic than about other issues, which, although important, were smaller. The difference between the Government of Spain, which confined the Transparency Portal, the Galician Union did not close the Transparency Portal. The socialists of Spain closed the Transparency Portal. So, lessons, in that matter, zero, Mr. Orange. Obviously, the year 2020 was an extraordinary year and in the year 2021, as you know, it was counted as normal, but it was not possible. And we're still leaving the sixth wave. Well, the councilman already explained to you here the other day that they had planned to extract that data in October, but, because of the circumstances we all know that they happened at the Business Council in the last quarter of the year, in full approval of budgets, it was not possible. They've been committed to publishing them in January, and today is a reality, they're published. Those who are not a reality are those of the Government of Spain, which today have not published in the Transparency Portal that you so much demand the data of the 2021 contracts. What lessons do the socialists want to teach us, Mr. Orange? Look, you guys, they're here all day... Mr. Tabares talked about corruption and so on. Look, they've confined the Transparency Portal, the State Official Gazette has published millions of health supplies by the Government of Spain to unknown management companies, Mr. Aranguena... what do you think? They illegally closed the Congress of Deputies, and this honourable Member has not said so, the Constitutional Court has said so; and the Constitutional Court has also declared the state of alarm illegal. President Sánchez gives press rounds to the Aló style, president, filtering the questions by Moncloa. No, no... you, transparency and opacity, not much. But if we go down to the institutions closest to the citizen, for example, to the deputies, Mr. Tabares said: it's that whenever we talk about the House of Ourense we speak ill. Because you speak negatively, Mr Tabares, but not because there are negative data. You don't like the Dynatra report, which places the so-called Ourense MP in number 1 of the government public information measurement ranking, fulfilling 31 of the 35 indicators. And look, why didn't the other three Members do it -- of course, those governed by socialists and nationalists? Look, the next one in the ranking is the Deputy of Pontevedra, in item 12, fulfilling 18 of the 35 indicators; the one of Lugo, in item 37, fulfilling 10 indicators. [[Mr. Prado del Río shows a document.]] And the Coruña is at the 40th - 54th - with 28.57% of non-compliance with indicators. Ten! You talk things over your fingers. Look, in the Lugo Deputy, the conventions they sign: the red is the PSOE; the green, the BNG; and 4% for the People's Party Town Councils. [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows a chart.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, a suspended round of transparency, and they show a way of governing the dark and opaque institutions presided over by distinguished socialists: that of Pontevedra, by the honorable Carmela Silva, president of the PSdeG, as prior to his leadership in corruption... it seems that Mr. Tabares does not smell that corruption wrong. PSOE's corruption doesn't smell bad. Well, let me come here today to defend Mrs. Carmela Silva, Mr. Tabares...! That's left in your deputy resume! [[Applause]] Look, at Lugo, the provincial leader of the Socialist Party, he has a broad curriculum also in nepotism. And as I know that you like this subject very much, Mr. Arunguena, I ask you, what do you think of the hiring of Mrs. Sonia Verdes in the Lugo Deputy, or the 20,000 euros they gave to UXT, being responsible for President Tomé's brother? Well, look, one thing, Mr. Aranguena. You talked here about percentages of smaller contracts. You said the autonomous community was the one that most minor contracts signed from all over Spain, without referring to any reports or studies or anything; he said so, without more. I recommend that you look at this report : Annual Report on Public Procurement Monitoring in Spain. [[Mr Prado del Río shows the report.]] It's neither the People's Party nor any company that pays the People's Party, it's the Ministry of Finance. No, no, the Ministry of Finance. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, yeah, yeah. And here, for example, you can see the minor contracts of the Pontevedra Parliament. Look, the green, the green, the deputation of the Crown and the deputation of Lugo. [[Murmurs.]] This is from the Ministry of Finance, not from the People's Party. But as you're talking about percentages of smaller contracts, I'm going to set a very clear example for you. Look - we, who are in the Commission 1st - imagine that the Bureau of Commission 1st is a recruitment table, and it turns out that it performs four contracts, three minors, of EUR 18,000 each, and one public contract, with public tender, for a million euros. You'd say, 75% of contracts are smaller. I'd say: 99% of contracts are for open contracts. Depends on how you take the percentage. You take the number, and I ask you to take the amount that is contracted in an open and tender manner. Look, let's take what we've got, Mr Aranguena: "The Government of Sánchez has broken the Transparency Act 1,200 times" - that's this year -. [[Ms. Prado del Río reads press headlines.]] And you think it's bad for us to talk about Spain's sister-in-law. But, look, you're the brother-in-law party, because you don't like to talk about Falcon, but when Mr. Sánchez went to the wedding of his brother-in-law in Falcon they decreed that wedding as a matter of state interest. They were declared on the basis of official secrets, with a franchise law, by the way. That's why they don't take them off; for what they're interested in they don't take them off, for that we use Frankish laws, to cover up the disgrace of Falcon, which, as you know, there's a Greek journalist who already calls "Falcon Fest" because, of course, they went to the Festival of Benicasis at the Falcon, at the wedding of the brother-in-law, at the Falcon... they failed to go to the Tanxugueiras, because, look, what happened to the Tanxugueiras, too, another one. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Spanish Television...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u84	...fix with the Tanjugueras what the Socialist Party is doing every day with Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank BNG for his support for this motion. I said Mr. Tabares that more transparency does not eliminate corruption, I have to tell him that, of course, it is so, but it does help. Without transparency, the fight against corruption is enormously complicated. And I have to say that speaking of transparency and corruption with Mrs. Prado is almost psychedelic, because, Mrs. Prado, I have never been accused of what you said and that literally defined how - you eat - "gift gifts." That's what you said. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] I've never received any "gift" or any other gift. I, before I got in here, because I quote about 20 years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u87	Don't face situations, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u88	...and the day I'm not here I'll continue to be on a daily basis, and I won't receive gifts from anyone's godforsaken, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u89	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u90	So, Mrs. Prado, ethics lessons to me, none. And the Socialist Group, much less. [[Applause]] Because I have to tell you, Mrs. Prado, that you have been blond, though not as blond as in the intervention of Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, when you seemed possessed by some evil spirit. He called me a machist. He said, "Machist, machist, machist..." I don't know why. In any case, not being so clumsy, you've been rather bronca, because you accuse me of nothing less than "striking" and "sparing trash." Well, the truth is, I just talked about data and laws; i.e., plots and garbage, very few. You tell me, to let go of the usual beating, that I'm attacking the administration staff. Well, far from reality. I don't attack the administration staff. The staff of the Administration receive instructions and receive criteria from the leadership of the German Government that you support in this House. And, therefore, the problem is the Government of Galicia, which promotes transparency and promotes recruitment. The problem is not the officials, Mrs Prado. [[Applause]] So you don't listen to the officials. He was talking about the directive on the protection of complainants. He said a file was opened in Spain. You have forgotten that Spain and 23 other countries have been opened because, indeed, 24 of the 27 countries of the European Union are late in the transposition of the directive. Twenty-four, Mrs. Prado! In any case, I'm talking about here — and what I'm talking about here — and what we're proposing has to do with the fact that, point one, you're failing to fulfil the most basic obligations on transparency; and point two, you're not obliged not to hire your finger and not to use the minor contract as the basic figure of the contract, because — straight — the data — and no default, your data — that you publish, determine and demonstrate that four out of ten euros are fingered at the Galician Board and in the administrations, or in the entities, rather, that depend on it. And I think you talked about Dynatra, too. Well, look, Dynatra — indeed, as someone said there — said that in 2017 Mr. Baltar, that the House of Ourense, was the most transparent one in Spain. Dynatra isn't an organization or a serious company, Dynatra is directly a chiringuit that could mount anyone around. A real chiringuit! [[Murmurs.]] But the data from the Board of Auditors determine that, according to this, Mr Baltar gives 80% of the contracts of the Ourense Parliament, by chance, to companies always linked to his party, or 80%!, just as he gives the finger more than 80% of the grants almost always — perhaps — to the councils of his party. A situation that reveals data demonstrating a level of discretion in the allocation of public resources which are improbable from a civilized country, from a country that is no longer democratic, but from a country that is at least civilized. And, look, in December of the year that's just ended, we proposed in the plenary of this House a plan to improve and modernize our autonomous administration on the basis of at least eight axes, indeed, and you didn't approve it. And we talked about transparency and better recruitment. Three weeks ago, you voted against designing a plan to control the management of autonomous public policies. And now you are going to vote against approving this motion, which, in short, the only thing you want and the only one that is asked for it is that the law be met with certain rigour, with a minimum of rigour; that the law be complied with. You're going to vote in order to comply with the law. Therefore, if you do not approve this motion, you will be refusing to comply with the law on transparency and procurement, which states that you have to publish data on contracts, that you have to comply with certain criteria for making smaller contracts, that you have to minimize smaller contracts and that you also have to schedule public procurement. If you do not approve of this motion, you will be practically an anti-system party, you will be a looting party of the public, and you will ultimately make a sad follow-up of your partner Baltar, making, by step, merits to convert Galicia into a banana republic. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u91	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u92	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in connection with the bidding of the contract of the Sogama incineration plant in Cerceda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u93	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonzo. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Galician Union in connection with the industrial crisis that strikes Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against,42; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u94	Finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the policy of the German Government regarding the advertising of statistical data. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u95	We'll stop the meeting until 16 hours. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u96	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with point 3, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Nationalist Block for a Greek public system of people-care services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u97	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good afternoon to all and to all. I would also like to greet, first of all, the people who accompany us today in the rostrum, who came on behalf of the Gaga Interunion Confederation. Let me nominally refer to your secretary-general, Paulo Carril, but I want to extend this greeting to all of the people who accompany us, all of them, to whom we thank in addition to those who are here today, following this debate, which is not an initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego itself, but rather a proposal not of a law of popular impulse promoted by the Galician Interunion Confederation itself. In addition, this initiative reaches this House with more than fifteen thousand signatures, six times more than legally required by the Rules of Procedure, to promote a popular debate in this House. And that I believe - individually, but also collectively - that should be a cause of unanimous recognition for the whole of Parliament, because it is the Greek society, ultimately, through the main trade union organization, the central union majority, who urges the House's groups today - to us too, but also, by extension, to the popular and socialist groups - to debate about something less as are social rights, and also the social rights of a fundamental part of this country as are older people, dependent people and people with disabilities. These days — and you did — read an article in a Spanish media entitled "Nothing has changed in residences two years and 32,000 later". It's a figure of a state holder. And I was asking myself, reading that information, that newspaper report: what about the rest? Has anything changed generally in the care system since the pandemic was decreed and with it the health emergency is about to be two years old, on March 13, 2020 to be exact? Over all these years, throughout all this time, we have seen how the coward-19 has hit — gulped — with all the cruelty and intensity the whole of society, but very especially the most vulnerable people, and, within them, the older people, the dependent people. We saw how the pandemic in these two years put all its legs up and how it turned into a whip for the precarious - extremely poor - care system. The pandemic made what you didn't want to see visible, because you knew it. It was known that things in the residences were not well, among other reasons, because the staff working in the senior residences denounced him publicly and repeatedly before the Social Policy Council, because he was collected by the Board of Auditors reports and because he was denounced by trade union organizations in front of the Labour Inspectorate. And we'll talk a lot, and we'll talk more about residences, but the truth and truth is that in Galicia most of the legally recognized dependent population is at home, it's basically cared for by its family -- who has it -- to be exact, it's attended by some women in their family and a few hours of the home support service because of the degree of dependency they've recognized. There we will focus especially today - because time is limited - the defence or reflection that suggests to the Parliamentary Group of the BNG this initiative. With the latest data on hand, closed to December 31, 2021, of the more than 65,000 people with some degree of dependency recognized in Galicia, 32% are home-help users, 24,636 people. 19% have a family care allowance, 15,263, and 13% have an economic benefit linked to the service, 10,129 people; that is, people, in the latter case, who receive an economic benefit to pay for the service in private because the service cannot be provided on the public network. In front of that, that data I've just reported, only 8,100 people have a square in a center of the day in our country. Of more than 65,000 people with legally recognized dependency, only 8,100 have a square in a day center, only 6,900 have a residence square and only 110 have personal assistance, who know it's a service very linked to people with disabilities. I mean, even though the State-owned law passed 16 years ago prioritizes access to services before any economic benefit, the data tells us that reality is going in the opposite direction. In fact, the latest reports of the Association of Management and Social Services Operations tell us that here, in Galicia, more and more economic benefits are being given in connection with services or care in the family environment, before access to day centres or elderly homes. In addition, most of the public money accompanying the dependency law goes directly to the private company for the absolute absence of the public administration, either because it refused to provide the service or because it fled directly to it. And we can put examples of how they privatized themselves to unsustainable levels of public residence squares in our country. Who cares? Who works in day centers? Who in the residences? Who in the home help service? And the most important question: under what conditions does he take care of us? They're basically women, and they're precarious women. [[Applause]] I'm going to put two examples - two! - that share today's situation and that are also situations that have already come before the curfew-19: the workers of the SAF are in the outdated agreement or, in other words, without renewing the collective agreement, since 2012, and the workers of the major private homes since 2019, and in the latter case, receiving some professional categories, wages below the minimum interprofessional wage. The situation in the case of the home help service is directly bleeding, not to say obscene. The employer decides to dissolve so he doesn't have to negotiate. There's an absolute disparity of working conditions, companies that don't pay the cost of shifting workers to different homes and a lack of material resources and enormous technical support, because, after all, the workplace is people's home, there's no day center, there's no residence... If there's no suitable bed, it's because there's no suitable bathroom in that house, it's because there's no suitable bed in that house, or if there's no crane to lift a person in the room or with reduced mobility, it's because there's no suitable bathroom in that house. And that goes on their backs, that goes on their backs, and it's worse than being beating in a mine, though the physical and psychological effort of these women is not recognized. [[Applause]] We are not today — for it is also not the way the intention of the initiative itself, for example — to talk about how much it is invested in the cost or funding of home aid hours. Today, what we're focusing on is the debate on planning, management and organization of the social services set of care and support for older dependents or people with disabilities. And we focus especially on the home help service because it's the main and majority, but also because here we fill our mouths over and over again to say that it's the key piece, the central element in the deployment of a care and care system to dependent people. But if it's central, it has to be worthy and it has to be with a different organization and planning. And here I say we don't think it's appropriate to manage a service of these characteristics to the municipalities; it's not a municipal competition. And we'll see why. It must be remembered that the allocation of hours of SAF to the municipalities is an autonomous competition, the time intensity that users receive from the evaluation of dependency teams is an autonomous competition, the valuations of dependency teams are autonomous competition, and the allocation of resources according to recognised needs and rights depends on the Board of Galicia, which is, in addition, the financing of most of the service. But then the management of staff, whether directly or privatised, control in the provision of the service itself or, for example, in the case of privatized services, whether or not they meet the bidding requirements, corresponds to community social services and municipal services. That in an important part of the territory of this country the smaller municipalities have a social worker and take miles! And with that you cover the home aid service and all the other social benefits and rights of the population of your territory. What does the initiative we are discussing today at the IGC? To create a public Greek system of attention to people; a unique network of an autonomous and public nature that integrates the various social services directed to care, care for older dependents and persons with disabilities. I mean, if we have a decent life when we get older or when we have a disability and we need support to eat, to dress, to wash ourselves, to take a shower, to get up from bed is a right, if that's a right, that is, there must be a strong public system that provides the necessary services to guarantee that right recognized by law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must build a real system of strong and public care that guarantees rights in a real and effective way, and in an integral and non-dispersible way. If the goal — and with this end — is to add life to the sans — and I repeat, add life to the sans — in lives that are increasingly longer, fortunately for all, what we need are systems of social organization of care, just as there are public and strong education systems and health systems. We are going to vote in favour and I also hope your lords will do so. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u100	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Group we agree that this is a complex debate, a necessary debate, and that we have to deepen on the matter, because the situation of social services and the model of care in Galicia is complex and we must deepen on the matter, of course, starting from rigour, because we have to get inside and see the X-ray to know where we came from and where we are going. We must not only debate the dichotomy of the public initiative versus private initiative — which, of course, also takes account of the excessive privatization that exists in Galicia — but also we have a duty to put emphasis on and to visualize the role it plays, for example, the social initiative itself, the third sector, because it seems that sometimes we can fall into the mistake of forgetting this part of the Puzle that is so important, and it is a key sector in the care model that we want for the next few years. From the Socialist Group, we have done so on many occasions in the need to regulate the situation of the third sector itself, since we cannot forget or overlook the great work they do from this area. But to talk about this issue, and more specifically if we talk about residential care centers, we have to do a chronological analysis; and the fact is that even before the pandemic, as Mrs. Rodil said, the German Government was strongly warned by the workers in the sector, by the families and by the Board of Auditors themselves that they were not doing well in the homes of older people. But they preferred to close their eyes and continue with the same modus operandi. After the pandemic, the gravity of what the Board of Auditors itself had predicted in 2017 as compared to the errors of the Government of Greece on its own management in senior residences was seen. But in addition, the Galician Supreme Prosecutor's Office itself has also issued a subsequent report on the need for greater investment in this area by the competent administration, which is the Galician Junta. The truth is that the German Government has the absolute majority -- that he often claims to me of that -- This means that much of the Greeks and the Greeks have placed their full trust for the Galician People's Party to manage, one of the country's oldest autonomous communities. And the German Government has decided to opt excessively for a privatized model. But, look! at the moment you decide to take this option, they also have the obligation and responsibility to compensate for this lack of supervision that the Administration no longer has on the centers through a properly equipped inspection, as we have repeatedly reiterated on many occasions. And what happened in Galicia was the opposite: as the number of private squares increased, the number of inspections decreased. It is such the imbalance in Galicia that we are the second autonomous community with less inspection technicians to supervise the homes of older people in Galicia. So what we have to discuss today is the model of attention we want, knowing what we have now in Galicia and clarifying where we want to go, from coherence with the policies we practice, and considering that we are talking about a very sensitive issue and always starting from realism and practice. The pandemic has seen the problems that there were, but it has also emphasized the work — as I said — of the third sector and the social initiative, for example. As happened, for example, in the centres of people with disabilities, who managed to draw out the impact and impact of the virus through the work of the staff and social-initiative associations, which only, for example, in the centres of Fademga had over a million and a half euros, and the Social Policy Council does not want them to assume despite having direct competences, despite receiving a lot of funds — as never — on the part of the state and, indeed, on the part of the advisor and also President Alberto Núñez, unduly appropriated these good results of the centres of disability to minimize and cover the impact that the pandemic had on the deaths and contagion of large households. [[Applause]] The truth is, the social care and services system in Galicia is on the spine. We started being the autonomous community with less average spending for each dependent person. We start from being from the autonomous communities that less coverage offers in their minimum income to people in situations of exclusion or poverty. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows the House a document.]] Here we have: only 4.6% of the Greeks who are at the threshold of poverty are at risk. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows the House a document.]] But pay attention! in the Basque Country, which is the leader, it covers almost 62%. It's totally decompensated. Make the risk of minimum vital income compatible at once!, we have warned you from the Socialist Party over a year and a half! They comply with their obligation and rescue people at the worst moment they're living. We are starting to be the second autonomous community that fewer inspectors throughout Spain have to monitor the proper functioning and that regulations are complied with in residential care centres. But we also started having a deficit of fourteen thousand squares, which are the ones that are missing to cover the number of people that are needed according to WHO's own recommendations; with the aggravating that the Greek Government does not even cover all the squares that are there. While these squares are empty, there is an endless waiting list that exceeds more than double what the law allows. But it's just that, in addition, we started a list of inescapable dependency waiting, which has sadly been reduced, in fact, because of the pandemic for several issues: first, because of the death of people in the pandemic; and, second, because we made phone ratings to assess the degree and disability of dependent people. And here I want to stop on this issue, because we denounce it by the Socialist Party on repeated occasions and with concrete examples. For example, a person with a deafness was rated on the phone. This is totally unbearable. How they want to accurately value a person with dependence or disability, by phone! In addition, we left a Government of the People's Party who voted against our request about the need for an investigation commission on what happened in the homes of older people. If they take so much pride in good management, why don't you know how it was done? If they did it right, we can serve as an example, and if they did it wrong or there were mistakes, we can learn from that. "Ombudsman for Social Policy of Ayuso signs a request for the investigation of deaths in residences." It says textually: "Help and I should go to an investigation committee to explain what happened in residences." Take note, I'm also from the People's Party. Why not investigate what happened? Why don't you know where there were mistakes that could prepare us for the future? We set out to be part of the 40 percent of the Spanish population living in autonomous communities with weak services — according to the last study published in 2021 by the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. Here we have Galicia, in the last jobs, we have disabled social services. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows the House a document.]] We started from a negationist government of problems like those that have older people with the bank, for which we brought from the Socialist Party more than a year ago, in April last year, a proposal to put solutions on the table. And the People's Party voted against. Why? In short, we start from a disadvantage that pays the most vulnerable, while we're now that more funds have been made by the state to Galicia, which means that we have greater coverage and increased spending capacity. From the Socialist Group we have made, using these resources, lots of contributions and proposals in a constructive way to rebuild our social services. But unfortunately they want to continue with the closed-eye policy and blame the rest of the administrations, when the powers are here and therefore the resources are in the Greek Government. We need to increase the number of public direct management squares, we need to increase inspection personnel, we need to increase the staff of the unit assessment teams and the disability assessment teams. It is necessary to incorporate trained staff into senior residences and, of course, it is necessary to change the model of care, but really, with actions and not selling smoke and marketing. They block the working conditions of the workers in the sector. Think about them, about the people who are taking care of our older, dependent people, people with disabilities. We have to shield the working conditions. And now the PP will say that everything is the blame of the Government of Spain but what it doesn't say is all the funds received in recent times. In recent years, after the pandemic, more than 37,000 Greeks and Greeks have received the minimum vital income. How many risk resolutions have you made, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in 2021? More than 200,000 Greeks and Greeks benefited from the extension of ERTE; more than 500 million in benefits for self-employed people; more than five million for the extraordinary allowance for these Greeks that exhausted their unemployment benefit; more than 4,000 non-profit-making Greeks were welcomed to extraordinary measures for this type of situation; more than 200 million for the first half of the year 2021 for self-employed people and companies most affected by the pandemic; more than two thousand for the food aid program for the most disadvantaged people; more than 60,000 people benefited from the thermal social bonus; more than 100 million for the concerted plan; more than three thousand for child poverty care; more than 700 thousand pensioners and books that re-evaluated their pensions thanks to the Government of Spain; more than 200 million in active employment policies; more than 10 million euros for the Modern Plan; more than three thousand for childcare; more than six thousand books for education; increased the demand for education; And I could go on but I don't have time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u102	...in addition to the dependent shock plan and many other games I don't have time to say. But what does Mr. Feijó do about it when you talk about figures and data that leave Galicia in the worst positions in the state? Well, I blame the municipalities, I blame the government and I blame the rest of them. And the evidence of that will be seen in the next intervention by the People's Party. When things go wrong after four absolute majority and the only answer the president of all the Greeks and Greeks is to blame others, I remember a very popular quote that says, "One person may be wrong many times but does not become a failure until he begins to blame others for his own mistakes."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u104	They invest in what really matters. Stop prepricing care services in the oldest autonomous community in the country, because we need an honest, serious, capable and hardworking government. They don't undermine the confidence of the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u105	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u106	Thank you very much, President. Let me begin by greeting the representatives of the IGC and also the president and the people who accompany her to representatives of the Association of Galician Day Centres, who have also come here today for a subject that I think they are interested in. Ladies and gentlemen, in its continuing obsession with going against the times, Greek nationalism today gives us an initiative that we deeply appreciate — by the way, an initiative that we are debating today thanks to a law of popular legislative initiative supported by the only votes of the People's Party of Galicia. On the eve of the entrance, the IGC presents an initiative that seems to be designed to initiate the BNG in this manner of moderation that seems to like Mrs. Pontón so much but which seems to disgust some of the Nationalist essences guards. And examples in recent times we have of that. They announced at his assembly that BNG was no longer an independent force, and, days later, Mr. Rego prophesied the arrival as soon as it was late for an independent German republic. They recently protested — including parliamentary performance — for attempts to caricaturize the BNG and for attempting to link them with radicals that were not democratic and even in full EH Bildu — European listmates — to manifest himself at the gates of the National Audience by winning Mikel Antza, who came to declare for the murder of Gregorio Ordóñez. In that same plenary Mrs Rodil made ostensible acts of disapproval when I said that the BNG wanted to nationalize the care sector and today we are debating the IGC's proposal to create a Greek public service system of attention to people integrated with a single public network that integrates them all. Well, man, not to be nationalized, it seems quite, frankly. By the way, if you'll excuse me, that's what I'm going to talk about, because that's what the initiative is about, that you didn't say a word here. The Royal Academy defines the disguise as "clothed or mask that is used to change appearance and avoid being recognized by the person who carries it." Today we are witnessing a new attempt to disguise good intentions, which is nothing more than the nationalist vocation of interventionism and libertizio of the old/new BNG—that is the same because, even though the BNG looks silky, BNG stays. And today we see a new sample of that disguise of lies, of fallacies, of gross manipulation. Look, it's a lie that the Greek public services are being dismantled. There's never been more and they've never been stronger. I told Mrs Ortega what the People's Party's response to their criticisms is. Day centers multiplied by four, Alzheimer's centers multiplied by two, community housing increased by 30%; residences 44% more squares; good governance multiplied by seven; houses of the largest inventions of this party; disability squares, 30% more. That's the response of the People's Party. They're fallacy because if you paint a sector that is caricatured in the form of "sedious moneyalanines," heartless people who seem willing to sacrifice human lives in exchange for benefits. It's not true. First of all, does the public sector not contribute to the stock market? Where do they think that the public debt seems to be financed, which seems to upset or like depending on who to apply it? The representatives of the centres of Galicia are here. Are these listed in the bag?, are the houses of the elder listed in the bag?, are the children's houses listed in the bag? Hey! Here are representatives of over a hundred private centers that manage small self-employed people and work for more than a thousand people. Do they not deserve a certain respect and be treated appropriately? I think so. [[Applause]] It's very manipulative to counter the "unquestionable efficiency" of the public sector against the "undisputable catastrophe" of private management. Well, neither is the first nor the second. There were efficient administrations and others that were less. There were excellent companies and others that didn't cut them. Did the day centers fail — which, by the way, you repeatedly asked them to open immediately because the functions they were developing were fundamental? Did the big guy's houses fail? Did the children's houses fail? Did the Home Care Service fail? Did most of the residences fail? I don't think so. And these are the sectors that you want to immediately incorporate into that public network, which you want to nationalize. Did you always hit the public system in this pandemic? Did you hit the epidemiological alert system? Did you agree with the decision to centralize the purchases of all of Spain in the Government? Because it's a little surprising that private companies that were unable to supply and facilitate PPE to their workers are constantly criticized, and at the same time applauded the management of the Government of Spain, which had the obligation assumed by the Government itself to facilitate these PPEs to companies. How can they criticize one and applaud what had to be done? It certainly seems to me surprising and I would ask, for God's sake, to respect the workers; but to respect the workers of the public and those of the private. I think they've all made an unprovoked effort and, by the way, not to kick stones but to take care of people, to save lives. The Royal Academy has a second meaning for "defense": "Artificial through which one presents a thing other than what it really is." And the truth is, it seems to me to be very close to it — I really say it, very close to it. You are surprised, IGC representatives, because when we talk about public services of a social nature, no Greek political force — no one, without exception — privatizes more than the BNG. I'm not angry with the leaders of the Socialist Party of Galicia, because it's the seconds around; but the ones that, the BNG. I read on the eve of this debate some statements by Mr. Carril in which he claimed that the union center has been denouncing for years the situation of residences of the third age, day centres, centres of attention to diversity and home support services, services that the PP government in Unity has been dismantling and privatizing to make them a new business. Is Junta privatizing municipal services? Because it is surprising — certainly not all municipalities privatize to the same extent —. In the home aid service, the percentage of privatization in the municipalities governed by the BNG is 46.6%; in the municipalities governed by the PSdEG, 45.5%; in municipalities governed by the People's Party of Galicia, 29.8%. No, of course, it doesn't matter! [[Murmurs.]] The mathematical data, when uninterested, is released with a... an argument, no doubt, of weight! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Home, they don't like private residences. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] For the IGC's colleagues, look, the board now has, of its title, an indirect management of 40% of the residences. Do you know how many are managed in a private way? One hundred percent. Of seven residences, seven are granted. In the last debate we held here, I told you, Mrs. Rodil, that, if you defend this, they immediately paralyze the bidding process of Meira's residence. Today Meira is already managed by a company, Tronchos Casares. We deserve all respect from the world, but, man, don't come here to ask the rest of us to manage directly on the same day that you are privatizing services against their own criteria and the criterion that defends Galicia's majority union — according to you. So, I'd ask for a little... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What is your model of public service, gentlemen, which is so funny to you? Or model Ribadeo? [[Murmurs.]] 8% of Ribadeo's residence has public employment, 8%!; 92% is private employment. Is that your model of public service? Question: Who approved that law?, who legislates concerts, indirect management, conventions?, who privatized 70% of the public residential squares that they created during the bipartisan government? See if it was the People's Party! It was you. 70% of the squares were privatized squares, in front of the current data from the Board, which I've already told them before it's 40%. But those who come to teach us the lesson are you to us. It's a surprising thing. Look, you will understand that we have to reject this initiative, because the Galician People's Party strongly believes in strengthening public services that care for the social sphere but also in the necessary participation of an entrepreneurial, dynamic and well-regulated private sector. That, yes, I don't want them to go with a bad taste of mouth and, from the deep respect for the work of the IGC — that I, as an organizational secretary of the People's Party of Galicia, so many times have enjoyed their company, the company of pickets, their songs and their poetic engineering—, I also want to collaborate by facilitating the name of some of the most privatising public administrations, because I give them a choice to be others who enjoy this treatment that the People's Party usually receives. The Vigo Town Hall privatized in social services everything that was privatisable, everything, everything that was privatisable! The Town Hall of Pontevedra, with the government of the BNG, exactly the same, the whole privatisable is privatized. In Ribadeo is the privatized SAF — government of the BNG. Hey, you can go to Carballo. Right now these days the home aid service is being re-aligned in the Town Hall of Carballo, in which the PP does not rule — for our misfortune, but not governs it, the Nationalist Galego Block governs it. In Walls, the point of care for children is privatized. At the bridges... Don't tell me... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u108	...tell the boss. I know it's harder to tell the truth to the boss, Mrs Ortega. But tell him that the children's school that has no obligation to privatize it, they can make a direct allowance as you do. So what I ask you to do is try, I'm convinced that in these municipalities the BNG and the PSOE will be as hospitable as the People's Party in Galicia every time you have the fortune to enjoy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u110	...from the IGC picket company. It will be a pleasure for them to receive them. I encourage them to actually defend their ideas and to see if they are silent at least among their own companions. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u111	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the initiative's own group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u112	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to greet the president of the Association of Day Centres, who did not see her before, and the person who accompanies her, if not, would have incorporated her in the initial greetings. And I would also like, both to them and to the people who accompany us to the IGC, to apologize and to apologize for the blow, really, of what you have to hear here. [[Applause]] I think there's something that I really like and that we could also recover as the pandemic evolved, and it's that people come here, come here to the gallery, and that they can see the debates live and live. Because sometimes, you go out there and you tell me what there is, that you try to bring here a peaceful debate, with data, rationality, about social rights, the rights of older people, people with disabilities, dependent people, and you just talk more about Arnaldo Otegi — as you just saw live and live — that of the population of this country. [[Protests.]] But since we sincerely believe in the BNG that they are intelligent, very intelligent, and capable of valuing what they see for themselves, I think there is nothing better than being a direct witness to the debates to bring any opinion and consideration to them. [[Applause]] Because I'm convinced that, any of the people who accompany us there in the guest gallery, any of the people in the parliamentary arch, or who might be listening to us now or later in their home, I'm sure they value Sergas and much, right? And I'm sure they thanked you, in the midst of a global pandemic, for directly attacking the public health of the entire planet, for having a public health system of quality, for the best, indeed, there is. And is that to "nationalize" or is that to "soviet" or is it the guarantee of a fundamental right as is public health? [[Applause]] I am absolutely convinced that your lordships, the people who are seeing us — which I also see from here is the Secretary General of the IGC-Essin — thank you very much for a public education system to guarantee a fundamental right, which is the right to education. [[Murmurs.]] What's on the table today for the debate? .) [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u114	What is brought in today at the initiative that brings the IGC by impulse, I want to remember, more than 16,000 people? It's been more than 16,000 people you've missed because it's a matter of asking your forgiveness, or permission to debate or make proposals in this House. — more than 16,000 people and more than 80,000 members of the Glaga Inter-union Confederation. [[Applause]] I would ask, indeed, a little respect, even if you did not agree with the opinions of others. [[Applause]] Because if I tell them what we get the rest of you every time you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u116	...bring the debate to their proposals and initiatives, with all the democratic legitimacy they have to do so... [[Murmurs.]] I'm convinced that any person that aspires to is that fundamental rights, social rights — as is the quality of life worthy when you're older, when you're a dependent person or when you have a disability — will come through a network of strong public social services. Today, people who represent private, concerted, medium- and public day centres here know that there are not enough places to meet today's demand and towards the future. In a population where a woman has a life expectancy of 86 years, do you know how many of these years are free from disability and dependence? It's 78. From 78 to 86 years old, how does a woman live in this country? With the need for support, assistance, with the need for professional care — or family members to be able to provide it or to receive it — in strong public services. What are we proposing, which is the debate that is open not only here in Galicia or in the Spanish state, but in Europe as a whole? Well, how we're going to articulate a system that actually balances all the agents and actors that operate. There is a part of social initiative, yes; and there is a part that is public and that is getting smaller — in the last sixteen years it has been getting closer and closer. And also how the market is going to be regulated, because there are things that are out of the way of the market. [[Applause]] When we need to provide public services to guarantee social rights and fundamental rights, the public initiative cannot be inhibited or set aside, because we have a responsibility, a joint social co-responsibility. What do you propose with a public system of care and attention to people? To guarantee this social co-responsibility of society as a whole, a co-responsibility which also balances the presence of the Administration, the State, the Galician Union and the public services in the guarantee of fundamental human rights. Today, what we have brought here is that through this public system, integrated by our own systems and not fragmented, as we now have multiple and very disparate services, we value, give visibility and recognize the value you have to take care of, which is to sustain life itself, to redistribute the responsibility of care to all of society as a whole; and above all professionalize and guarantee decent working conditions for those who support life, for those who support life!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u118	And I am — I insist — absolutely convinced that those who listen to us here, there or in their home are also for the defense — just like Sergas, like the public education system — of a network of care that guarantees us the rights to all, and more in populations where we have an ever-increasing life expectancy. But what we have to guarantee is that this life expectancy is done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u120	...in dignified conditions and freedom of disability and dependence. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mrs. López Sánchez asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? Mrs. López, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. López's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u122	I wanted to ask for the floor, President. I don't know if it's possible. On the basis of Article 76 of the Regulation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u123	The debate has been directed by me. I know what I have to ask him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What question do you want to comment on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u124	Now, under Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to ask Mrs. Rodil to remove an expression which, as a person with disabilities who are and in a position of dependence, is offensive to me, which is to say that, with regard to the home aid workers who help us — people with dependence or with disabilities — that work is worse than beating stones in a mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u125	Thank you. Well, you got it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! You understand the question. You made a request to Mrs. Rodil and we'll ask her, because it's an expression within a debate, and Mrs. Rodil will tell us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u126	I didn't say that. I said the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u127	Mr. Vega, please. You weren't in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u128	I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u129	Then, please, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u130	What I said is that the people who work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u131	Quiet, let's hear what he says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u132	...they do without cranes, without technical support and in precarious conditions. And we often think it's hard because it goes to their backs physically and psychologically; which is harder than hitting a mine. If that's offensive to you, I'll take it away without a doubt. But what I said was that it was as hard as poking in a mine, even though they didn't recognize each other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u133	Thanks, you got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u134	...those conditions often denigrate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u135	That question is sufficiently clear. I told you this this morning and I insist again. We all use metaphors, and we need to be careful about that. Perfect! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not going in on it. Here the honourable Member and the honourable Member are free, and I am also free to interpret it afterwards, which is the role of the Presidency. We continue. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other Members, on the demand to the Galician Union to develop a strategic action plan aimed at attracting part of the Next Generation funds for the reactivation and momentum of the Galician culture
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u136	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u137	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Complaints. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u138	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I'd like to start this speech today by asking them a question: what is Greek culture for you? Or, if I may still be allowed, another question: how do you imagine the culture of Galician culture in the next generation of Greeks and Greeks? I'm sure the answers will be all different and diverse, as different is the expression and the culture of Galicia, but I'm also sure they will agree with me if we say that the culture of Galicia represents a strategic sector for the social and economic development of our country. A sector, in addition, which enjoys great prestige. There is no more to remember — I think it is a very significant and relevant data — that Galicia is the autonomous community of the entire state with the highest number of national prizes in the different categories. It's something, of course, that we'll be very proud of. I am also sure that they agree with me if I say that this social and economic weight has a margin of great improvement and growth, as in order to be able to resemble those economies of other countries where creativity and talent play a prominent role. Now, we know that for this we need to have a proactive and determined government as a promoter, broadcaster, coordinator, catalyst, revolter and even an expansive irradiator of the Greek culture. And I'm going to say already: you need a government that lives culture from within, that feels the diversity of all the rich cultural expression skin with skin, that is an accomplice of its creators and its creators, that always wins and works through spaces of dialogue, that is and activates bridges of communication, that involves becoming the present and, above all, motivating the transformational progress towards the future. I mean, Greek culture needs a government that is a hand, a companion and loyal to agents and cultural sectors. [[Applause]] Greek culture also needs a government that abandons the hostility of indifference, routine, lack of imagination replaced by improvisation, prepotence of calculator strategies, cold, numerical, distant, technocrat attitudes or opportunistic poses that take culture simply as a tool in certain circumstances or occasions for press rounds or simply as a pretext for media and anecdotics. What a good thing it would be, now that we are plotting the future, a future that has to be necessarily different, that we dare to evaluate the path that has been going down here! How good it would be, that now that the 40th anniversary of the Statute of Self-Government is being celebrated, even from this House, from this Parliament, we could and dare honestly to contemplate the temporary retrovision which were the paths that the Galician culture has brought here! Of course, we know all studies and reports of what I would make up two conclusions by its generic nature: one, which says that Galician cultural policies lack strategy, diagnosis, planning and evaluation worthy of such a name, and one that says that the sharp decrease in budgets applied since 2009 — a date I understand that the People's Party Parliamentary Group sounds good as the beginning of this government time — clearly denied expectations and opportunities for growth for the Greek sectors and cultural agents. Of course, these are not conclusions of the BNG, but this is already determined in 2018 by the diagnosis of Galician culture, that macro-study signed by the Galician Council of Culture from which the Government of the People's Party has established that which called the Gallagian Culture Strategy, which, as a matter of charm, went by the air and came by the wind. [[Applause]] Obviously, the current circumstances since the year 2018 have changed dramatically and dramatically. The pandemic of the covid-19 has shown — we have often highlighted — the weaknesses of the system and the need to promote silence measures, structural measures to deal with it. Clearly, the Greek cultural sectors could not be alien to the consequences of the pandemic, nor should they be to the process of transformation that is coming. The different reports that were offered to us by the Galeg Culture Observatory - dependent on the Galician Culture Council since the second half of 2020 and during 2021 and of what will surely come to us in a few days - were given that X-ray of what was the impact of the pandemic on the Greek cultural sectors. And I would highlight two conclusions: one, that the crisis of coward-19 has impacted with a great impact since the zero minute on our cultural ecosystem, which already, as all reports warn, was in a situation of precariousness and previous vulnerability; and the second conclusion, that the professional structures of Greek culture have, as it could not be, their own idiosyncrasy, their own traits, especially characterized by being autonomous, micropemes and social cooperatives in their vast majority, and that during these two years they had to face a context of loss of resources, income, public and also fighting for their own survival. It's true that the latest data indicate a recovery of certain cultural sectors, but I would like to mention the severe difficulties that remain, for example, the performing arts, the arts of movement or the arts of music. The decisions we make from now on will map out those new paths that will pass through the next generations, the new generations; they will mark the model of society that is coming, the model that we also want the Greek culture to occupy in that society. All of this requires our utmost observation, attention, involvement and imagination in mobilizing all those economic, technical and human resources that we need, but also developing our working capacity for dialogue, debate and consensus. Transparency, dialogue, debate, consensus and agreement are at the root of the BNG's proposals to bring these extraordinary European funds that we need for the drive, transformation and reactivation of the Greek culture; ultimately, to move ahead firmly, because we clearly declare ourselves insubmissive of the verse of the great poet Díaz Castro: "one step back and another step forward, Galicia." From Greek culture to Greek culture, with the support of BNG, not a step back to Greek culture. In February 2021, a year ago, the BNG, as you well know, presented to the Greek society the proposal "Galiza Next. Generate a future; a country strategy that allows us to capture these European funds. Among the priority areas of this global project are — as could not always be less in the transversal projects of BNG — culture and heritage, with three lines of action: The first is the development needed by the reference of the audiovisual industry and, in particular, by video game. A point-making sector which, as I'm sure you know, generally shows a higher billing than the entire audiovisual industry in cinema and music together. Secondly, the second line is the staffing of the Galego Cultural Fund, already collected in the Statute of Autonomy and therefore still pending to develop forty years later, as a strategic tool for the promotion of Galician creativity, for the recovery, conservation and put into value of the Greek heritage and also for another task that we have pending, which is the internationalization of Greek culture. And the third line, which we qualify or call Plan Tradinet, which is the one that resides in knowledge, conservation, dissemination and digitization of the oral and intangible heritage of this vicious Greek. In the last debate of the nation's state, in October, we recall the delays in intervention by the President of the Union, where something was revealed was the total absence of a cultural approach to the mention of projects that would be destined for the next generation funds. He spoke here about chickens and more chickens and, if I may, rabbits, but at no time he mentioned articulated project around the Greek culture. It doesn't exist. On the other hand, although I must also recall that in the motions for resolutions following that debate by BNG there was a reference to the reactivation of the culture and of the Greek cultural sectors, where it was envisaged from the development of a sustainable reactivation plan in permanent dialogue and consensus among the cultural sectors, such as the expansion of 1% of the regular budget of the Union, or the commitment of 2% of the extraordinary funds Next Generation, as well as to drive, as I mentioned, the law of the Greek cultural background, which has been pending for 40 years now. That is why, a year after initially registering this non-law proposal without having received a written answer to our questions at this time nor known in this Parliament either a draft of government for the Greek culture linked to the next generation funds, we bring up an updated motion for a resolution — as it could not be less — with a self-amendment in agreement with the present time, with the wish that the House groups should join it in a positive way and — let me put it forward — also to the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party — in the hope that they will not be limited to repeating the press note of a meeting held last week. It would be a mistake that these funds would end up in a project that was agreed upon by others and not to count on small and medium-sized enterprises or on Greek cultural fabric, because it's not to count on the sector of Galician culture, to the workers and to the workers of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. Starting at the end of the intervention of the proposed group, we would certainly like to move that, while respecting parliamentary times and procedures, I did not make our position easy for us to register this self-amendment, which is so concrete and so complete that it changes and substantially changes the proposal, virtually exhausting what is absolutely lawful, I insist, the deadlines yesterday afternoon. I really want to deepen that we'd just like to have had some more time to reflect and also make our amendments because we agreed and basically agreed. We already had our stance on the need to debate this proposal and support that first point. But, as we have to pronounce on the full text they propose, we are going to do so — as we said — by points. With regard to the first, indeed, I would like to tell you that we share the need for the establishment of this permanent Bureau to agree and implement, that it is participatory, because the design and all the strategy in relation to cultural matters, counting on the agents, with all the cultural sectors in the field of European extraordinary funds. In fact, this parliamentary group has already proposed similar initiatives, not necessarily speaking of the extraordinary European funds, but speaking of the need for this permanent table, which has the sector to design in the medium term this strategy to great features of what is the culture of this country in the coming years. But the most curious thing about this proposal and this debate is that action-reaction, the effect that the Council of Culture already has on us, which, knowing that this proposal will be discussed by the opposition, which five days ago is to convene and baptize the Forum of Cultural Projects and European Funds, and summons the sector inviting them to that meeting a few hours earlier — almost one day in advance — when it is an absolutely improvised forum. And not improvised because the Socialist Party says so, but because the sector itself ensures that it has little room for manoeuvre and that we are faced with a lack of respect for that participatory model of work towards the culture of this country. In fact, not like a boycott, but a lot of agents didn't go to that forum. In that forum of last Wednesday, in that action-reaction effect, in that constant of the Council of Culture, what they do is go, with the table set, to report, among other things, on the one hand, that European funds and recovery funds are already running on cultural matters as well as on the 2021 and 2023 horizon for a total amount of 19 million euros and that the two most important are audiovisual Java, with 9.6 million euros, which is still that telepathy in which several lines of actions and help, many of them little or nothing known, of which nothing is known. For example, there is nothing known about that motion-throwing aid resolution — we don't know whether these two million starters will be exhausted — or about the desirable and demanding modification that the sector is asking for to be accessible, not only for large producers. And then there are the other EUR 9.5 million that are distributed in eight programs, which are already agreed with the Government within the Mechanism of Recovery and Resilience with the rest of autonomous communities. As we say, with the table on the desk, they call this forum shortly in advance. They also report that they presented and sent to the Central Government eight more cultural and linguistic projects by the Union. But here's to be amazed. I told him that there are already eight new projects that are transferred worth nearly two hundred million euros and, although they are already sent and done, now they say, tell us what they feel and pronounce themselves, after. This — as we say — is a collaborative work and we must count on the sector. And, as a colophon, in that forum they also announce -- now yes -- a calendar and some work tables, divided into eight groups, which will be two meetings and one at the end of April. Well, nothing to object: meetings, work and a table. What happens is that we're a little suspicious, and we ask: what are those tables and what are they going to consist of? Is it going to be to improve the projects that have already been presented, to formulate others or to simply make people of culture happy? We say this because it is curious that these work tables that are claimed, precisely in this initiative or in something similar to it - and we will remember all of them - that they have been produced and that there has been a job by the sector, by agents, by experts and by cultural experts, in the framework of the work done for the Strategic Plan of Galicia, and it seems that, unfortunately, this work has served — we hope that it is not, but it is what it seems and the feeling that many people are also hounding — so that the Government of the Union has lost time for the cultural agents of our country. We could have used that work in that strategy too to raise European extraordinary funds for our culture. That's right, since we have to share information, we've shared it all, also that of those first contacts with experts and experts, who did that analysis. In those initial challenges marked by the Galician Union, they said they were generalists and very short-sighted, and they warned, in addition, of the weaknesses of a Dafo analysis of the state of our culture, several things. First of all, on the lack of relations and coordination between administrations and many cultural actors and sectors, which is again being repeated with these funds. They also warned that cultural policies in Galicia lack medium-term planning and evaluation, which may result in inefficiencies in the measures taken, something which we do not tire of reporting in this parliamentary group. Thirdly, on the difficulties of the Administration to manage the processing related to cultural heritage; on the stagnation in the usual use of Greek; and — the crown jewel — on the sharp reduction in these years of government of the PP of public spending in culture in recent years. We ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, if it would not be better to take advantage of the transfer by these experts from this Bureau of Culture to draw up this strategic plan of Galicia, which would be useful for the design of programmes that will opt for the next generation funds. In any case — as we said and moved forward — we are absolutely in agreement and agree on the need — especially at this point — to create that permanent table. And, in order to finish, on the second point of the initiative — as we said — we had a more dubious a priori. The first concept, because if we really think that culture has to be absolutely priority in resurging this crisis and that it must therefore count on an important injection of funds, the truth is that we think it is difficult to compromise specific percentages of Next Generation funds for any destination, since that will depend on whether or not the programs presented are approved. So, talking about specific percentages gives us those doubts. And on the other hand, about the proposal for the destination of these funds, we went back to what I was saying at the beginning. Without having anything to object to what is proposed, we'd like to have had time, because it's such concrete things, so that we also come to some other priority destination of these funds, which contribute to strengthening our culture and preparing the industry for the coming times. By the way, it does not seem to us that the Galician Cultural Fund which contemplates our Statute is created with extraordinary funds from Europe. In our view, it is an obligation of this Government of the Council of Galicia which should look at it as a structural split in budgets. And we don't want to give the Government any more wings or, in this case, make more excuses not to do so, as their responsibility is. We end — as we do not — with the wish that this government of the Union should make its first of the challenges of this Welsh Strategy: to promote the social conception that culture is a social priority. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u142	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. How do we imagine the culture of Galicia in thirty years? I imagine the Galician culture in all the maps of the world; I imagine many people, many Greeks, living in the culture of Greek; but I also imagine the Galician Nationalist Block complaining more and more, saying that the Greek culture is fatal, that it is horrible, and with that black shadow that never, ever, ever abandons the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Mrs. Complaints, you amend yourself with a series of suggestions we can say dispersed, because you already said you registered the GNP a year ago, but you included a number of initiatives and requests that are a piece of the program of the Galician Nationalist Block, which is very lawful also to do so, but that, whatever happens, you would amend, in this way, without taking into account the reality. And the initial GNP called for a working table with different agents and cultural sectors, it seems to be to dialogue and present projects with reference to the next generation funds. And I asked myself, "Why do you want the Bureau to get everything done?" And if you have the solutions to all the alleged horrible problems of Greek culture, what do you want that table for? It speaks of transparency, debate, dialogue and agreement, but — as I say — they have already decided everything. They make a diagnosis that they've been doing for thirty years — which is wrong — and I think you also have some expectations for the future with the cultural policies of the People's Party that aren't true either, and time comes giving us reason. We are already again — as I say — in the face of the criticisms of the Galician Nationalist Block, which are rather sensations, are feelings, which, by the idiosyncrasy of the Block, which is the politics of the left of Galicia, always wanted to appropriate culture with that of "first culture and second culture". This self-amendment can also be due to the fact that the Board called the entire sector to the Cultural Project Forum and European Funds on February 2nd, at a meeting where new avenues of work and dialogue were established for the distribution of the Next Generation, because the Government of the Union and ourselves are interested in those forums, these tables, and we try to listen and then act. I'm going to do an incision here, because I want to remember today the figures and the success, for example -- it's an incisus, a parenthesis -- of the dual FP, when all the mass opposition was denied and voted against implanting the dual FP. We plant and put on the cements and then it's the consequences. The Greek Government listens and the Greek Government acts. In your explanatory statement, Mrs. Complaints, you are talking about the cessation or fall of activity, with the result that there has been a decline in demand, cash problems, difficulties in paying taxes and social insurance, problems with suppliers and distribution of funding, restrictions on leverage, legal insecurity, etc. All the consequences of the cod and all common to any sector. If we draw this paragraph from the context of this non-law proposal, we see that all sectors have suffered these consequences, and indeed culture, with a great deal of intensity, indeed. But you add it in a precarious previous context and I insist that this is not true. By making a quick review of Galician cultural action in recent years, we see that all the arguments used by the Galician Nationalist Block are directly invalidated. With regard to indirect support, the Galician Union understood from the beginning of the health crisis the need to urgently address the Greek culture, as well as other sectors, but also the Greek culture. Galicia was the first community to approve a specific reactivation plan for the Greek cultural sector; an open roadmap that focused on the drive of activity, but which was then alive and also changed. In the first place, he had an budget of twenty-six million euros, but at the beginning of 2021, and given the circumstances, the board expanded the document at a meeting with the main cultural institutions. In total, last year, the Culture Council, invested around EUR 40 million and two million to stimulate cultural activity and put in place a plural and decentralized cultural programming. As for direct support, it carried out three rescue plans for self-employed professionals and small business related to cultural activities. You insist that we don't take the peas into account, but you do consider the pees and the autonomous, of course, much more than the left-wing governments, who do nothing but stand up to the autonomous permanently from the Government of Spain. Igape's various support lines — fundamentals — were also launched to provide liquidity to companies at a time when everything was closed and stopped and they couldn't cope with the different payments. So those lines of help from Igape for the cultural sector were fundamental. Mrs. Complaints, you then speak, at one point of your self-amendment, of committing 2% of European funds to mobilize resources that strengthen Greek culture and heritage. And I ask, what's the reason for 2%, if it's the raw interior product? because I've already heard it from Mrs. Pontón on other occasions when she talks about culture in Galicia. The most recent data point out that Galician culture accounts for 3% of gross domestic product. So we bet on 3%. Unfortunately, the Galego Nationalist Block gentlemen, Galicia today has a cultural sector at its height, which in numbers represents — as I said — 3% of the German GDP, 1,740 million euros in 2019, and 3.6% of the employment in Galicia. And cultural employment figures not only improve those before the pandemic, but they place Galicia as one of the four autonomous communities in which the number of employees in this type of activity increases. You may laugh at everything you want, but these are the real data, which are also in the Gaga Culture Council Report, to which you have also appealed. They also ask for the development of the reference center or pole of the audiovisual industry and video game. We have already launched the audiovisual hub, which has planned important support routes for the video game sector. Maybe he doesn't like the name because he's in English -- as I've heard in the morning -- but it can also be called the audiovisual center, if the problem is the name. It is of utmost importance for this sector that internationalisation is a reference for all countries of the world; such an important sector, which can be shared and internationalized with such ease, as is the video game sector. In addition, we have an extraordinary and important talent in Galicia, which we must support at all times. At the moment, the Council of Culture, Education and University of Galicia is implementing several lines of action in cultural matters with European funds for the period 2021-2023 — it has referred to Mrs Otero — a total amount of EUR 19 million. As far as dialogue with the sector is concerned, when you talk about dialogue, you may have a different way of thinking about it, because the Galician Council of Culture Report also says that Galician Union is the administration of Galicia that best responds to culture; that is, the best cultural policy it has, compared to councils or deputies, where it governs the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. So you can take note because this data comes directly from people who receive or live with these cultural policies. Together is the best valued by the sector itself. The German Government has just called the meeting to continue that dialogue. Work dynamics have been made to develop the process of participation — not taxation, but participation, perhaps one of the pillars that make Together the administration that best relates to the cultural sector — to evaluate the needs of the sector and to add lines that were not in the projects designed by the Union; to consensualize a group of projects to present it to the Ministry of Culture — very important, too — and to do everything with eight working groups with the objective of designing strategic transformation projects of culture. The working groups are: audiovisual, performing arts, book, music, cultural institutions, visual arts, cultural heritage and language. Among other things, the Galician Culture Council, the Royal Galaga Academy, the Royal Galician Academy of Fine Arts, the universities, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, museum centers, foundations and representatives of audiovisual, stage, literary or plastic arts. I mean, a very broad representation of the entire cultural sector in Galicia. So, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, I think you're still out of reality. There are many things we can talk about and we can improve, and we can come to agreements, but they continue — I insist — with that black shadow that culture is tremendous and that the People's Party does not treat it as it deserves. And that's really a very late, archaic speech, because the figures and reality don't correspond to your speech. And nothing better than having the IGC public here so that today the Galician Nationalist Block would recognize that we have fantastic and wonderful public health and education; nothing like having a public and listening to the reality of the debates being held in this House, because today you have recognized that in Galicia Sergas and public education are exemplary. Nothing else on my side and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Complaines has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u144	Congratulations, Mr. President. Thank you very much for mentioning public education, Mrs. Egerique, which I know well, and I assure you that it works well thanks to the magnificent professionals who work in it, and to the educational communities who do their best to collaborate. [[Applause]] But it would be much better if we had all the resources we needed and if we had all the rights we had been robbed of. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] With regard to this non-legislative proposal that deals with us, where culture is the centrality of our interest, I want to thank the Socialist Group, of course, for the support. In fact, it came in time for the self-amendment, and we would also like us not to have to, but sometimes mark the Government's line of action from the opposition, because that's what you have. That's how we get a little bit caught up in time because we get a schedule. [[Applause]] What a thing! Mrs. Egerique, "Black shadow," of course, is a maxistral poem. But I also recommend that you read Rosaly's "Alborada", which is a song of light and energy to the freedom and the future of this country. [[Applause]] I'm sorry I had a wonderful time, where you've only devoted yourself to doing here a limited recompilation of past actions, but you haven't talked about the future, and here's what it's all about talking about the future. Next Generation, I believe, in my knowledge of English, which means next generation. We have to think about the next generation. And if you've spent so little time talking about that new project you're presenting, it'll be for some reason. It will be because there must not be much to tell or responsibility to take on here in Parliament. That's why they didn't even present it to Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Finally, I have to share with you my thoughts and feelings — if sir, indeed — which were my grandfather's words: "more straw for the straw." More straw for the straw! It used to be the Strategy of Greek Culture, then it was the Reactivation Plan, now it's the background... what else do the words say? The consultants can do anything to make wonderful presentations, but with more straw for the haystack, because there's nothing left. [[Applause]] It gives the impression — the press note and why it resumed here today — that what they presented again — or they intended to present, because I think they can no longer do so — to the cultural sectors and cultural agents is the same menu again, except that cooked with some new seasoning so that it seems like a different recipe and that there really is an ex-new job. Let's put here a little bit of participatory process, which remains well, another little digitization, a little bit of pop culture, another of 5.0 — which sounds very modern — an echo point, circular culture, a narrow end of cultural accelerators, and we close it with the patriotic crane to the touch of "green castors' trust". [[Applause]] Wonderful background! [[Applause]] But the truth is it's an absolutely closed menu and so delivered to the table, without the possibility of rectification and with more questions than answers. [[Applause]] A menu that's already in advance that's drafted and is delivered to the Government of Spain, that's what it commands, because the Government's theme I think it plays even further. It's a project — we call it so — clearly without direction, no strategic lines and no time frame for action. They lost two years -- that we've been in a month -- undergoing a terrible pandemic, and now they want the working groups to solve all this and do all the work that the People's Party Government hasn't done in two years. They mix ongoing projects, in principle completed — about some of them will already speak to us in Commission 4 on Friday, others without developing — which are simply wet paper there — but, yes, very nice, with a wonderful blue and nothing more. They mix institutions with collectives of culture. He wasn't able to mention a single collective of culture outside the institutions, and this gives me a lot to think about. By the way, professional groups of very different typologies that won't have access to those funds in equity, and you know it well, you know it! You'll see about the time until the deception comes. Finally, all this confusion and this improvisation game leads to a government that has no capacity to lead any cultural policy projects for the country. And this is still the case. [[Applause]] You put the markers on this bottom -- we call it bottom, as you say, even a project -- and then you ask people in culture to go to those landmarks and take the lead, and do the job to you -- as you have already done on previous occasions. [[Applause]] With the headlines of this background — with the headings and the labels — it seems that you brought out here the book of pending duties: heritage... We have just found out that thirty-eight BICs are within polygons of wind farms — this is the care of this country's heritage. Or the Sacred Ribeira, who tells them how that little thing happened to that Icomos report, which led to where he took his candidacy from the Sacred Ribeira. The museum -- I don't know if it's more or more, because of plurilingualism like that of the People's Party -- So now, at last, the Carlos Maside Museum of Sada is BIC once and for all and we end up with that desolation that they are subject to. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Library supplies... It's funny that they now aspire to the Next Generation to provide libraries, when, repeatedly — even in the 2022 budget — they withdraw funds to provide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u146	...public libraries. It's over, Mr. President. The Project We still appear, which lately, after the audiovisual hub, is what most has to sound to us. To see how they explain that 55% of them have applied to Greek -- you know from their linguistic policy -- or how they explain that joint disobedience to the Council of Europe, which they are repeatedly saying they have to lift the bans on Greek in teaching and that they continue to fail. Finally, I have to say they have forgotten a fundamental line on this bottom, and we are not surprised: traditional culture. He's not, he doesn't exist. The new generations Next Generation don't deserve traditional culture unless it's inside that you call "rural culture", which I don't know very well what it is. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u148	I'm done, yeah. They Marxize the basic culture—again—traditional culture, as they Marxise the Greek language, as motors of future builders of a cultured and millennial nation that is and with its own identity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u150	We're telling you — and I'm done, Mr. President, for real —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u151	Well, that's it. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u152	...that while you're on your way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u153	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u154	......a few seconds, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u155	Yes, but please, finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u156	While you're looking for Us, from that artificial intelligence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u157	I'll take note.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u158	...to make Siri speak in Greek—we don't know yet when—we defend and celebrate today's emotional intelligences, of what you like in this land...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u160	...all the rosemary, the waves, the knowledge and the aidas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u162	...they're not just between us anymore, they're staying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u163	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Complaints! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's only then that I'm protesting the second vice president! He's still protesting me later! [[Laughter]] That's it! It's funny this, because then I still get beatings. It's a barbaric thing! [[Laughter]] It's a little bit of a joke. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the electrointensive industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u164	Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have been amended, and a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u165	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we are presenting an initiative that emerges from the last meeting that since the People's Party in Galicia we have been with members of the Alu Iberian Business Committee, in particular, on January 24. A meeting in which workers expressed their deep concern about the situation of absolute uncertainty that they are at this moment and that they have been in this situation for almost three years. Now the company is in a competitive process that must be resolved by 10 May. A situation that calls for greater involvement of all public administrations and, in particular, the Government of Spain, in the search for an industrial future for this plant located in the Coruña, as well as a continuity solution for all jobs. And so, ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting this initiative that seeks to bring about a change of attitude in the Government of Spain; ultimately, that one step forward so that they are actively involved in the situation of the corrupt plant and, above all, to put an end to the main problem of their failure to yield and difficulty to find investors, which is nothing other than the lack of a competitive and stable energy framework for the hyper-electrointensive industry in our country. I am sure that the competitiveness of this company would be guaranteed with an electro-intensive status that enables it to compete in the manufacture of aluminium with the rest of the European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this situation as a result of the bad decisions of the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez. The Socialist Government was the promoter and those who valued the sale of Alcoa plants in the Coruña and Avilés to Parter Capital Group, despite the warnings that were made from the Unity of Galicia and also from the Government of the Principality of Asturias. A high-risk sale — as we all denounced — but that the Socialist Government was well placed in the electoral key, without thinking too much about the future viability of the plant; a viability that only two months after the sale had already shown itself to make water leaving more than half of the staff without effective workload, without actual workload. Shortly thereafter, Parting Capital Group gave no sign of life and its adventure on the primary aluminium plants of Avilés and the Coruña ended only eight months after its purchase. On 15 April 2020 Parter announced the acquisition of 74% of Alu Iberian capital by the venture industry group, confirming the suspicions of all — not all but the Government of Spain, who preferred not to see — that it was a proposal that gave no guarantee for the future of Alu Iberian. And that's how we get to the current situation: creditors' contest expiring on the next 10th of May. A situation of total uncertainty about the future. And that's why workers demand fair solutions that guarantee their jobs and the industrial viability of the plant, because we're sure they have it. A complex viability and profitability, because with the current price of industrial energy, which doubles the price of our neighbours in Europe, it is very difficult to avoid relocation and encourage investments in both Galicia and the whole of Spain in this type of industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we have a shared goal, and I'm sure that this goal is shared by all the parties represented in this chamber, which is to work on an industrial alternative that enables us to count in the future with a solid project for this crowning plant. That's why the German Government has just developed together with a technical team of plant workers a sales book made available to the contest administrator, defining a presentation letter demonstrating that a future for the installations and the Alu Iberian template in the Coruña is possible. And that's why since the Government of Galicia, she's been advocating to turn this Coruña factory into a green aluminium plant, secondary aluminium plant, where the circular economy grows. The important thing is that this study offers different industrial scenarios, all viable, and that would allow the medium and long term to recover the manufacture of primary aluminium in Galicia, which is the irrevocable objective, the objective that I am sure we all share. The important thing is that this study offers these different industrial scenarios, all viable and that could be presented by the contest administrator, the business committee and public administrations. The Junta, of course, is doing everything possible, and now we need the Government of Spain to do so too; especially because it was the Government of Spain -- you have to say, you have to remember -- who has put Alu Iberian in the situation in which he is now. It became clear until now that the Government was unable in three years to offer a stable and competitive electric price so that primary aluminium production could be maintained in the Coruña. That's the problem that has brought us to the complex situation we are in today. A problem caused by the Government of the State and which only the Government of the State can solve by taking the measures we call for in this initiative to establish such a necessary energy framework and making its own sales book that the Government of Greece has drawn up. The Union is doing its utmost to mediate this situation, but it is essential that the Government of Spain do the same. And not only the Ministry of Industry, but two other departments, but also the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Labour. A ministry cannot promise to fix what is undoing another ministry of the same government. As is the case at this time, in which they are no longer co-ordinating among the different partners of government, they contradict the same ministries that manage the same party, which is the Socialist Party. We need greater coordination within the Spanish Government itself, as well as coordination with the Galician Union, coordination with the company committee and the competition administrator, and coordination between the Spanish Government's ministries themselves. Today we present an initiative that seeks to take one more step in the search for solutions for workers in Alu Iberian and the future of the plant. One step further knowing that time is running and that there is on the table that May 10, where the company could be liquidated. And that is why we are presenting this initiative in which we propose to demand that the Government of Spain, first of all, use all the instruments it has to ensure a competitive price to the intensive industry, specifically the application of the maximum amount of compensation for indirect costs of CO2.; a replacement mechanism for the postage system that collects the figure of the hyper-electrointive consumer; which exempts 80% of the transport costs; the exemption from the electric generation tax, and immediately calls for renewable electricity pumps for their acquisition by the electro-intensive industry. Secondly, we ask the Government of Spain to actively engage with the Government of Greece and the workers of the plant in finding an industrial partner who guarantees the future of the plant and who also guarantees existing jobs. Thirdly, let the Vice President of Wales and the Minister of Labour mediate in this process to prevent ERTE from ending with the workers on the street and not prospering that ERE of extinction. Fourthly, that SEPI intervenes temporarily on the plant, and if necessary until there is a private investor who guarantees the viable industrial project and the continuity of the plant and jobs. Some proposals that we believe are clear, well-defined, consistent with the representation of the workers we have recently received. I believe that Galicia cannot give up manufacturing of aluminum, primary aluminium and secondary aluminium, that these jobs are necessary for the Greek economy to continue to function and that, therefore, it is the task of all to defend together the continuity of Alu Iberian. For my part. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u167	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u168	Thank you, President. Mr Tellado, let me begin by referring to what we discussed in the previous debate in the morning, in that continuing attempt that you have to interfere with the political debate. I have to tell you that some of us are very comfortable in political representation, whether in the first row, in the second row, or in the last row or in the pole. Those who are not political professionals and we have our profession waiting outside, in this case industry that you said you knew and didn't step in your life, and that we'll come back after being in this public representation post, we do it for public service. We understand that politics is the art of serving citizens and not of serving oneself. [[Applause]] Only three months ago, in the middle of this parliament, we unanimously approved an initiative that called on the Government of the State to activate urgent measures pending in favour of the intensive industry. In particular, they were the following: to increase the budget for subsidies for the mechanism of compensation for indirect greenhouse gas emissions costs to the maximum permitted content by the European Union; to activate the Spanish Reserve Fund for Guarantees of Electrointensive Entities, for the coverage of risks arising from medium- and long-term purchase operations of electricity supply, PPA, among consumers of electricity that have the status of electrointensives through the Cesce; to immediately convene renewable source power stations for the acquisition by electrointensive consumers; to establish demand management mechanisms to provide flexibility to the electrical system, which will in turn serve to reduce the final electric cost, and to conduct public intervention at the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao, initially in a transitional way through SEPI, to ensure the maintenance of employment and industrial activity and to facilitate its subsequent sale to a private investor that would guarantee a viable industrial project. That's what we approved. It is very curious that the People's Party today brings to this parliament an initiative prior to that which we approved, one of March 2021, to repeat a debate after the Alcoa staff in San Cibrao had approved the multinational proposal to continue in San Cibrao until 2026, with a paralysis of the activity of the electrolysis tanks on the aluminium plant for two years, but ensuring the maintenance of the jobs. It's hard to understand that the People's Party here in Galicia does not now put its efforts to promote renewable energy projects that are respectful of our territory and that they can lower the price of energy that this industry uses to shorten the so-called paralysis, and continue to be installed in a confrontational policy that the only one looking for is an electoral revenue at the cost of these jobs in the industry. In all this, from our group we wondered if you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, would like the continuity of the aluminum factory in the Navy to shine or prefer the closure that they so often prophesied. Are they working on finding solutions for the electro-intensive industry or are they just seeing it as a central government wear system in the face of the international energy price crisis? What are the measures you put on the table in Galicia to support the electro-intensive industry or against energy poverty? Is there any, gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applause]] Because I don't know anything at all. If you have industrial skills, what is the work that Junta was doing in Galicia to keep up with the activity at the Alu Iberian factory in the Coruña? Because until a few dates, very few, the Iberian Alu workers themselves were unaware of whether the Galician Union was looking for investors for the plant. Or are they going, as when Alcoa announced the closure of the corrupt plant, to cross by the arm to see what the Government of the State can do, to then join in when a factory sales agreement is reached to the new investor, and then be unmarked when it doesn't go well? That's your policy, gentlemen of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the difference between the policy of confrontation practiced by the Government of Feijóo and what the Principality of Asturias does. While you're only looking for noise, what you do here, the Principality of Asturias by way of a bill makes it possible that these days the Congress of Deputies will pass the procedure of a bill to declare the strategic character of the electrointensive industry. This strategic declaration implies that the industry can access administrative and fiscal benefits and mechanisms of priority access to the determination of energy prices of priority access and the determination of energy prices that are made in a new status. But this government in the state, gentlemen of the People's Party, has been working hard to find solutions to the high prices of energy derived from the international crisis because of the gas, after the erratic policies of the People's Party during the seven years of Mariano Rajoy, who has abandoned the wager for renewable energy and has lost the international leadership that the country had in this field. And do what you would have been supposed to follow on that betting path for decarbonization for the price of energy in these hard moments where gas dependence is a real thief. The Spanish Government works in two areas: looking for medium- and long-term solutions with the commitment for renewables, self-consumption and energy efficiency, and giving rapid solutions to consumers in this hard time of international crisis. In the field of electrointensives, on the one hand, it's working on a more technical aspect for that fund of public assets for medium- and long-term energy procurement. And on the other hand, in a job with electrical production companies, so that they favor the electro-intensive industries, which are their big customers, have contracts at competitive prices, with less benefit, but guaranteeing a necessary customer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they bring as a measure this initiative implement mechanisms to compensate for the costs of CO2 in companies such as Alcoa, Alu Iberica, Xeal, Ferroglobe or Megasa in the face of escalation in receipts. But the reality is that the ministry already devotes 470 million euros in budgets this year, the highest share of history in aid for this compensation, and about 180 million at least will go to the CO2 indirect emission cost compensation mechanism, which can be increased to that maximum allow you to claim. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, by the way, since you ask, Mr Puy, we must bear in mind that this compensation must be applied to the electro-intensives, but also to the social aid bonds, vulnerable consumers, and to the containment of the rise of the invoice of all citizens. And you're testifying to a question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Does the People's Party want or does it not want to cover citizens with energy poverty problems? In the talks given by the People's Party on this issue, the March 2021 initiative called for the establishment of a system of pauses in which the figure of the hyper-electrointensive consumer was collected, and you know well that this is not legal from the point of view of the competition systems established by the European Union. A situation that made Rajoy himself, before being evicted from the government by the condemnation of corruption that his party received, promised to create an electro-intensive consumer status that he never developed and that we had to wait until this government arrived to be able to develop it. But in addition to these posses, another exemption was proposed, which I now see amends disappears by magic art today, to replace the 85% compensation for renewable and cogeneration charges. It's probably gone, Mr. Tellado, because they know it's also completely illegal. In the other two proposals you will understand that we agree, both in the call for renewable power stations for the electro-intensive industry and exempt from the transport charges to these companies by 80%, because that's exactly what this evil socialist government is doing. I mean, the People's Party is putting forward five instruments, three of which are already in motion, and two of you know they're completely illegal. Great contribution from the People's Party to such a serious problem. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they should think of how to help the state government to reduce the cost of energy, or continue hand in hand with Vox by turning politics into a fake news show, even with supposed state government attacks on beet, which only come out in the dreams of a delusional married man, who feels Ayuso's breath in his back. [[Applause]] I would like you to explain why you, who so much say are concerned about the price of energy, voted against Royal Decree 17/2021, which includes tax measures and consumer aid, including the most vulnerable. They may have been wrong when they voted on that decree, as sometimes happens to members of the People's Party when they have to press the button. But the reality is that you voted against initiatives to reduce consumer taxes and reforms that want to cost you the excessive benefits of electricity companies, by a system that you yourself have implemented and that allows consumers to be covered by the costs of gas and CO2 by energy produced by technologies that have nothing to do with gas and CO2. And the citizenry asks: why do they vote against putting those undeserved benefits that receive electricity, against the citizenship that pays the bill at the end of the month? What is your priority, Mr. Tellado: the citizenship or the benefits of your friends from power companies? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, on this initiative, which has gone from talking about measures to reduce energy in the electro-intensive sector and has become an initiative to confront the Government of the State for the situation in Alu Iberian, we regret that they have not been aware of the situation of the factory for months, and even for years now,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u170	...because the industrial competences of the Galician Union include seeking investors for the crown plant. But don't worry, the Greek socialists support and we will support, as it was said when Alcoa wanted to scare,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u172	...to keep activity and employment on the corrugated plant with all the measures necessary for that. So if you accept the vote by point, we will of course vote in favour of the measures I propose for Alu Iberian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u173	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u174	Good afternoon. When Alu Iberian talks, we must remember that we are facing an industrial crisis caused by Alcoa's intention to close the aluminium factory in the Coruña. It must be remembered that the German Government and the Spanish Government acted as mediators and guarantors of the agreements that took place during that process and that both governments were blessed by those agreements. We must also remember, because this is what the factory workers and workers demand, that during this process they were practically overwhelmed with promises of support and solutions by both governments, and that today, after more than two years of non-compliance with those agreements and with the most basic and fundamental labour rights, after more than two years of true psychological torture by the factory staff and their families, they are absolutely abandoned and abandoned. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But we're going with the PP self-amendment proposals because there are several things to highlight. The first, that the current regulatory framework of the electric market is of its own authority; yes, of the Government of Mr. Rajoy and the Minister of Soria. It is the honour of you to introduce into the electricity market the mechanisms that have caused instability, the mechanisms that have made it impossible to guarantee the right and long-term prices of electricity supply and that have also caused discrimination between companies in the same sector of activity by volume of consumption. And today, after the defeat was committed, they blame the prices of light for the Government of Spain, which is indeed guilty, to the extent that it maintains the basics of the regulation of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And that you're not in the task of modifying the current regulatory framework of the electricity market in a significant way, you clearly get rid of your proposals. For you it is a priority that the great energies keep the current level of benefits falling down; a level of benefits to all unabated and illegitimate lights. That's at the heart of the problem, the abuse of a dominant position in a discarnated way that has industry, autonomy and autonomy, small and medium-sized enterprises and families against the ropes. You agree in some things with BNG in the need to eliminate certain taxes, in the need to clean up the electric bill of charges and fees, or in raising the maximum allowable CO2 compensations. But when you talk about changing the pricing system, then you don't. Tributes, charges and subsidies, yes, because that doesn't go to the electric pocket, that goes to everyone's account and all the contributors. But alter the pricing system, no, because that's the golden egg chicken, that's the machine of what's known as "heap benefits from the sky." And that's exactly why we have to act. The BNG proposal is very clear in this regard: we must walk towards a system that shrinks electricity from the production costs recognised, at least for certain technologies such as hydraulic or nuclear, in the same way that is done in other states of the European Union. The second question is your proposal for the Minister of Labour to intervene to prevent ERTE from ending in layoffs. A proposal which appears to be intended to bring to the German Parliament the purpose of adopting the non-reform of work last week. Because the current ERTE was negotiated and approved at the competitive headquarters in the Court of Commerce No. 2 of the Coruña. And in these circumstances, the intervention of the labour authority is always much more limited than ordinary, but in any case it is the competence of the Union, not of the ministry. I mean, you're the competent labour authority in this case, not the minister. But I say that it is a depurpose above all because the limitation of the powers of the labour authority to intervene in a business crisis exists because of the work and grace of the labour reform adopted on its day by the People's Party, and recently endorsed by the Government of PSOE-Unidas We can with the disgraceful support of the PP. It was the People's Party that reduced the ability of governments almost to zero to prevent an ERE when they eliminated the business obligation to obtain administrative authorization. [[Applause]] So between PP, PSOE and UN We can elaborate or referenda the normative framework of light, and are therefore responsible for this. And the same with regard to the work policy framework. They are therefore responsible for the fact that nowadays the future of the Coruña aluminium factory is in the hands of the contestant administrator and the Coruña Mercantile Court, while the governments look to the other side, they blame each other, but unfortunately none of them does anything. And the proposal that the PP brings today is the best mirror of its fiction policy: it's all to be ordered to do without assuming any responsibility. BNG is in favor of Sepi's intervention in the factory, of course. But what will the Government do if Sepi doesn't intervene? Because you guys today have no solution for the Alu Iberian factory, and we're going at the time of discount. They don't have an industrial plan, they don't have partners that guarantee activity or employment, and what's worse: they don't have the slightest intention of doing anything to rescue the factory. A sales book is the same as nothing. If the German Government disagrees with the production of aluminium in a country where there is a successful and expanding market and industry of aluminium, with companies such as Exlabesa, Extrusion or Cortizo, it is particularly serious and outrageous. But the pretext is the price of electricity in a country like ours that has installed more than four thousand megawatts of hydropower is already the top. More than four thousand megawatts, more than the thermals of the Bridges and Meirama together. Yes, in the BNG we have a concern about this being a public energy company, and in particular from hydraulic uses. We have it and for several reasons: because within renewable technologies it is the most management possibilities it offers; because production costs are among the lowest; above all, because the rivers, that is, the resource is unequivocally public, and we have the right to exploit it as best suited to us; and because today the main problem of the consumer industry, according to its own manifestations, is the price of electricity and the refusal of large energy companies to offer competitive prices in the long term. [[Applause]] The question that remains to be answered accordingly will be whether a public energy company could offer those competitive prices that industry demands. And the answer is roundly yes. There are examples in other European Union states. In conclusion, since the BNG we have wagered for the rescue of the Coruña factory, with public intervention if necessary from Sepi or Junta, of both governments in collaboration, in the same way as other states of the European Union, in particular Italy, have rescued on their day aluminium factories that Alcoa wanted to close. In any case, we demand from the Government of Feijóo an action that corresponds to the strategic importance of the industrial activity that aluminium production has in our country, and that it corresponds to the need to protect the jobs of the more than 300 people who have come to work at the Alu Iberian factory in the Coruña. And we're also betting because the German Government is taking decisive steps towards the establishment of a public energy company. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u176	Thank you, President. Lord Fernández, in sin is penance. The truth is that it is difficult to be a spokesman for the Galego Nationalist Block Industry in this chamber and have to do these works of balance in order to keep on the difficult line that she compels you to Mrs Ana Pontón: Please, don't bother me with those of the PSOE, who then get angry and throw us away from the governments. How hard! [[Applause]] You support the most centralist government in our country's history. What's Chichinabo's nationalism? Mr. Fernández, the Galician Union and the Principality of Asturias we opposed the sale of Alu Iberian to Part Capital Group, and we said publicly. It was an operation that blessed him, pushed the Socialist Government because he was interested at that time in getting that problem off the table, because we were in a pre-election context. So don't ask us for responsibilities what their partners have done, where they can, because they rule with them, they're their partners. You're BNG's co-operative, and they're for that, to defend the cooperative, they're cooperatives. But the truth is, to defend Galicia you are neither expected nor expected, because sectarianism prevents them from recognizing reality. It was the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez who left the electrointensive industry of this country at stake. Because earlier when Mariano Rajoy ruled this problem there was none, and when it was solved. So we're asking the Socialist Government, which has ruled for more than three years, to put solutions where there's now a problem. Because if France can, Italy can and Germany can, why can't Spain? Why that price difference from the megawatt? Is that global energy crisis you're talking about only affects Spain? Isn't it global? And if it's global, why do they solve it in France, Germany or Italy, and not here? Because here's a government that doesn't have no competence, it's incompetent. And you support him and take him to Moncloa's palace. In good time, Mr. Fernández! And in good time to that Galician Nationalist Block office cooperative! Mr. Seco, I ask you to see your intervention as soon as you can and will discover why you have converted the PSdEG-PSOE into the third political force, into the minority party of this camera. Because you couldn't pronounce the word "workers." We're talking about 300 families in the Coruña who live in Alu Iberian and are worried. And we present this self-amended initiative to defend their interests and for the Government of Spain to become involved. And you came here to defend the Government of Spain and the little party. That's why you're the third political force in this parliament, because for you Galicia is the last. When they have to choose, Galicia is always the last. You've been repeatedly tricked by the Alcoa workers and the Alu Iberian workers by promising an electrointensive status that would fix everything and ultimately didn't fix anything. Is it more: the money of that status, finally where did they go?, were they to the hyper-electrointensive consumers? No, it was companies that actually have a high energy consumption but other communities, curious!, such as Basque Country and Catalonia. But you're the one dedicated to the PSdEG-PSOE? Stop being ridiculous! Have a little respect for yourself. What we said was going to happen. We said that when the government pushed this operation, it was a high-risk operation that didn't guarantee business or jobs. And unfortunately, what we said was going to happen. While you were doing it, it was fooling everyone. Look: their environmental Talibanism leads them to understand that the decarbonisation of the economy is the most important. And the most important thing for us is Galicia's industrial employment. You don't care about a chicken. And that's why your new secretary-general — who I think doesn't represent you — has allowed the Government of Spain to dismantle the economic engine of its municipality, shutting its mouth, looking elsewhere, because that's why I'm from the Socialist Party. The first, the party, the first, Sánchez and the last, jobs. You're the ones led by your environmental Taliban, and they end up saying that people's employment is worthless, that the important thing is the headline and the propaganda. And in that you must recognize that you are the best. When we thought no one could betray Galician interests more than the previous PSOE, Mr. Valentín González Formoso's PSOE arrived preaching candles. And who's next to him? Mrs. Ana Pontón, the voice of this BNG Cargo Cooperative, who says, "Well, don't touch me." And that's why BNG laughs. And why? They've got more advisors in the Lugo Deputy than you do in the whole province.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u178	That's the Galego Nationalist Block, a Cargo Cooperative. [[Applause]] First, ours, and Galician is missing. [[Applause]] If that's the excuse, that's what Otegui taught us... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u180	... all this time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u182	Finally, we present an initiative to defend the continuing Alu Iberian in the Coruña and the 300 jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u184	I expect the support of the parties that make up this camera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u186	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u187	I understand you didn't accept the amendments, did you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u188	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u189	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union for local corporations to benefit from the Programme of First Professional Experience
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u190	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u191	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u192	Thank you, President. Let's talk about work, Mr. Tellado. Your disrespect for my partner just means that Martín Seco has a possibility of argument that you don't have. You didn't even reach the height of your shoe, of course, in the arguments cast because they didn't have them, they didn't have arguments. [[Applause]] But we are going to the initiative, which deals with the importance of the People's Party and you, Mr Tellado, to employment and to local administrations. It turns out that there is blatant and unfair discrimination on the part of the Government of Greece in the area of employment and active policies by eliminating municipalities from an investor program. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group urges us to correct this action. Within the framework of the National Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, in particular in component 23, the section "New public policies for a dynamic, resilient and inclusive labour market", in order to address through social dialogue a balanced and coherent package of reforms that will reduce structural unemployment and youth unemployment, designing public policies that will enable the advancement of a dynamic, resilient and inclusive labour market, and prepared for new global demands and opportunities, such as digital transition and ecological. One of the objectives is to reform and promote active employment policies by improving the cohesion of the national employment system, with a focus on people and businesses, guiding them towards evaluable results consistent with innovation, sustainability and productive transformations supported by improving capacities. Given the unequal sectoral impact of the pandemic and its negative impact on Thursdays, it is urgent and fundamental to put in place measures directed at this collective, placing as a cross-cutting and priority element of these actions the fight against youth unemployment; one of the main problems of the labour market that has been aggravated after two of the greatest economic crises of the last century. The structurally high unemployment rates of the population's youngest layers affect precariousness and may have permanent negative effects on wages, training and the potential for future promotion. This case has already been put by this parliamentary group at the beginning of this non-legislative proposal, in which we put together the level of unemployment on Thursdays in Galicia by 20.6% at that time — reaching at 2021 by 24.7% — as well as temporality, which is 61.5%, and bias by 25.5%, which suffer — caused as a result of the previous one — which earns much less wages than the average of the age group. And the consequence of this wage gap is a greater difficulty for emancipation, since of factors such as life-enhancing, the tightening of the conditions of delivery of mortgage credits, the increase in housing prices we get as a result that a young person should use almost thirty percent of what he earns in dealing with real estate expenses. The data, according to sources of the Tax Agency, of the Labour Market Survey and Pensions — the last published in 2020, because we all know that the 2021 declaration still does not present it — show that workers under 25 years of age receive an average salary of EUR 7.052, compared to the 17,141 who perceives the age group; which means a difference of EUR 10,089 and gives rise to a wage gap of 58.9%. In view of this data, we cannot qualify the situation of the labour market for youth in Galicia as precarious, unstable and without rights. And that's why we urged Junta to put in place a youth employment shock plan that designed measures that would contribute to the establishment of a quality employment framework, combating the despondent effect of young people and girls, increasing their job qualifications and facilitating their work integration. You know the result of the vote: you won the People's Party, you lost the Welsh Thursdays. Following the argumentary, the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience does put in place a plan of shock against youth unemployment to facilitate their work integration, to build stable working lives and immediately increase the training and training of young people to boost their recruitment as soon as economic growth increases. A comprehensive plan and short-term transformer. In this component 23, investment 1, specifically "Jove Employment", includes the performance of the First Professional Experience Program in public administrations. This action aims to develop a plan of first professional experiences for young people in the midst of services provided by public administrations. The difficulty of acquiring a significant first job experience affects young people, making it difficult for them to quickly integrate them into the labour market and their professional growth and hence staff. That lack of professional experience related to training is one of the barriers that young people have to get to a qualified job. This leaves them at a disadvantage with respect to other older people and promotes disqualification dynamics by overqualification between the skills they have and those that require the positions they finally enter. A program directed to Thursday in unemployment over 16 and under 30 years of age, with a complete and accredited formative stage as far as knowledge is concerned, which aims to facilitate this first contract of work through first-experience programs, preferably in tasks such as the green economy, digitization of services, social cohesion, attention to dependence, intervention with vulnerable groups and rehabilitation of borders and housing, also rural local development. With these preambles, and funded from the resources of the European Recovery Instrument, the Next Generation, through the mechanism of recovery and resilience, on December 30, 2021 published the Official Journal of Galicia to the Order of December 29, 2021, of the Employment Council, so that these foundations were established for the granting of public grants for the financing of this recruitment programme for Thursday, for a period of twelve months with full-time newspapers. Article 3 of that order establishing the Employment Council refers exclusively to the administrative bodies of the Galician Union and its autonomous bodies as well as to the other entities which form part of the autonomous public sector of Galicia. On the other hand, we have to bear in mind that the Ministry of Labour, in an order dated 24 October, published that these public subsidies were intended for the management of autonomous communities and said: "The entities that determine them will benefit, within the bodies of the administration of the autonomous community and its dependent public bodies, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And he said, "...as well as local corporations or dependent entities or linked to a local territorial administration." Thus, this Socialist Parliamentary Group cannot understand and denounces it in this parliament, as well as requesting that the local corporations of Galicia, as well as their dependent entities, be included as beneficiaries of this programme. We do not understand this discrimination, except that the cause is the continuing discrimination suffered by the Italian Government, particularly those not governed by the Galician People's Party. [[Applause]] This discrimination is contrary to the provisions of the state order which covers the summons. And the concept of discrimination is not paradoxically included in the financing of pilot programmes — said President Feijóo — for EUR 9 million. You also leave Article 4 of the Employment Act, which provides that employment policies in your design and management model must take into account your local dimension. What is worse: they don't mind leaving job creation without a chance in a more permanent way, since it is — and we all know — the local area where recruitment in practice can be done as a starting point for new employment deposits. Initial recruitment for a year can be done as a starting point for a new employment project, both individual and collective entrepreneurship projects. This discrimination is not new, for the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia had condemned the Union for discriminating municipalities that had not joined its "Entrepreneurship Councils" initiative on July 23rd. In fact, the High Court of Justice said and focused on the total disagreement that exists between the promotion measures aimed at promoting the recruitment and training of the unemployed who tend to deploy and set up companies in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u194	Yes, president. We ask: What are the reasons for these exclusions? What corrective measures are to be applied with regard to this discrimination towards the councils of Galicia and their dependent entities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u196	And we urge you to correct these dysfunctions if you are so concerned with precariousness and employment, Mr Tellado. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tabares has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u198	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first is to confess to them a fear, and it is that when the same paragraph appears "People's Party" and "management of European funds", one cannot help remembering that mayor of Ourense. [[Applause]] Of course, as Garcia Berlanga, he said "Austrian Hungarian" in every intervention, I have to say "Ourense." And not the rest of it, but it has to be here where we remember this mayor of Ourense who asked for European funds for the construction of a ship, a ship that had already been built several years ago, and something that was contained in a public writing given before the notary. So — and then the first gravity — the National Court forced that council to return all these European funds received. And the second gravity is that in the face of this situation Mr. Núñez Feijóo the first decision he had was to appoint him high office of the Galician Union. That is, they understand our concern when we see in the same paragraph "European fund management" and "People's Party."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u199	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u200	National Hearing, Administrative Dispute Section!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u201	Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u202	Any discrepancy or necessity of law class,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u203	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u204	...after Mrs. Rodil's lesson one, we'll be willing to enrich her little knowledge. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Well, the PSOE initiative asks to include... [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what they'd eat today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u205	Well, it seems there are several who ate strong today. Quiet. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u206	In the initiative, the PSOE calls for including local corporations as potential beneficiaries of the First Work Experience Program. Possibility envisaged in the order of the State, as Mrs Rodríguez spoke, which established the basic criteria essential to the calls for these programmes. So the Galician Union does what it does is not to include, but to expressly exclude local entities from the possibilities of benefiting from this First Professional Experience Programme. But it is not the only important exclusion that the Galician Union carries out, because again, as usual practice, it does not agree to apply, even if possible, a competitive competition procedure for the selection of aspirants. Here we must remember that the state's basic order allows the establishment of a competitive competition process for the selection of aspirants. The programme of first professional experience aims to sum up a number of objectives: a subjective one, the training and acquisition of skills and professional experience of children under 30 years of age, and another objective one, the promotion of the green economy, digitisation, social cohesion and territorial cohesion. These are the purposes of this European programme. They are none other. It is not allowed to cover structural squares, it does not allow the possibility of hiring cheap labour; that is, to take advantage again of youth, young people in this country. The high rates of youth unemployment pose a danger to the generational balance, a risk of socio-work exclusion from the most vulnerable groups. So the global challenges of sustainability and competitiveness call for a strengthening of active employment policies that lead to the fulfilment of Agenda 2030's target 8, i.e. sustained economic growth, inclusive and sustainable, full productive employment and decent work for all. Of course, the high rates of youth unemployment cause this risk of generational and territorial imbalance. And the latest data published about the Spanish State tells us that it has one of the highest rates in the European Union of youth unemployment; the only one that has an unemployment rate of more than 30%. It duplicates the European average, five times Germany. It's the second highest in the entire OECD territory, member states and also signatory states, only surpassed by Costa Rica. More worrisome though the state is the situation of the Greek case, which is five points above youth unemployment in the state average. If youth unemployment is high in the state, in Galicia even more. The dramatic percentage, perhaps most dramatic, is that we have taken into account the brutal decline in the population of Galicia between 16 and 29 years since he presides over the Council of Galicia, not that of which he governs, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Galicia, against what he says, according to INE and IGE, increased from 493,076 inhabitants in 2009 to 344,239 in 2021 in that age group. I mean, today there's 43% less young population in Galicia than when Nuñez Feijóo began to preside, ruin this country. Reality that compromises the present, but clearly conditions our future. As we said, in addition to this programme of experience, the acquisition of professional experience, this programme aims to enhance the ecological transition and the green economy, aims at digitizing services, social cohesion and rural local development. And precisely in rural areas is where depopulation strikes with greater intensity. Interestingly, youth unemployment, no, because there are no young people in unemployment anymore. The young men overcome the challenges of having to look for a job in other states or in other parts of the Spanish State. And that's why we don't understand the exclusion of the Galician Union from local entities from the grant regulatory bases. As we do not understand that the Galician Union does not make use of the possibilities of selecting the eligible entities through a competitive competition procedure. Again, whenever we're talking about grants, whenever we're talking about agreements, there's no possibility of a competitive competition procedure. Possibility that gives the foundations of the State, it is possible that it allows these public resources, because we are talking about public resources, being destined in an effective and efficient way, reducing the possibilities of arbitrariness and nepotism. Interestingly, where arbitrariness, discretion and nepotism are higher, there are higher rates of depopulation as well as higher rates of unemployment. The speeding up of procedures, the simplification of procedures does not imply the abolition of administrative procedures. The administrative procedure is precisely configured to ensure correctness and opportunity in the management of public resources. Here, as in the other approaches that take place since Galician Union, all guarantees of legality, all guarantees of impartiality, all guarantees of neutrality are being abolished. This programme must ultimately serve to increase the professional attitudes of youth, but it must also contribute to territorial rebalancing and social rebalancing. You can't be ruling a country for only 20% of the territory. It is not enough to make statements of meaningless intentions or policies supporting it on territorial rebalancing, on support for the rural environment. It cannot be done if we are in rural areas abolishing health services, if we are suppressing children's schools, if we are removing educational centres and if we are depriving ourselves of communication and telecommunications measures. To bet on rural is to bet on a development and a territorial rebalancing that this European Union programme allows and enables, that the foundations unfortunately imposed by the Spanish State also allow and allow. And it is precisely Galician Union who bets on nepotism, arbitraryness and again excludes local entities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pardo López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I start, I'd like to make an incision. Mr. Tabares, that mayor you're talking about was acquitted. Not like that mayor of Melide's BNG who couldn't rehabilitate her by inventing projects from a debugger and a polygon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u209	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u210	Getting into the issue, as you know, one of the main problems facing my generation is access to the labour market for the first time. A difficult access because it's especially complicated for any young man to complement his academic or professional training with the acquisition of experience in the world of work. So, once the formative stage is finished, we find ourselves young and young, with a very difficult barrier to overcome, which puts us in a disadvantaged position. A barrier that is no other than experience. As you know, youth takes intrinsic inexperience, and often job offers do not pick up inexperience as an opportunity to grow, but as a challenge. And maybe this is one of the motivations that can explain the high rate of youth unemployment we have in Spain. And that is the difficulty, that of acquiring this first professional experience, which conditions early access from youth to the labour market. Which causes a very common situation in our day-to-day, which is nothing other than the overqualification of new workers with respect to the job they are performing. The recovery and consolidation of quality employment are a commitment for the Galician Union. That's why more and more actions are aimed at giving work opportunities to younger people. For example, with the Youth Employment Plan, which in 2022 will have an budget of 52 million euros. A plan that has different incentives for vocational training and practice, which means a boost to the recruitment and employment of young people in Greece. Within this plan is the first work experience programme in public administrations, with a total of more than 11 million euros of budgeting. A programme aimed at promoting the recruitment of young persons for the acquisition of professional experience in entities in the autonomous public sector of Galicia. A programme that will offer nearly 300 contracts in practice and which will reach the five hundred twenty. In addition, we must not forget the transversal nature of youth in other programmes of active employment policies in the Galician Union. As young people, a priority group has preferential access to various programmes such as the Self-Employment Incentives Programme, General Remutation Bonuses, New Opportunities Bonuses or youth-based rural entrepreneurship programmes. It is also improving the scope of training for employment, which is key to the inclusion in the labour market of young people in Greece, such as the flexibility of digital training. With regard to the Socialist Party's initiative, we understand that in the budgets of 2021 the State provided local entities with a budget of EUR 22 million to develop the first professional experience programme of public administration, something that has disappeared. And already in the budgets of 2022 he made a call but to benefit solely the organs of the General Administration of the State, worth 100 million euros. Money has therefore been allocated to implement active employment policies, which, as you know, is an exclusive competition for autonomous communities. I understand being of the Socialist Party of Galicia is not easy. So, they come here to demand from the Galician Council what they can't claim from the Central Government. Because for the Socialist Party of Galicia, first of all, it's giving Sánchez a plea. Defender Galicia? Well, not at all. But, of course, listening also to someone from the Socialist Party come here talking about measures on youth employment is that it sounds like a joke. Last week unemployment figures in the EU member countries came out. Spain held the last position in employability, with a unemployment rate of 31%. We're at 10 points more than Portugal, 14 points more than France, and we were doubling the European Union average. Of course, now I understand when the Socialist Party was saying, "We're not going to leave anyone behind." Obviously, you can't leave anyone behind when we're the last ones. But by coming back to Galicia, that initiative is a clear example of the state of mind of Valentine's and Carmela's PSdeG, isn't it? [[Applause]] Well, I can talk about Carmela, I know that on that bench is a taboo theme. [[Murmurs.]] But with all my respect, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. We all know that the Galician Socialist Party has the best experts to talk about jobs in the municipalities. That's why to me this initiative presented today by the Socialist Party of Galicia seems to me insufficient, I urge you this week instead of bringing an initiative on employability in the municipalities because you set up a round table between Carmela Silva, her sister-in-law and the socialist UGT official. Because I am convinced that the Galician youth would learn much more about what the Galician Socialist Party thinks about employability in local administrations than with this initiative. Because, of course, Fraga here has made the Labor plan and you can put in place the brother-in-law plan. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Luckily, the Galician youth have a government that really works for us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u211	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u212	...and it's none other than the Government of Galician Union. And that's not what I'm saying, that's the data. I can start with the most recent ones, because last January we had the lowest figure of unemployed young people in the whole historical series. We have a juvenile unemployment rate of four points below the average in Spain, and we've had the biggest drop in unemployment recorded among children under 30 years of age, 31% fall over a year ago. While affiliations have also risen by 7% this year. A fact that speaks of Galicia today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u213	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u214	...is that we have 65% less youth unemployment than the Bipartisan Government, the Government of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego has left us. Galicia is demonstrating that despite the cover-19 the measures put in place in conjunction with political stability allow for better behaviour than the rest of the state where youth employment is concerned. We know there's a lot of work to do in the future, so we also know that the Union is focusing on youth through these active employment policies. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, today that we are talking about the first job experience here, I think we should congratulate a Member of this House... see how they know. [[Murmurs.]] Sure, I'm talking about Mrs. Pontón. Last night... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u215	Quiet. Mr. Tabares, they ate more than one today. Well, let's see if we're all listening to everyone who's in the use of the word, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u216	Even yesterday Mrs. Pontón was eighteen years old since her first job experience, the first and only moment. Of course, because you've walked through the corridors of the Faculty of Policy to step through the corridors of this parliament; and then, still, you think you can speak on behalf of the youth of Galicia. Of course, I know that age is the numbers that appear in the DNI, but the reality is that it cannot represent the Galician youth, for it has always been very far from the street. It's normal, after eighteen years because she'll be more used to stepping on her carpet. [[Murmurs.]] Because you'll be asking yourself, what did Mrs. Ana Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u217	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u218	...in the course of these eighteen years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u219	Quiet. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, they go several times. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u220	...as a Member for Galician youth? Well, we can talk about your first four years as a Member, recently out of college. I voted in favour of raising the university rates by 20% during the two-party government. I voted in favour of employment policies that made Galicia suffer from the highest youth unemployment in its history. I voted in favour of a two-party government that made our school dropout rate 25 percent, one out of four students, and today it's 8 percent. In short, I was defending a BNG government that didn't provide help for the mobility of young people, that didn't facilitate the generational remittance or the recruitment of youth. A Bipartite who gave less help for the purchase or rent of homes by the youth. And yet you must think that because it's young that we don't have memory, and think about it, because you never had to face what you have to face in the day to day a young man or a young man from Greece. You think you can fool us by saying that all solutions to our problems are independence or sovereignty, because the only thing that worries Mrs Pontón about youth is her vows. BNG wants a gray youth and ash like them, but the Galician youth is much better than the BNG. By the way, a young gale who whenever he had to decide sent them there, to the opposition. I, who I am going to finish, take advantage of to bring a gift to Mrs. Pontón for these eighteen years, because she's been on this camera for 18 years, almost two decades, and she's been talking about youth. Of course, he goes on to say that he comes here to renew the Welsh politics. That's why it's not comforting who doesn't want to. I encourage her to follow 18 more years in the opposition... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u222	No, no, no, Mr. Pardo, please. That takes you to your chair and I'm sure tomorrow you can deliver it to whoever you think is appropriate. But don't leave him anywhere. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u223	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u224	Mr. Tabares, I really think there's some comment left. Yes, they are. [[Murmurs.]] Sobran. [[Murmurs.]] No, it's just you take all the mouse, and it's funny because when you step in here you say there's a lot of Members who ate hard, but when others do you don't see each other. We'll be up here and we'll see him. [[Murmurs.]] So, please, I'm asking you for respect. I ask of you and Mr. Torrado as well. [[Murmurs.]] So, please, respect. About everyone! [[Murmurs.]] Everyone, everywhere, you don't have any doubt. What's going on is that there's someone who's pretty effective in his protests and gets noticed, and he likes to be noticed. That's why they're the first to be demonstrated, okay? [[Murmurs.]] So, please, let's have the discussion as it deserves. Rodríguez Dacosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u225	Thank you, President. Unbelievable I come to give the reply, because the fact is that the honourable Member and spokesperson in this matter of the respectful People's Party was not. I am not able to give advice, but if you want to follow a member who is on this bench, I would follow Mr. Tellado more than Mr. Puy. But, well, you do as you consider. And look, when I talk about Mr. Feijóo, I say Mr. Feijóo, President of Galician Union. I don't know if you have coffee every day with Valentine and Carmel. No, no, no, no. Valentín is Valentín Formoso, president of the PSdeG of Galicia, and Carmela is Carmela Silva, president of the Deputy of Pontevedra. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And it's all to tell you, too, that I leave you the survey of active population, more than anything because the data you gave had nothing to do with this survey that reflects what's happening to youth in Galicia, with 20% more in this quarter of the year of precariousness. Yes, then whenever you can, Mr. President. [[Mr Rodríguez Dacosta gives the President of Parliament a document.]] Of course, the data are that between January and March 2021 Galicia lost 12,600 citizens between 25 and 34 years of age, some integrated into the labour market and others looking for employment — that is the data. Another example, because 36,768 Greeks and Greeks were installed in Madrid; the region, according to INE data, that picks up the number of those who are bottled up there, not those who are not bottled up. That's the data, the more I left them there. The serious discrimination made by President Feijóo, not Alberto, President Feijóo, is very serious because he removes from the beneficiaries of this investment programme a pen and without altering himself to an entire administration, that of greater proximity to the citizen, the local administration. They come by doing it systematically and financially strangle the municipalities that are not governed by you. What they're doing is forcing them to assume the powers of the Board without any financial allocation. What they do is sign ad hoc agreements for municipalities presided over by mayors of their party. My companion Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo has already taught this graph of the distribution of total Galician conventions, which is equally not of interest to them, which points out that 81% of the conventions are intended for the Galician People's Party. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta shows the House a graph.]] For example, the mayor of the Coruña, who, when the Union received 1,500 million euros to deal with the effects of the pandemic, did not allocate a single euro to this municipality in Junta de Galicia. On the other hand, Mr Feijóo, who is not Alberto, dares to criticise the Government of the State with a breakdown which tends to be discretionary in the distribution of European funds from 555 million euros for investment 4. Nor does it mention Mr Feijóo or you who are criticizing that 9 million euros are being invested in pilot programmes in some communities — in four communities — and not running the previous year at the Employment Council 135 million euros, not running: 135 million euros! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] To analyze the data, I think you should think about it. Because the data from the last survey -- I said -- was a macho to the employment policy of the Union, placing our community in line for job creation, not even back to the pre-covid level. Unemployment rises by 20% — as I said at the beginning of my intervention — on Thursdays, which is what we are dealing with today. First of all, it must be made very clear that once again the People's Party does the same with employment funds, that is to say, transfer the funds from final government transfers to employee recruitment programmes to Chapter 1 or Chapter 4, as it did with grumbling or risk benefits. A second problem is the possibility of using this programme of acquisition of experience to cover existing structural vacancies. The order already says it can't be done. But because we don't trust ourselves much of what can happen when we hire the Galician board, because we already see that it won't approve our initiative, and the municipalities won't be allowed to contract, the works council should decide that there isn't a similar structure post without covering and giving its visa to these contracts. It's a shame the Employment Council, that the Galician Council hadn't done this enlargement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u227	...—it's over—to the municipalities, because if you read one day a few of the Delors White Paper would explain how to create employment deposits connected with the local administration. And this is an ejacist who won't be able to cure her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u229	...because they don't want to approve this initiative. Nothing else, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u230	The amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u231	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u232	Okay. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to increase the budget of the program to promote innovation in small and medium-sized industries
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u233	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u234	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. If anything shows this crisis of coward-19 is the importance of betting on research and innovation. Research and innovation have the capacity to respond to the great challenges and problems of the world in which we live. Galicia must firmly bet on science and innovation as a strategic value and lose both well-being and growth. The European Commission's latest regional innovation report for the year 2021 found that Galicia had two years taken up the 190th position, now it is the 156th position in a total of 240 regions. However, even though it improves in some of the indicators analyzed, it lacks a key, because R & D spending in the public and private sectors not only gets worse than 2019, but it's still far from the European average. Galicia is located in the group of moderate but low-level innovation regions. Compared to the rest of Spain, he occupies the eighth position in the ranking, far behind the regions classified in the category of forts, such as the Basque Country or Madrid. So it seems clear that we have room for improvement to place Galicia as a reference. The European Commission evaluated twenty-one indicators to assess the degree of innovation in the regions, a key factor determining the degree of strength of their economies. The European Commission published the report this summer, updating its regional innovation indicator. Since any indicator takes into account several factors to conclude with a single number, it is neither perfect nor indisputable, but it is the best existing for the set of European regions, since it is transparent, it is objective and generally has academic support. For this reason, the Galician Union should carefully examine its conclusions to find out where our autonomous community is, in which areas it is improving and in which it is weak, as well as how dynamic it is going on. This would enable us to redirect actions and priorities. We should not forget that this indicator is used in reports produced by consultants of all kinds, especially regarding the attractiveness of regions for receiving foreign investments. The Galician community has already set off in 2019 from a bad situation in investment in research and development, and two years later its score worsened. Public R & D expenditure is now 64% of the European Union average, while business disbursement is only 32%, leading Galicia to 68, behind a total of 200 European regions. And this is also one of the main differences with northern Portugal. In private investment in R & D, Portuguese nearly doubled the score given by the European Commission to Galicia, and they also exceed us in public spending and research. As for the barriers that are more related to business, the Portuguese are back in the head. According to the European Commission's analysis, northern Portugal has twice as much notice that Galicia in product innovation and business processes. Also noteworthy is the gap in trademark applications, where Portuguese neighbours take great advantage of the Greek community. In fact, Galicia is making your score worse on this indicator. The other great weakness of our autonomous community, despite slightly improving with respect to 2019, is in the design applications. The difference with northern Portugal is abismal, since it triples the score obtained by Galicia; the community is 47% of the European average. And then we wondered why companies are leaving for Portugal. It's because Portugal takes us to the front in everything that has to do with R+D+I; they're investing, which is what we have to do. That's why Portuguese in these R & D+I themes are moving as far as we're behind, as always. These data I have just given are objective data showing that Galicia has a lot left to improve in R+D+I. The Galician Union must strengthen the policies of transfer and knowledge and business innovation, with special attention to pemes. The existence of three universities and six technology centres seems to be a good starting point for Galician companies to benefit from their research results through technology transfer agreements and collaborative projects. Even though in recent years these public-private relationships have been favored, the truth is, we are still far from achieving levels that place us as referents. Only a very small part of the knowledge generated in universities and technology centers is becoming part of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a weakness we have in our community and Mr. Feijóo's government has to solve it. The Autonomic Executive has to bet on a model that prioritizes R+D+I, and more at this point where the economy will depend on innovation and research. [[Applause]] Last July 1st, Mr. Feijóo's government announced that it would put in place a programme to boost innovation in pears with a budget of twelve million to benefit fifteen thousand pem in our community. Please — if I see you're a little bored — divide twelve million between fifteen thousand pemmes... thank you, you see, you listen to me, like this. [[Murmurs.]] Please, twelve million in fifteen thousand... please, to see how much he gives, I had to do it several times because I couldn't believe it. Twelve million to benefit fifteen thousand companies, for the truth has come to light. [[Murmurs.]] I said, this can't be, come on, I'm not doing it right. Yeah, he gives eight hundred euros. [[Murmurs.]] That's right! To me it really looks like a coat of hair. It's a coat of hair! Yes, they laugh, they laugh, they laugh, because it's a coat of hair. The parliamentary group calls for a serious and rigorous investment in innovation by the Galician Union. The investment in innovation of the Greek companies has reached seven hundred twenty-two million euros by 2020, and in 2019 the share has exceeded the seven hundred sixty-million euros. The difference is in the number of companies that innovate, two years ago it was 1,556 and by 2020 innovative companies were 1,296; we're going back, we're going back. Yes, this is the great R & D+I policy of the People's Party Government, we're going back. Today, small and medium-sized enterprises must walk from the hand of innovation to be able to compete, and the duty of the autonomous administration is to help make this goal a reality. Innovation spending is increasingly concentrated on large businesses in Galicia. 43% of R+D+I comes from forty-two companies with over 200 employees. Mr Feijóo's Government needs a boost to the innovation of peas. That's why our Socialist Group calls on the autonomous government to increase the program's budget to boost innovation in the pemes of our community, and calls for it to strengthen public policies for the transfer of knowledge and business innovation, with special attention to pemes, counting on the three Greek universities and the six technology centres to benefit from the results of their research through technology transfer agreements and collaborative projects. We are bringing this non-law proposal today because it is not enough for us to make the budget that Mr Feijóo's Government devotes to the innovation of pemes. For example, do you think the InnovaPeme program — which released its fourth edition in April 2021 — could boost the innovation of pemes with two million euros? I don't think so. Socialists believe it is essential that the self-government make a greater effort to be at the forefront of innovation, so as to have a modern economy at the height of Europe. In order to achieve this, Mr Feijóo's government needs to invest more in innovation, and specifically in pemes innovation. Without innovation and without science there is no future, I hope that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party will understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u236	...because if we don't, we won't have anything to do. The future is in science, and the future is in innovation. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u237	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u238	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all again. I was going to ask him what the cake was about, because maybe we were encouraging ourselves here, among all the people we are, to give him a little bit, which would give him a little bit, as well as the ones we are. But he's not. In any case, we also have, down in the group, two cabinet mates who are on their birthday -- if they really do -- and there are canes of cream, and all of their lordships are invited to try them, which are very rich. [[Murmurs.]] But by going to the question and focusing on the issue, indeed, we, from BNG, believe and strongly defend that research, development, innovation, science..., the generation of knowledge, ultimately, is panic and motor of social, economic, cultural and human development. It is also a productive sector in itself, one of the most important economic sectors and one of the central elements in the present and especially in the social and economic future of our country. So when we say it must be a strategic bet, we basically talk about three elements that must support public policies on R & D+I. I can't resist it either, Mrs Gallego, because we were talking about working conditions for people who do science and research, now that the Science Law is being reformed at the state level, that it would not be too much to meet the demands of researchers and researchers from Greece, who yesterday mobilized, in addition, in this country to claim stability, certainty and fair working conditions. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But we're talking about three central elements. The first is the budget, indeed. Today, in our country, in Galicia, we are below 1% of the gross domestic product; that's the tail of the Spanish state, but far from the European average and the horizons that mark the European Union as soon as possible. Secondly, fair working conditions, decent working conditions, certainty, stability and clear professional horizons. There is no research career in our country with all its phases, all its stages. Basically, in our country we still lack a stage of consolidation of our own. And despite the announcements and propaganda — which is going to be left behind by the People's Party in Galicia — that all stages of a research career will be created and designed, for the moment it has not advanced at all in the design of that entire career. What are the working conditions of people doing science, research and innovation in our country? Yesterday or earlier — I don't remember well — in one of the major media, of the main newspapers of the Italian press, Manuel Collado, who is head of the group of the parent cell research group in cancer and aging of the IDIS, at the University of Santiago, reported that, with 52 years of age, he lives on the extensions that are made to his temporary contracts every two years — they are state calls and are updated, I insist, annually. "In May," said Manuel Collado, "I'm finished and I don't know if they'll renew me or not. I'm told I'm calm, I'll have a place, but I live in uncertainty." If this is the case with the group leader of one of the major research groups on aging and cancer in our country, how will people who have just deposited a doctoral thesis or those who end this year, for example, the B modality of a postdoctoral union? We need clarity, certainty and stability, because, when we talk about generating knowledge and investigating, that certainty, that tranquility, at least, in your professional future, is essential to develop your work. And what can't be what happens so often in this country: that it lasts less the labor contract of the researcher or researcher than the European funds, for example, those you try to fund this research project and you can't compete in fairness or justice with fellow researchers at European level. We're talking about a very competitive market, where, in addition, excellence is an ever-increasing demand. In the field of research, development and innovation, we talk about budgeting, fair and dignified working conditions, but also about transferring knowledge to productive tissue. We always insist from BNG: Applied science is fundamental; but we can never forget that without basic science, without that which has no immediate performance, an immediate application or immediate profit, we could not generate applications, for example, linked to traditional productive sectors or emerging sectors in our country. Although we still do not count on the final assessment report of the RIS3 — even if it is making quite propaganda of the news, of 2021-2027, but we do not yet know the final evaluation of the RIS3, we have only the intermediate report — I will use the data of the Galician Board itself to assess the need — we will support the proposal that the Socialist Party brings today — to promote more and better public policies in the field of innovation and transfer of knowledge to the Welsh productive fabric. I'm going to defend the private company, in an unexpected turn of events too, because we're against that, which is a bug!, as everybody knows, right? The mid-term evaluation reports of the RIS3 tell us that this innovation policy of the Galician Union -- I insist, are data from the Galician Union itself -- "draw structural evidences that are plundering our country's progress in a strategic economic sector as is the generation of knowledge." And I literally quote the RIS3 evaluation report. The first is those investment levels below 1% of GDP. It's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's It's ridiculous! It's trying to run a half marathon or a bottom with the leg tied! It's just that you can't compete with countries around us, like Euskadi or Catalonia, which are almost 2%, or with European countries and research groups at Community level that are over 2.5%, or some that are, like Germany, very close to 3%. That's in one country -- I insist -- like ours, which has 0.97% of GDP in research, development and innovation. Secondly, it says the evaluation of the RIS3 of the Board: "...fall in the number of patent applications and the number of innovative companies, which were reduced by 69% and 15%, respectively, in the period assessed from 2014 to 2018." And linked to that, it points out — to Together, eh! — that, linked to the previous and despite the increase in investment in R & D+i by companies, which increased by 30% in the mid-term evaluation period of RIS3 - the strategy of smart specialization, to understand us - the results show that there is a group of companies with clear innovative focus, the largest ones, those already having a technological base, an innovative base, that they are born, let's say, in origin; but what is not producing a systematic incorporation of that innovation, that R & D in business practices than is the bulk of the business and productive fabric of our country, which are micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. I mean, you're not incorporating R+D into the traditional business fabric, and that's a piece of work in the competitiveness of our own companies in Greece, but also a loss of opportunities and a loss of talent for the country as a whole. Still, it doesn't go so bad, it's funny, but it should lead us to a reflection, which is: if, doing the wrong or so bad things, we're able to have some performances in innovation and in research, science and knowledge generation, how much this country could do by putting in place the public policies that are necessary! We believe from the BNG that opportunities and potential are immense and that what is missing is a public policy that accompanies. I insist. We climb positions, certainly, even we grow at a higher rate than the average, but, of course, what is the starting point for other territories within the Spanish State or, as Mrs Gallego said, for an element that is central to us? Because, of course, we have a greater closeness and a greater relationship with Portugal than with Murcia -- that's a reality; it likes more or less -- and we have to be very aware that our country, for example, has a far greater potential than other territories that are not much ahead of the positions and rankings of research, development and innovation, such as Asturias, Cantabria or Murcia. With all love and affection for these territories, they represent realities very different from Welsh, which has three public universities, eight campuses and six technological centers, and that we are international power in traditional sectors of the country itself and in other popups. I'm thinking about agribusiness, fishing, forestry, but also the video game sector or biotechnology, which are leading economic sectors for our country. That is why we are going to vote in favour, we are going to support this budgetary increase and that public policies are being developed aimed at that small and medium-sized enterprises being able to join this R & D+i, because what we are told by the evaluation reports — I insist — of the Board itself, both the RIS3 and the Cotec Foundation, is that the investment levels have not been recovered here and have not even been fixed, contrary to what has happened in the Spanish state as a whole; that we follow very behind what we need this little and medium-sized Italian production fabric, which is entrepreneurship; and that still with these difficulties and the lack of public and investment policies by the Union continue to be connected and they continue to acquire knowledge, that they produce — oh, chance! — public centers, universities, OPIs..., let us say, public research centres and also technology centres. That's why we don't have to demonize the private? I agree, but I don't land every day on the public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. One of the priorities and main lessons learned by the pandemic is how close technology and R+D+i to social and economic progress. Not only have they made us able to solve many of the questions of this health crisis, but they have also created many obstacles; obstacles to which, thanks to strategic investment, Galicia has been able to give a better solution to the pandemic both in health care and in economic terms. Innovation is an essential tool for the competitiveness of the Galician business fabric, because it determines its ability to differentiate, move forward to changes and bring value to the market, impacting on the development of sustainable business models and with higher performance. Every time more companies in Galicia enter this reality, it serves as an example that the latest survey on enterprise innovation, published by the National Institute of Statistics, reflects that the companies in Greece invested 760 million euros in innovative activities. Mrs. Gallego and Mrs. Rodil, focus the shots on two weak arguments, and the data I'm going to give them -- real data -- clearly dismantle their unfounded criticisms. You're talking about low R & D spending. They look -- they're current data, data from the year 2020, because the data from the year 2021 are not yet -- research and development expenditure has increased in Galicia by 2.3% in 2020, i.e. one point more than the average state, which was 1.3%. We're the seventh most developed community. We recognize that much remains to be done, of course, but in front of eight communities in the Spanish territory that have reduced spending on R & D. With a firm step, the increase in R & D expenditure has been consolidated with continued growth since 2014, corresponding to the highest level of the entire historical series. Little fun, little ride, ladies, it's like a quality road and, little by little, amount. But let's do a more thorough analysis and what you didn't enter. We'll see why they didn't really do that analysis in terms of per capita. Internal R & D expenditure amounts to EUR 232.6 per inhabitant in Galicia. It goes up slightly, if we compare it to the year 2019, while in the state as a whole it has descended, from 330 euros from the year 2019 to 328.6 in the year 2020. Let's move on to the staff employed in R & D. You didn't talk about it, you didn't talk about the staff. The figure reaches 10,774 people, while in the state there is an increase of 0.1%. We're also talking about the percentage of researchers. Let's continue to compare with the data of the year 2020. In Galicia it increased by 2.9%, the triple that the state average of the number of researchers, which reaches the figure of 6,920 researchers. Women employed in R & D represent 41% in 2019, above the national average, which is 40.7%. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, your work, the work of the opposition, of course, but when the data reflects everything else, we find that these are only false accusations. Look, before the end of 2021, just two months ago, this Parliamentary House witnessed the approval of the budget for this year 2022, in time and form, where the request for 20% more to boost innovation was collected. And do you know what the vote of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists was? On the contrary. Mrs. Gallego, you don't understand. You ask at your point, in the non-law proposition, to extend the budget play. And when you have the opportunity to vote in favour, you vote against it. Tell me, explain it to me and detail it, and above all explain it to the sector. This is a real coat of hair. And I'm not going to respond to your divisions, because I don't think you understand anything at all. The second finger accused and to respond to the second point of his initiative, Mrs. Gallego: there are reports and data provided by the INE that indicate that innovation in Galicia has grown at almost twice the rate of the state average, at 48 percent, and 34% more than the region of Portugal you referred to. This same report points to the strengths of innovation in Galicia, precisely, collaboration between companies, the sale of innovations, the educational level of the population, higher studies, digital skills or international scientific publications, while indicators to which more attention is still needed, and we recognize it, are business spending in R & D and even the introduction of innovative processes within pemes. Recognizing that ejaculation, of course, Mrs. Gallego, the German Government acts. And that's why the programme of boosting innovation in pemes, with 12 million euros. But he's not the only one, Mrs. Gallego. It's not just about 12 million euros. I'm explaining that the budget game for R+D+i covers a lot more. Analyze all tips where you bet on R+D+i. We value our own and we stop... because we also have many examples in Galicia that the sector has shown a great capacity for response, working to find solutions in a complex career and against the clock in the form of vaccines, such as those investigated by Ciqus or Csimus, at the University of Santiago de Compostela -- that if you are working with universities, Mrs. Gallego -- They are centers where 11 ERCs work out of the 25 we currently have in Galicia, supported also by the Opportunius Program of the technology centers, and diagnostic tests developed by companies, as the company looks at. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the importance of innovation, and at most in the current context, as a tractor in the face of the crisis and for the Greek companies to face the challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight the great work of this Parliament, of the three groups, of the opposition, for the approval of the Alvarin Act, which had unanimous support in June. It is the most advanced law in Spain and Europe on equality and research. And it was thanks to the consensus of the People's Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party, and that I think it deserves a lot more through the work of the R & D+i sector. And I finish with real cases and they'll understand exactly what you're talking about. I had the opportunity, in one of the programs developed by the German Government -- I think everyone will know -- the Innovation Path initiative, to check how practical cases were, real cases, where many companies were talking about that they recognized to put innovation, but exactly, they didn't know if they were really innovating. One company told exactly the professional experience and how innovation was formed in it. A company that was born with the union of three Greek colleges, which was born to geolocalize and track the activity of the extended cattle through a subcutaneous microchip. It's simply a company that had its headquarters in the Comarca de Terra Chá, in a very small municipality, and that managed, with the wisdom of the three university students, to export its microchip not only to Spain but to different places in the world. I'm done, president. There is, of course, a lot of way to go, and we don't doubt it, but with the reality of these two examples it is clear that much progress is being made in working out Galicia's attractiveness to create, develop and attract innovative companies that generate wealth, quality employment and social well-being. Let's keep working for the potential Greek. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u242	Thank you, President. Mrs. Vázquez, the data I gave in my speech are the data of the European Commission, I didn't invent them. They are data from the European Commission! And the data is also from INE! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] What I told you is that in 2019 the investment in innovation was 760 million, but that in 2020 it was 722 million, which lowered the investment in innovation. The INE and the European Commission, I don't make them up! It's just that, really, it seems to me... If you want to jam the data, it is done and it is done. And who didn't understand that of the 12 million I think it's you, because it's a coat of hair, but good. I mean, there's no competitiveness without innovation. That's why the Autonomic Government of Feijóo has to accompany the Galician companies to investigate and innovate. And this accompaniment is getting more and more invested and bet on public-private collaboration. The Galician Union has to raise the level of public funding in R & D+i — and I will repeat it again and again — because Galicia is lagging behind in this area, with less investment at present on gross domestic product than in previous stages. That's right! And I have just set an example for you with the north of Portugal, of how you are left behind, but you are left behind with respect to other autonomys and other European regions. That's right! We're in the R & D+i tail wagon in Europe. Yes, it is! And also, in order to see what we have insisted on, I will tell you that since the beginning of this legislation, in November 2020, a non-law proposal that we have brought to this plenary was adopted unanimously, in which we urged the Galician Council to develop an ambitious plan in Greek at R+D+i in 2021, with a higher budget allocation, which allowed us to double the total expenditure in research, development and innovation to place Galicia in the Spanish media. But the Government of Feijóo is constantly in breach of parliamentary agreements, which is quite worrying, because it seems that the legislative power - I would like to remind you that it is in this Parliament - is ignored by the executive power of Nuñez Feijóo over and over again. [[Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez denies her head from her seat.]] Yes, yes! That's right! Before the time is over, I don't want to stop reading this news that really hit me a bit: "The Board warns: neither campuses nor companies can capture all the Galician talent at R & D." What does that mean? What's really a problem having a Greek talent at R & D? [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán reads a document.]] Is that really a problem? It's just...! My mother! I mean, it's a problem! And I tell them how they can solve it: tell Feijóo to solve this problem is in their hands. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Stand up. And you know how to solve it? Very easy: with more investment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u243	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u244	...with more investment to strengthen the business fabric, so they bet on the R & D+i, and more investment to give stability to the squares on college campuses. Yes, it is! I'll also read another news: "Economic Forum experts reveal Galician R+D+i deficiencies and warn that the escape of talent will go worse in the short term." [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán reads another document.]] I don't say it, the Economic Forum says it, because it looks like we're the ones who invented all this. Not at all! Here it is! The investigator's staff in Galicia are working in precarious ways, and Mr. Feijóo and his government have to dignify the great work of all researchers and researchers. I want to recognize here the great work they do, and above all, since this week, on Friday, is Women's and Girls' Day in Science, I also want to recognize the great work of scientists in Galicia; that great work that is not recognized, but which is there, because they are working in an invisible way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u246	Yes, I end by saying that the Government of Spain is committed to improving the working life of researchers and researchers with the reform of the Law of Science, which will help to pay back a historical debt to science in our country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u248	...aggravated by a decade of special abandonment. Paying off that debt is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u250	...fundamentally for providing more rights and opportunities for our researchers and researchers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u252	Nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u253	We move on to the next item on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and a further 40 Members, on the actions to be taken in Galicia to give priority to the design process of the first textile fibre factory in Spain and to reiterate to the Government of Spain the need to establish support lines within the framework of the European Funds Next Generation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u254	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u255	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen — it's almost evening. The Mechanism of Recovery and Resilience that has enabled the European Union to respond to the economic crisis that has generated the terrible pandemic that we have not yet been able to overcome has an objective, which is to give member states mechanisms to be able to make investments and reforms in their recovery plans. It is founded on six pillars — which you all know for sure —: ecological transformation; digital transformation; intelligent, sustainable and inclusive growth; social and territorial cohesion; economic, social and institutional health and resilience; and policies for the next generation, childhood and youth. The Board, turning to these principles, presented its candidacy, focused on taking advantage of what we understand is undoubtedly an extraordinary opportunity to continue improving Galicia — the Galicia we believe in — and making it increasingly a more competitive, enterprising and cohesive territory, and always based on innovation and sustainability. A strategic bet to establish business and institutional synergies, working and bet on an economic model that grows on public and private collaboration, because pemmes and autonomy are the necessary engine of our economy, and on a sustainable development, vertebrate and with an advanced industry. The sensitivity of all political forces and of the Union at this time, which they define as historical, is essential. It is a time to point out — and it must be taken into account in a debate like today — that the Ministry has virtually stayed with a hundred percent of the recovery funds: 1,700 in 2021 and 4,875 in 2022. Having said this, the German Government is still working, and it understands that we have to be proactive and that we have to be agile in execution and get those investments to penetrate our pemes and consolidate opportunities for creating the employment of the productive fabric, which is the main objective. We repeat — this afternoon and in this plenary session, once again, and we hear it again — that this sensitivity must always be demonstrated in preparing applications for the Recovery and Resilience Fund, of course, and in supporting the projects — like the initiative I present today — but also, of course, in defending the jobs of Ence, in defending the competitive and stable electric price for Alcoa, in defending the electric and competitive price for Alu Iberica, in betting for a fair energy transition, in supporting a pact of state for Ferrolterra... Finally, proposals that this Parliament has already discussed and that we have justified, and we must continue in our struggle to achieve these positive results for all those companies and for all those workers who look at us, without a doubt, with hope. There's positive data, with humility, but also with realism: industrial production in high Galicia and export figures beat records. I insist, with humility, but always with realism as well. It's a time of difficulty to which, in the case of Galicia or in the case of Spain, we add the difficulty of reposing ourselves to a terrible pandemic, which we define as an energy crisis and a lack of planning. But all of this we also have to use it to put solvent and serious projects on the table as we stand here today. The Galician Board, within the framework of the Next Generation Fund projects, has been working for over a year and has presented a project for the creation of a sustainable textile factory; an investment of more than EUR 8 billion and an impact on employment that can exceed the five hundred jobs. Without a doubt, a transforming project that would have a positive impact on our territory. And it's not a debate I'm introducing. It was already mentioned here in the debate of the state of Autonomy, and the president expressed the interest that the location of that factory was the province of Lugo. I am grateful today that the president doesn't miss Lugo, as he knows Lugo never misses the president. But I also appreciate that this bet — that work, which we know to be so — has to be serious, of course, and with the rigour of finding in that territory a kind message to an investor — because we have to say it in a clear way too — now known, Others. [[Applause]] The proposal for an agreement here is the following: to give priority to the design process of the first textile fibre factory in Spain because it is a great bet, both from the economic and labour point of view and from the strategic point of view, since it would allow the cycle of wood production in Galicia to be closed, as well as its preferred placement in the region of the Navy. And if the technical criteria do not guarantee viability in this location, in any case, in the province of Lugo. And in point 2 — I think it is also very important, as well as the first one — we want to reiterate to the Government of Spain the need to establish lines of support within the framework of the European Next Generation funds for the development of this project as quickly as possible. I mean, we're seeing that the management of these European funds by the Government of Madrid is slow and that it's not transparent either. We have seen as a "digital" way — and I don't mean digital because it is technological, but rather finger — that it has been put on territories like Extremeura, with 57 million euros, for a centre of innovation — that we have nothing against extremes, but what we ask is transparency and equal opportunities, or as 450 million of the funds of the Ministry, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, for active employment policies, which should correspond to autonomous communities, and which are then divided according to a type of competitive competition or competition 9 million of these funds only between four autonomys: Navarra, Basque Country, Valencian Community and Extremes — which we have nothing against the neighbours and neighbours of these communities. We don't want to be any more, but neither do we. The predisposition of the board is clear. The work, moreover, is supported by a committee of experts, of those who are known — as you know — with competitive projects and working in coordination with the private initiative. I don't think anyone disputes the convenience of the project. We need, being a great forest power, to close the cycle and, of course, also to go out into the market with absolutely innovative projects. That is to say, we all agree — certainly all — that it is absolutely appropriate and that we agree — certainly all — that it is an enormous opportunity. This is where you are, of course, asking for that high point of view and above all that message of certainty, of unanimity, if possible, for that investor who is undoubtedly a key piece in this project and who, of course, you agree with me, we can define it as a transformer for a province. Because not only will it benefit the exact location of that project, but it will benefit a whole sector, the thousands of forest owners, who will undoubtedly see their properties and products valued. In short, it's a new way out for a forest sector that would close the cycle in our Galicia. We had some conversations this afternoon, and I appreciate that high point of view. Also, of course, I thank all my colleagues for the opportunity to present this initiative and to defend with very concrete facts and requests what can be a transforming project for Lugo — which I believe undoubtedly deserves, and that is where the resource is — and I hope that among all of us will come to an agreement to send a message of hope after such a struggle this afternoon — dialectic, I mean. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u257	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u258	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs Candia started by talking about those recovery funds, those resilience funds, those Next Generation funds, and also criticizing them, because she came to say that the Government of the State was left with most of the funds, these Next Generation funds. And I would like to remind you, Mrs Candia, that it was thanks to the Government of the State, to the proactive position of the Government of the State, that we were able to negotiate and obtain those next generation funds, in particular its President, President Sánchez, and that, thanks to the efforts of the Government of Spain, today we have these European funds, those Next Generation funds. And I would like to remind you, Mrs Candia, that it is not true that the state is left with most of these funds, because Galicia only in the year 2021 received 681 million euros from these next generation European funds. And you said you don't want to be more than Extreme and not more than Euskadi, but I want to tell you that Euskadi received 488 million, Extreme, 435 million and Galicia, 681 million. [[Applause]] So that speech that the Government of the State is left with most of the funds is not true. The truth is that Mrs Candia spoke of something — which is true, in part — that there is a compromise proposal for the initiative they have tabled today. But I would like to recall that this compromise is based on the amendment tabled by the PSdEG, because the initiative, as brought by the Popular Parliamentary Group, does not speak at any time in the Navy region. And I want to read literally: "...so as it propitiates" -- the Galician Union -- "his placement in the province of Lugo through his representation in the Impulse society." [[Mr. Otero Rodríguez reads a document to the members of the House.]] This initiative, which is registered on 20 January 2022, is the same motion for a resolution that the People's Parliamentary Group made in the debate on the state of autonomy — also speaking of the Province of Lugo — to which the PSdeG Parliamentary Group presented a compromise proposal for others to come to the Navy district; but the People's Parliamentary Group rejected this proposal for a compromise of the Socialist Parliamentary Group by telling the neighbouring Navy that Others for the Navy, no. That was October 2021. It seemed, with his own initiative, that they again had an impact on the province of Lugo, but that they forgot about the Navy. I thank the People's Parliamentary Group today for rectifying and recalling. But why is that? It's thanks to the pressure that has been exerted since the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities, which represents mayors and mayors of all political colors. But in particular, I would also like to launch here a launch in favour of its President, the President of the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities, who has actually been working for at least the debate that the location of Others is coming to the Navy. [[Applause]] So we haven't changed our position. We already discussed the state of autonomy, when Mr. Feijóo said he would allow the placement in Lugo province, we said that there was a little more to be achieved, that we had to go to the Navy district, because it is really where the resources are and where it is — Mrs. Candia, you know it better than anyone — the forest mass. So, today, by making our amendment here, it goes a little bit of marine nationalism. Let's go to the Navy. Today it seems that the pressure of the mayors and mayors of the Navy - among which there are mayors of the People's Party, who also said that on the side of the Galician Union should put all the meat on the assailant to work for others to settle in the Navy - and the pressure of the PSdeG somewhat diverted the Popular Parliamentary Group. We have an inquiry tomorrow to the councillor, because it seems that today we are breaking the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group to work for others to settle in our area. What we want to know tomorrow too is the position of the Government of the Council of Galicia, because the truth is that the President of the Council of Galicia and the Councillor at no time made statements in favour of the Navy. The truth is that they quite avoid this subject, and also to the mayors and mayors of the Navy, because — you know it as I do — from the Commonwealth of Marine Municipalities itself if you sent them a letter requesting an interview with Mr. Conde, who did not get an answer. Afterwards, a letter was sent to the president of the board, and the truth is he doesdged them, making them a snake to the most Bisbal style. So we'll try to interview the advisor tomorrow to find out what the position of the Galician Union is and if, for once, they're going to work to ensure that the placement of Others in the Navy district is a reality. It is true that in the debate of the state of Autonomy we voted in favour of the proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group for its placement in Lugo province, because we know what the People's Party lords are and then they would tell us that we will not even vote in favour of our province. The truth is, on the second point of his proposal, we're going to throw balloons out again by placing duties on the Government of the State, those who didn't get any funds, those who were able to conquer that 681 Funds Next Generation had reached our autonomous community only in the year 2021. What I ask you, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is to make sure that Others will be installed in our region, and then we will work among all of you to ensure that these Next Generation funds arrive at this project, which is fundamental — as Mrs Candia said —; but it is essential above all for a region — since we have spoken so much in this Parliament — that it is undergoing a serious industrial crisis. The other day I would paraphrase Mr. Feijóo's words, which appeared there in a somewhat strange way, on a periployment of an unofficial journey as President of the Galician Union, but rather as representative of the People's Party. [[Mrs. Otero Rodríguez does a few gestures with her hands.]] He came to release a sentence that is, "If the Navy were Vigo, Alcoa wouldn't leave." And what I'm saying is, "If the Navy were Vigo, others would settle in the Navy." That was paraphrasing Mr. Feijóo's words, because it seems like it's all about throwing balloons out, that he doesn't have any industrial responsibility and that all the problems come from when Pedro Sánchez arrived at Moncloa. So don't do the other way around. Don't put the car in front of the woods and work to conquer this emplacement in the Navy, and I compromise myself, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to work for those Next Generation funds to help this project. In early October 2021, we knew the intentions of the Portuguese industrial Alti, who was looking for a placement for the location of the new textile fiber plant. I told Mrs Candia that she could give the 1,500 people — as far as we know — employment, and in October 2021, we were told that the main option fighting the company Others was The Navy was shining. But that company is not alone in the search for placement for its new plant, since — I would like to remember — the Council of Galicia leads the Impress Galicia Consortium, which makes up the Council of Galicia, Abanca, Reganosa and Sogama itself, in which Others would be the industrial partner and its implementation could be carried out through these next generation funds. Since then, before the announcement made by Others, Marine mayors and mayors have claimed, from the very first moment, that they have worked and if they have done all they can to ensure that Others have settled in our area, not only because of the serious industrial crisis that we are living in our region, but also because of the importance that the forest sector has in it; in which more than sixty-nine percent — almost seventy percent — of its surface is forest mass and where the largest area of eucalyptus production is found. Therefore, the Navy is a point in the forest sector and has raw material, but it does not have the industry to complement it and give it added value. We cannot forget that 43% of Galician timber cuts and 25% of all Spain focus on the north: in the Luminous Navy, in Ortegal and in the Coruña Seas. So, from the very first moment and also looking like Others said that the main location would be the Comarca of the Navy, we don't understand that since the Unity of Galicia he hadn't bet on this placement, because he's always been dodging the province of Lugo. But we have not heard, in the words of any leader of the People's Party, asking for this placement for the Navy district, and much less we listen either to the president of the Galician Union or to the councillor asking for this placement for Others. So what we ask for is not so much obscurantism and work for others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u259	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u260	...—Finished, president—is settled in our county. The truth is that we thank and are glad that today the People's Parliamentary Group seems to rectify and accept, too, on the basis of our amendment — it is true that we are presenting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u262	...a compromise proposal, which must be put in the debate of the Navy. I'm asking you is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u264	...I work hard and hard to ensure others come to the Navy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u265	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u266	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u268	Thank you very much, President. Good evening. Today it was softer than the other day. Perhaps it was now and surely in the replica there is a little more dialectic battle stronger. I don't know if it's gonna end up in pies, in pastels or whatever, but it's saved for dinner dessert. It is a little difficult to debate today on the subject of Others for two reasons: the first is that it went out in the newspapers itself — at the same time — that the company has already been looking for 46 locations and says it will decide in a few weeks. So a little bit here we're going to debate something the company will decide and it's going to happen. That's what the industrial policy of the Union has to be whatever it is, because it's the usual one. We just need to know what the company wants to do, and then Junta will put the red carpet on it. This reminds me of when we once discussed in Commission 6th, and I told them I'm a little bit like a sort of real estate portal, like Fotocasa or Idealist, but instead of putting up floors, garages and so on, they put the whole country, they put it in parcels, and they tell companies: they pass and see, they choose what they like most, and still above them without bail, and they can leave when they want to leave everything like this. Who had also given to many young people and girls in our country that their rents were something similar to the industrial policy of Union! [[Applause]] But, well, in the particular of the subject, I have many questions, the truth is, because, for example, did this talk to any councilman?, did they speak with any deputation?, did they talk to the Mancommunity or spoke to someone who wasn't a company person; i.e., they spoke to a mayor or mayor and they said, "Hey, see, Mayor, Mayor, is it likely that this company, which is going to bring 1,500 direct jobs, is it installed in its county?" They didn't talk to anyone else but the company! So, today, what have we come to debate here, should the company do what it wants? Unfortunately, they have the government, and they're going to do the same, because we've come to vote for the company finally to be located in the province of Lugo — it seems now more concretely in the Navy. And it seems wonderful to us, but let's remember that this company, in this case its people, is Portuguese; these people did not appear to the elections, just as it happened with the Americans of Alcoa and the Danish Vestas. And in the end, they end up sending more than the Board itself, because they will end up deciding directly where they'd better come from without any concrete debate on the concrete location of the factory. I think it's very nice that we always talk about the Navy, but today again, the PP brings the washing of the industrial face in our neighborhood, if it finally settles there and if it finally settles, that everything needs to be seen. I wish I did! And I'm also saying this because, as the Socialist Party's companion said, a week ago and very little ago, there was a defiant appearance of Mr. Feijó in a comarcal debate about Alcoa, in a radio debate. Suddenly, Mr. Feijóo arrived, and at the passing of everyone gave a rally, because they don't think he was there to debate even much less — how would he debate Mr. Feijóo?—but he went there to give a little half-hour radio rally, in which he came to say things that were just too pessimistic, like he didn't think the tubs would recover in 2024. It's sad enough to say this to the president of this country, but I think it's a little bit to put the sale before the wound, and then, in 2024, if they don't reboot, of course, it won't have anything to do with the Galician Union. And if they were to reboot, surely it was Feijóo himself, who went to rebuff his own vats. But you better not take a chance and say it's very hard now to reboot that. And when Alcoa is like this and when Vestas no longer exists because they let her go, because they now come to us with Others, that name that we have so many times heard, but we don't know very well what she wants to do; starting from the obvious basis that we are the first to rejoice at any project that fulfills all legislation and that is installed in the Navy or anywhere in the country and that brings that expectation of so many direct jobs, of so much direct employment. But they also have to be careful with what they say, because they have many promises made since the Government of Unity to the Navy, or even when they ruled in the state, and almost none or nothing has been fulfilled. And, now, watch out!, they're announcing 1,500 direct jobs. As it turns out, they have no problem playing a little with people's hope! You've seen it the other day, associating the windmills and using the Alcoa as an alibi to place your windmills there and those of your excons. I ask you to be careful, because you are not — as you say in a way — the cake oven. And in a way, they do listen to what I just said, because right now in the press it's coming out that the company promises 2,000 direct jobs. The People's Party already speaks of 1,500. See how many they end up being, in the end! But I hope they arrive — I repeat —. And I'm saying all this too because the reality we're living in the neighborhood is pretty hard, and it's not just the BNG, but it's said here by a newspaper that has nothing subversive -- let's say -- This is yesterday's news: "Business in The Navy fell in 2020 below 6,600. For the first time in a lustro the number of companies in A Marinena fell in 2020 below 6,600." [[Mr. Castro García reads news to the members of the House.]] See also that, despite high school in the Bipartite, I can speak Spanish with total fluency. [[Applause]] So this news is pretty hard, and before that the board is still waiting, see if, again, a company click on that portal of Idealist, if there's luck and it gives you to install a factory here. Because that's their industrial policy, instead of being the leaders and looking for how to govern that plan, something structured, something with the future. But it's just that I woke up today and saw in the morning a headline saying the following: "The People's Group demands to avoid debates that do not contribute to the success of the first textile fibre factory in Spain in Galicia." [[Mr. Castro García reads news to the members of the House.]] So, I think to myself: what are we going to do here in the Galician Parliament?, debate, for what?, if we've come here all afternoon, nothing more. If total, Others will end up doing what they want; Others will place themselves where they best come from and they're totally right. Why are we going to debate something in the Galician Parliament? And then, in addition, I said, "God, there must be heaven, the great entrepreneurs of Others, tremendous, seeing this debate! I hope the member of the Galician Nationalist Block does not draw debates on Alcoa, because if not, we are leaving this country! If Daniel Castro Garcia talks about Alcoa, let's go, and the Navy's out of business! This is probably happening. But more seriously: please give this house some courage and dignity and don't do what they've been doing for a long time, giving it little television space and that this isn't a mere Parisian. And, as I said, in the absence of the People's Party's industrial policy, since the BNG we've been telling them again — today again, and they've voted again in the morning against the Industrial Plan — that we're going for the sixth time in this legislation. The Navy told him well on the day of the general strike, and even more or less I told him below this paper: that there is a need for a structured policy, something organized, something in which the Board as a government says: I am the government of this country and I will seek solutions as a democratically elected government for the region of the Navy. And don't wait for companies that come from any other point in the world to solve my hypothetical problem and solve me that way. That's why Galician Union has to design this strategy, and that's why we bring this amendment back to them, which we expect a new miracle. By the way, I remind you that the last time they left everything in the hands of the companies, it didn't turn out very well to say, as was the case with Vestas. I'm not going to say that the company hesitated, for a little bit about the nearly 100 people who finished and are on the street right now, but when you said that there was no problem, that it was all settled, that there was no idea how many investors were going to settle in the space that left Vestas, it was the companies themselves who were telling them that nanai — as my mother says — the Chinese nanai, who were not. And so we are now, with which almost a hundred people are in the street and with which Vestas is no longer in Chavin, in Viveiro. In short, tell us high and clear where you want to locate that company that so much employment will give, because the province of Lugo in its initial text has 67 municipalities, and if the Union is not able to tell us three, four or five, that are the priority options, as the government that it is, the only thing it will do is give us reason to what the BNG says, that they have no control over what happens with respect to our industry in our country. As a government, what less to say three, four or five municipalities about which are going to be the options of a company that, in theory, will bring 1,500 direct jobs! Let's repeat it again. As hard as we care, I'm the Government of this country, totally legitimate; so they do their work and govern, and if they don't want to, they stay calm that in two years we've already done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u269	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-legislation proposal, the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u270	Let's just focus a little bit on the idea of what was said here today. It turns out that a committee of experts presents a project, the Board works and sends a project, which meets all the criteria, to Next Generation funds; a project that achieves an incredible investment. We're talking about creating 1,500 jobs, and, with all due respect, Mr. Castro compares it with a photo of the Idealist! But, let's see! I recognize that it might have been very easy for you to get here, I recognize you. But this -- I told you the other day, and I wanted to be much more kind of dialectically, because we're talking about an exciting project -- is serious. Creating jobs is probably the primary responsibility for people who are involved in politics. [[Applause]] Mrs. Otero, you missed a historic opportunity too, because of all you said I didn't hear it -- and you had a huge opportunity -- to say, you calm down, the project likes me -- that it seems to be clear -- and the government of the state is going to allocate next generation funds to Galicia for that project. That's what I had to answer here. [[Applause]] And he says there's a correction from the Popular Group. In the debate of the state of Autonomy he was apostolate by a province, not by a whim. I have already said that I think we should be moderate and prudent — and I agree with Castro — because, of course, we are being heard by serious investors, whom you criminalize. But we continue to advocate that companies, pemmes and autonomouss are those who create wealth in our country. And, yes, within the law we'll help them. [[Applause]] Let's help them! It's not the bad guy in the bag, Mr. Castro. They are necessary in our productive fabric, and we say it loud and clear, respecting the law. But, of course, in this group you will have a policy that encourages job creation and support for pemes, self-government and businesses. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. We don't hide. It's worth nothing to you: the wind, not others, not Alcoa... to talk about prudence, photos and ads, when I've never heard an apology from this atrium for that expectation generated by that picture of Ana and Adriana promising them that everything was solved by a photo, by a photo, by a photo!, because I wanted to prove that it was worth it and that I could solve with a deputy what... of course Galicia no longer deposited that trust, but they wanted to join her, and they went on to history, bad that they care—he repeats it whenever he has occasion—because it was the Galego Nationalist Block, which put Pedro Sánchez in the Government. And Pedro Sánchez was precisely the president of the Government who gave him the button to shut down the vats. [[Applause]] Do you remember? [[Murmurs.]] You screamed just like me at the demonstrations: Cubans don't shut up! And his leader — who was accompanying us today — was going out by hand to Adriana: Alcoa solved. And it wasn't even solved, nor did the vats continue to work. And I'm telling you one thing, I wish it would work! See what you're proposing, because it theoretically says that the People's Party defends the wind and that it seems to be a mistake to save the Alcoa. You're getting confused, because you have that obsession with the People's Party, and everything that's not going... no! That's what Mr. Formoso said, who publicly still said the other day that it is now necessary to demand agility from the Government of the Union to authorize all wind energy for Alcoa to have the PPAs and to open the vats before 2024. By the way, you must have courage!, after you are supporting and applauding the minister, who had a consensual text and unanimously supported by this whole House to give Alcoa continuity solution. And why am I going to Alcoa? Because I came here to talk about the textile fiber project. The obsession with the location is indisputable. There are bad consciences. How are you not going to be, Mrs. Otero? Why were they taking the picture to the square at the Opratoiro, which they thought was very wrong? 'Cause they couldn't go to deer or Jupiter, 'cause they ran all over them. Do you know how your friends were received in the Deputy? As the Socialists of Pacotilla, and so they have repeatedly called them, because all the management that the Socialist Party has done — and I say it in absolute moderation, but convinced of what I say — all the energy policy that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has made with Alcoa, is outraged and the Navy does not deserve it. [[Applause]] Now — it is true — it seems to you that the President of the Commonwealth — ladies and gentlemen, who has been with the minister, theoretically, to bring the Sustenibility Plan, which we have already lost the previous year for reasons that are not coming to the case now — took a wonderful picture — which was no longer agreed where — when we were in the full process of approval of the Statute, and you want to empower that mayor — who I fully respect — who was unable to convince his minister — for which he asked for the vote — that he had approved the text of the Electrointensive Statute, and that he was able to convince us that we had to pay attention to what he was saying. But if he really didn't say anything! All he did was read the project; and he liked, as we like him and all the mayors — by the way, Mr. Castro also to his —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u272	Ribadeu's was one of the first mayors to come out saying he wanted him to settle down there with Others. So it shouldn't be a pantomime of the project. I'm going to finish. I think it's a historic moment. When we talk about numbers, of course, there's no need for interpretation. When I say the state doesn't give us what's ours, here's Galicia, at point 11. He's 11 ahead, and nine are from the Socialist Party for the distribution -- I said -- "digital." [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document and points to that point.]] But that's what I miss. [[Mrs. Candia López makes a gesture with her fingers.]] It's still in time to be able to fix it, because now, which is what it really brought here today, there's a message that our province can be an ideal location. I think Lugo deserves it and I think we are -- and I agree with the figures you gave -- a forest power, and in this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u274	...you have to work. I apologize to the committee of experts, of course, and to all the work of the board, for underestimating and almost disparaging a project of this size, because sometimes, when I hear them, I come to mind the typical phrase of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u276	...for you, "how much worse goes to Galicia, better for you," and it's not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u277	About the amendments, what about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u278	Obviously, a text is read and there is agreement. Point 2 of the Socialist Party does not accept it, and I have also explained the reasons to the speaker. And the amendment for the addition of the Galego Nationalist Block — which, a little less, comes to say that all of this is very good, but I don't believe anything or I bet anything about it — undoubtedly you can't accept either. But, in any case, I don't think he's misdirecting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u279	Thank you. I wasn't in the debate. Did you read a text before or something? Yeah? And you read publicly? [[Assentment.]] So that's what I was asking. [[Assentment.]] And what about that text is where you possibly see the transaction? That's right. [[Assentment.]] Let's start voting. Then, at that moment, we'll see about that. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u280	We voted, firstly, on the popular initiative, but it was debated and brought here to this House by the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block for a Greek public system of people-care services. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u281	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Mercedes Complaints. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas and two other Members, on the demand to the Galician Union to develop a strategic action plan aimed at attracting part of the Next Generation funds for the reactivation and momentum of the Galician culture. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u282	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. [[Mr. Seco García asks for the floor.]] Ask Mr. Dry for the word. What do you want the word for, Mr. Seco?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u283	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u284	Yes, now it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u285	He said that in our own intervention we will ask the People's Party if you can separate the first point from the others and vote by point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u286	Split the first point alone? Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u287	This is an initiative on which we commit ourselves to the corporate committee to submit and therefore the vote is taken in full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u288	Thank you. We voted for it as it is. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u289	We now vote for the Socialist Group, on the initiative of Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union for local corporations to benefit from the Programme of First Professional Experience. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. That proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u290	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Leticia Gallego. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, on the actions that must be carried out in Galician Union to increase the budget of the program to boost innovation in small and medium-sized industries. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u291	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Elena Candia López. There's a transaction proposal. The amendment to the Block seems to be not accepted. And that compromise proposal is to be put to the vote. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo and a further 40 Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia to give priority to the design process of the first textile fibre factory in Spain and to reiterate to the Government of Spain the need to establish support lines within the framework of the European Funds Next Generation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-08-DSPG068.u292	The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
