ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u1	We resume the session, continuing with the fifth item on the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Union of Galicia in order to maintain the economic support measures directed to self-employed persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u2	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G. G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, through her spokesperson and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented before the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal for non-law:Ream amendment must be replaced by Mrs Carmen Rodríguez Da Costacosta, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, to the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal:Ream amendment amendment must be replaced by the resolution of the non-law proposition by the following substance:""The Galician Parliament urges Galician Parliament to the Galician Parliament to:1o- By launching a cross-border shock shock plan for families, autonomous persons and corporations and businesses to counter the effects of the War War on Ukraine.2o- Governing the Government of Spain's recovery, Transformation and Resilience of Successors within the framework of the social dialogue frameworks of the social dialogue, how best-of the social dialogue, when the success of the Toledness of the Toled social dialogue, the Toledness of the Toledness of the Toledness of the Toled social dialogue, the Toled People's system of the entire system of the success of the entire system of the United People's. most, and the budget, the budget of the contributions of the budget of the contributions of the contributions of the contributions system, the contributions system, the contributions of the people, the people, the most people, the most people's of independents of independents of independent contribution of independents of independents, the most powerful, the labour contributors of independents of independents, the labours of independents of the labours, the labours, the labours, the labours, the most, the autonomous, the autonomous, the autonomous, the most powerful, the most powerful, the most powerful, the autonomous, the autonomous, the system, the autonomous, the autonomous, the people, the autonomous, the autonomous, the autonomous, the people, the autonomous, the autonomous, the most powerful and autonomous, the system, the system, the most and the people, the people, the autonomous, the autonomous, the autonomous, the autonomous, the autonomous, the people, the system, the autonomous, the autonomous, the people, the]] To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin and I want my first words to be of complicity and support to the thousands of professionals who are on the streets protesting these days, showing their discomfort, to those who have also been forced to suspend their way of work and who are telling us that they can no longer and that they are ruining themselves, that they are suffering in the first person the consequences of the ineffective management that characterizes the Government that President Pedro Sanchez is leading. This left-wing government that is proposing against the ropes to the vast majority of the productive sectors of our country. I'm talking about sectors as essential and important to Galicia as the primary sector, livestock, fishing, a long and so forth, with serious consequences also in the supply chain of commodities. And the streets these days are overwhelming. Many people can't cope with their energy bill or price rises. And yesterday, President Feijóo, President of the Union, spoke loud and clear, and he also said that the Moncloa's current tenant should stop looking the other way. Pedro Sánchez, invested with the vote of the Nationalist Block Galego and with the support of the radical left, does not have a minute to lose, must assume his responsibilities and it is essential that the Government of Sánchez take action and do so already. The economic situation has deteriorated for over a year, and while Galicia responds within its powers, the Government of Pedro Sánchez remains absent. I call on Members of the opposition in this Parliament to be brave, to stand on the side of the workers, to stand on the side of the self-employed, to stand on the side of the people and to tell the Moncloa "suff already". But I also want to tell all those people who are on the streets protesting, families suffocated with bills coming to their homes and all those people who are becoming a bad drink, visiting a gas station or buying the shopping cart, which there is another way to govern and that there is an alternative. In fact, we saw him at the last council of the Board, and yesterday we saw him in this House. In the absence of the Central Government's initiative, the Union approved, within its competence, a package of measures to alleviate the consequences of rising prices and bring liquidity to businesses. For example, the axillization of the thermal social bond or performances in fisheries or in agribusiness. So there are alternatives, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, many of those people who are suffering the consequences of the crisis are autonomous. In Galicia there are about 208,000 self-employed workers who need measures to ensure their continuity, to avoid closures and, if so, to strengthen them as well. And so today, the People's Parliamentary Group is calling for a shock plan, a plan to support our own and our own, which would be based on three pillars: The first is to continue the stimulus measures which contribute to the viability and consolidation of the business and economic projects they carry out. The second is to reduce the taxation of self-government, and it's very important this data, to banish any attempt to rise or increase what they pay for their contributions. And the third, given the escalation of prices that we are suffering, we call for effective measures to be taken, to reduce the cost of energy and fuel prices, because, we do not forget, energy and fuel are decisive factors in ensuring the competitiveness of the self-government group, and they are decisive costs whatever activity they do. In the People's Party we are convinced that, unlike the Government of the Union, the Executive of Pedro Sánchez has made the wrong decisions in the last three years that leave Spain in a worse position than the rest of the countries to deal with this situation. And now, unfortunately for all, they're not knowing how to give up. And that's why we put all these measures on the table, measures that are positive to the ones we hope to succeed, and those that we will succeed. We are demanding, our initiative places duties on all administrations, also on the Galician Union, but, as the People's Party in Galicia has the responsibility of the Government, we are starting from the Government, and yesterday the president of the Union has seen them. I'm sure we all agree: autonomy is a priority collective because of its strength, its ability to generate wealth and to generate jobs. Today this collective still drags the consequences of the pandemic restrictions. Most of the activities that had to be restricted focused on two areas: hospitality and commerce, with a large number of self-employed. And in the last year they also bear the escalation of energy costs, of scarcity, of rising prices of raw materials, of rising inflation and of rising minimum wage. Any decision that will be taken in the future for this sector should be geared towards ensuring its continuity, providing strengthening formulas. But reality shows a very different behavior from different administrations in their degree of commitment to these professionals. While the Galician Union has injected more than 610 million euros into direct aid to the Italian productive tissue, consisting mostly of 97% in this case, by autonomous and micro-enterprises; or with support in 2021, speaking of a full year, some 3,700 autonomouss to consolidate and expand their activities, the Government of Pedro Sánchez acts differently. The executive who presides Socialist Pedro Sánchez is causing his asphyxiation. Since January 1st the autonomouss are paying more in their quotas, as the minimum basis of quote has become 966 euros. The year 2021 ended for the autonomous with a rise in social contributions introduced into the state's general budgets and imposed without prior communication and without dialogue with this collective. It all points to that the goal of the Government of Spain is to continue to increase the collection to account for the efforts of the self-employed. And I think they're wrong. In the People's Party we do not deny that the system of contributions should be reformed, but it is not the time to do so now, nor is it the right reform right now. The new system of contributions for self-employed people must be born from reflection and consensus, listening to all the interlocutors. The vast majority of self-employed should not be allowed to see their costs increased in an unfair way and with the only pursuit. The slogan used by the Government of Spain in tax matters, which pay the rich, shows that it is a great farce. The lack of economic diligence of the Government of Spain, the widest and most expensive government in our recent history, pays the middle classes and the workers pay it. The rise in fuel taxes; the rise in registration tax and the rise in traffic tax; tax harmonisation at the rise or future initiatives already advanced, such as the imposition of taxes on the use of highways, also assume that it is paid by the self-employed in Galicia. And from the People's Parliamentary Group we think that it is essential and that it is urgent to take measures to support the collective of workers and self-employed people. There's only one correct direction if we want to get out of the pandemic crisis, which is to regain the competitiveness of the economy. It's over, Mr. President. The data reflect that the reforms undertaken by the current German Government and the measures promoted by the Union are effective. The reduction in tax pressure, the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles, the improvement of incentives to work on its own, as well as the launching of specific aids and counselling routes such as the virtual office, achieving support and encouragement for entrepreneurs. That's what we understand from the People's Group that should be the next line. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country we have citizens, girls and young referents, exemplary entrepreneurs, that morning Galicia, that early-day Spain is exemplary, and thus proved it at the most difficult time of the pandemic. Now we need what we're not having, we need a government that is also up to the situation and what our society needs right now, and the Government of Pedro Sánchez is not up to the situation right now. Yesterday in the capital of the province of my province, in the province of Lugo, there was a collapsing place: taxi drivers, lorries, thugs. And in the rest of Galician cities too. And the Government of Spain, according to my friend spokesperson for the Socialist Party before it seems that until the 30th it's very busy and until the 30th it's not going to tell us what it's going to do. You don't have to worry about the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope, in this situation, that both the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Bloc will be able to support this initiative, because we would ultimately be supporting a large part of the business fabric, micro-enterprises, of the autonomous ones we have in our own autonomous community, who need it as much or as ever. Nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u6	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. This decade we're chaining a pandemic with a military war, destruction of lives and a major impact of the productive tissue. Putin's invasion of Ukraine triggered a military conflict with world economic consequences. This complicated situation is affecting families, on Thursdays again, on women; and on the weakest part of the business fabric, on the autonomous, which are one of the most affected by the rising prices of light, gasoline, inflation, the difficulty of access to raw materials and the impact on tourism, a very important and essential collective, there is no doubt about the Greek economy. In this global humanitarian and economic thesis, what does the Galician People's Party do in its explanatory statement of this PRCR registered on February 17th? Hold your hand? No, what he does in his explanatory statement of reasons of this non-law proposal is completely false reality. It should be noted that the Executive who presides over Pedro Sánchez is provoking the asphyxiation of the autonomous; and, on the other hand, the Government presided over by Feijóo has made a great management of the autonomous aid. False, Mr. Balsairo. First of all, the fact that it refers to self-employed people in the month of December in Galicia is not correct, it is not 288,000 workers, but according to sources of Social Security, 208,809. Well, let's put reality with data on the table and not propaganda and marketing, which is what you and our president Feijóo have used to us. With data from December 2021 in hand and extraordinary resources and funds, Galicia received EUR 828.4 million from the extraordinary fund for autonomous communities. With regard to support for workers and businesses, in particular, 210,965 Welsh and Galicians have benefited from the extension of ERTE. EUR 504.9 million was devoted to extraordinary benefits for self-employed and self-employed persons whose activity was affected by the pandemic. 4,456 benefited only in December 2021 of this aid extension because it continues to help self-employed people right now. 1,586 companies in Greece have obtained ICO assets, which have made it possible to finance 348 million euros since January. And not to mention the Next Generation funds, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, assigning you 671 million euros. 215.8 million for active employment policies for Galician citizenship, which were unable to execute — and we have already spoken about it in this House —. This is the reality, Mr. Balsairo, an already unquestionable reality. On the contrary, and today it was not the day to have this confrontation, because the political and economic situation deserves a high level of vision that had led us to seek solutions, as the general secretary of the Socialists, Valentín Formoso, asked the President of the Union, but it is clear that Feijóo was on an organic tour until yesterday; and Pedro Sánchez was visiting 8 countries to convince the members of the European Union to decouple the price of gas and electricity. Today, for example, he was answering his spokesperson, Cuca Gamarro, at the Senate, and he seemed to dislike the intervention of his spokesperson. As the People's Party said, on the other hand, it has come late, badly and traces in the self-government rescue plans, and they know it; in fact, this issue has been debated in this House and the position in various defended initiatives has urged the Board to carry out this aid plan, which since March has not been able to publish it until eight months later. I don't know if you remember the different concentrations and demonstrations in the cities of Greece and the posters that the self-sufficient people stood in their gates in protest against you. In the end, they made a batch of orders with different lines, with a total of 160 million euros for autonomouss and pemes; not to mention the 234 million — which I was saying before — transferred by the state and that they were not executed. And this leads us to reform of the autonomous contribution system that is being discussed at the relevant negotiating table. A collective — that of the autonomous — that has been the subject of particular concern since the Government of Pedro Sánchez was invested, spreading policies consistent with the collective of autonomouss to protect them from the pandemic. The facts show that this collective has been treated differently in this crisis and in the previous one, in which the People's Party has abandoned them to its fate with zero help. Never had an autonomous received an extraordinary allowance from the Government of the State in more than 40 years of democracy, money entered into its current accounts. [[Applause]] Never, ever, if you were exempt from paying your share to Social Security, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, yes. And as a result of this income support policy, the State Government has achieved that today not only did the number of self-employed people fall from the pre- pandemic situation, but that we have 57,000 more autonomous than those we had in the year 2020 in Spain. And as for the half-ish between December 2019 and December 2021, it didn't happen the same thing, we have a 0.8 less autonomous. And I want us to also talk about the previous crisis in very specific data. Between December 2011 and December 2013, we lost 105,000 workers and half a million self-employed, 1 out of every 7. That abandonment of the self-government by the PP Government is still paying for it today. And those are the facts, Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party. And right now, the Ministry of Social Security is engaged in negotiations on contributions reform to comply with three mandates: one, the fourth recommendation of the Toledo Pact, adopted in Congress, which is included in the popular party's favourable votes, which collects that they be promoted in the framework of the social dialogue measures to bring the contribution bases of self-employed and self-employed workers closer to their actual income, since the low contribution characteristic of a collective that mostly contributes to the minimum base is the main cause of their reduced pensions. This new system must have an impact on the improvement of the degree of adequacy of future benefits. And the second term, the pension agreement reached with the social partners last July, which states that, with the aim of improving and strengthening the special scheme protection system for self-employed people and their financing, we agree to establish a system of based contributions — I repeat — we make ourselves real tax-declared. And the third order, for sale and reform number two, of component 30 and of the recovery, transformation and resilience plan, agreed with the European authorities. In Spain, the difference between what happens in all the countries around us, we have some contributions chosen by the self-employed regardless of their income; and in addition, the minimum quote is very high for the self-employed who have low income. This causes the structural deprotection of this collective and that the average RETA retirement is 40% lower than the general regime. On the other hand, the universal minimum quota system is very high for self-employed people who go through low-income phases, so this reform is geared towards making contributions easier for self-employed people in low-income phases, so the objective of the proposed ministry being negotiated is to make a more equitable system, to deal differently with the different economic realities faced by self-employed people; to improve protective action, which is more flexible, and to convert the extraordinary provision created during the pandemic into a structural benefit, in addition to reforming the ordinary by cessation of activity, with the intention of offering autonomous workers the additional right of protection in the face of a crisis or an emergency situation. A system that modulates and adapts to different stages with very low rates when they start their activity, which adapts to their income, and with access to income protection in crisis situations. In conclusion, he's working from the Government with associations and interlocutors to modernize the system of self-protection and design a more fair system and not to abandon autonomy during the bad times. And with current yields, 53% would see their quotas reduced; 17% would not change with respect to the current situation; and especially women and Thursdays, 2 out of every 3 beneficiaries would be women and 2 out of every 3 Thursday. Finally, talking about taxation with you is complicated by the protests that the president has made about the government's compliance with the taxes that the central government is administering. A strategy of circumventing responsibilities and always blaming others for the problems of the autonomous Greek community. During the year 2020 — data from the Welsh Tax Agency — Galicia collected taxes worth EUR 540 million, without adding the taxes that transfer us from the state, such as 100% of electricity or 58% of the special tax on hydrocarbons. However, we have to consider whether the solution is a general tax drop that benefits all equally or to look for formulas to encourage the most disadvantaged sectors; and, of course, also with bonds to families. About the autonomic discounts you're talking about, what, Mr. Balsairo? To which was the average liquidable base in 10 euros, between 18,000 and 24,000 euros, and 500 euros more than 60,000 euros? The tax model of returning Galician board benefits those who have the most, such as succession tax. A fiscal policy that has no real impact, does not create jobs or sets population. In such a complex moment we seek real measures and leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u9	...—term—cosmetic operations for another moment. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u11	President. Good morning to all of you. Before entering what is the decisive part of this initiative, I cannot help but comment on certain issues that are collected in the explanatory statement and which really hurt the eyes. As has been customary in the initiatives of the People's Party's Parliamentary Group, you repeat almost always the same recipe: a piece of data extracted from official sources — it is true — but duly penned to stay with those who seem to show a competent action by the Government of Greece. So you indicate in the first paragraph of the non-law proposition that our land closed in 2021 with an increase in the number of self-employed people showing that more people are engaged every day. They rise in December 2021 to 218.000 people affiliated with the special workers' social security scheme, since it's not right. But it is also, curiously enough, that other data would undoubtedly enrich, and much, the stew; for example, data such as that Galicia has 23,213 autonomous less than in 2009. On that date the number of self-employed was 231.158; in February of this year the figure is reduced to 207,945 autonomous persons. So, well under the people you say were affiliated with the RETA in December 2021. Another really significant fact, that you also shut up, is that since 2009 in no year, except in 2021, the number of employees in this scheme has increased. The years 2010, 2011 and 2012 were the worst years for the collective, who failed to recover the casualties in the following exercises. As they also don't incorporate another important data into the tile, the estimated number of false autonomouss, because another reality you see is that the percentage of people registered in the RETA who respond to the profile of false autonomy, which is precisely people who self-employment to stay in the labour market, especially people over 55 who lost their jobs during the pandemic. Or people who use this figure to continue to provide services in an enterprise at the cost of losing work rights. According to estimates in the GEM Galicia 2020-2021 report, around 20,000 Galicians and Greeks are found in this situation. The GEM must remember that it is an international observatory whose objective is to analyze and evaluate the impact of entrepreneurial activity on economic growth as a determining factor for the development and well-being of societies in which it takes place. The Greek team of the GEM was born of the agreement between the University of Santiago de Compostela, which prepared the study, the Board itself of Galicia — through the Igape — and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs — which also led the team. Will you discuss this data, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Will they also argue that involuntary self-employed people account for more than 30% of the total self-employment in Galicia, 7 points above the state average? Because who says it is the professor at Carlos III University of Madrid Raquel Carrasco and Professor Virginia Hernanz of the University of Alcalá. As it is known, it is duly recognized independenceists of Greece. Of course, autonomous people were one of the most affected collectives by the coward-19. The Bank of Spain in a recent report points out that by May 2020 more than a third of self-employed workers with less yields lost 46% of their income: and the worst thing is that they managed to recover only 17% of those losses by November. The impoverishment of this collective has come from old age, but it is clear that it has increased in recent years, even before the pandemic. A sample of this is the average pensions of the German self-employed, amounting to EUR 668.9; EUR 518 under an employee. According to the report by the Galician Autonomous Association of ATA, the pensions of the autonomous Greeks are among the lowest in the state. But you do not have any of this data when drawing up your own initiative. And so, without that data, what you want to present as a snack stays in a clean broth or, as my grandmother says, in a chili water. And it shows another popular party constant: making a partisan reading of official data, and that's cheating, it's pure autobomb and zero self-critic. The reality is that autonomous people have been dragging a very complicated situation before the pandemic, and that this has undoubtedly accentuated, to the point that we can say that precariousness currently affects a lot of workers on their own. To the point that the Banco de España itself points out that the effect of the pandemic continues to cause pockets of poverty that do not seem to be solved in the medium to short term by inflation, by the constant rise of supplies and raw materials and by the very effects of the Ukrainian war. I won't, of course, be the one who's going to defend the government of the state, but say how you do that the Executive is causing the suffocation of the sector seems to me at least of a rising cynicism. Because, as far as autonomy is concerned, responsibility is shared. It's true that the Union has made the first and second rescue plan available to the Greek business fabric, but it doesn't say that more than nine months have to be passed since the beginning of the pandemic so that the Union will articulate the first lines of direct aid directed to self-government and pemes. For nine months, the toughest ones in the pandemic, neither the Union nor the State linked lines of direct aid to this collective, and this had a dramatic cost: the disappearance of nearly 2% of the companies that make up the German business fabric, consisting mainly of autonomous and micro-enterprises. They only closed in 2020 3,156 companies, according to the balance sheet of the central business directory, DIRCE. With these background, I would fall into the shame of putting in writing, as you do in the body of this initiative, that the data reflect that the reforms undertaken by the Greek Government have achieved support and encouragement to entrepreneurs and that must be the line to follow. [[Applause]] It's a lack of respect because they show pride and a failure of total self-criticism, impropriety of a government that would be called responsible and, above all, honest. With regard to the reform of the system of quotas for self-employed persons that the Government of the State intends, it must be said that, first of all, the way to deal with this reform was at least chaotic. That's something you can observe by simply looking at the press. I'm not going to go into it any more if it's timely or not right now, but what it gives the feeling is to be improvised. This is the only way that it has been understood for months to happen in the context of negotiations that the Government is maintaining with the main autonomous associations constantly changing the proposed new sections or monthly quotas or the basis for contributions. It is clear that a system for tranches can and will surely be positive. Evolution towards a real income-based tranche system would allow self-employed workers to contribute to what they earn, and that's fine. It's fair that those who earn the most pay more to move forward towards a more equitable system. And in this sense, it makes sense that the self-employed in the upper sections have to make a greater contribution effort. That is why we do not understand that if the initial proposal was changed, which started in this case of the State, where quotas remained equal or reduced to most of the autonomous ones and increased the remaining part with higher profits. But with the latest changes, it's going to be a decrease in the income of the system, and it's going to make it more difficult to achieve that more equitable system, which should be the goal of at least one progressive government. But beyond that, from the sector, it's understood that this reform is very green, because it leaves many unregulated issues or does so inconcretely. For example, how are you going to regulate the stretch jump? The tranches make the quote flexible, but what happens if I'm on the income limit to change the frame? That shift from a few euros to a few euros can entail a very, very important cost for an autonomous. Or what happens if in one year my yield is 30,000 euros, paid on a fee and paid a fee close to 500 euros, but the following year those yields are reduced to 10,000. Do I change course and therefore reduce the quota automatically or do I keep what I already have? It's not clear either. How is it going to regulate, for example, the scope of the requirement of habitual work from the level of income? Now when I do sporadic or occasional jobs, if I don't exceed the minimum annual inter-professional wage, I don't have to get up in the RETA, but I don't care either; and this question isn't being dealt with either. Nothing goes any further than the part-time self-employed, a figure in which paid work is compatible with working hours on its own. From BNG we understand that a subject of this silence demands clarity, but also demands completeness. That's all we're going to do is secure autonomous people. And the way to deal with this reform by the Central Government can only be described — and allow me to express myself — as a nonchalant and inconcrete, not to say injury even to the self-employed who move in the first steps, which in Galicia is 85%. And these are going to have to pay more. Returning to the PP, it's also curious that they call for consensus on reform with political groups and representatives of self-government groups. Mr. Feijóo said yesterday that speaking is an obligation of a Government and that we must listen to everyone; "counsels seeing that for me I don't have." The pure cynicism of a Greek Government that refused to speak, for example, with autonomous associations, specifically hospitality, that maintained a critical stance with the way in which the Galician and Government Union acted during the pandemic. It would also be good if they could explain what that expansion of the cessation of activity refers to in their initiative, when it is now 24 months, just like the workers on their own. And watch out for slight use of zero-income expression, rate zero. Because if we don't ask in parallel to strengthen what the inspection system is, we're opening up a dangerous spy for fraud. With the removal of the first paragraph, in which they call on the Union to maintain support for the sector, something we have asked for and supported on repeated occasions, the rest of the resolution is a mixture of inconcretion and autobomb, which must be framed in the campaign to support Mr Feijóo's political aspirations. Instrumentating or attempting to instrumentalize the German Parliament through this initiative for this purpose, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is ugly, it is not honest and it is also supposed to deceive a sector that is not precisely for gaitas. [[Applause]] With what's falling and with what's coming in the next few months, the Greeks and the gales are what we need are really proactive initiatives, which seek to produce real effects on the problems, not "Child Water" initiatives, decaffeinated, autobomb and zero self-critical.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u12	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. I could not know whether you would support this initiative or not support this initiative; it would be a great mistake not to support this initiative at the moment we are living. I think so, I think so, because some have been in this house for some time and always on the left, when you don't have to say, when you don't have to say, criticizes the exposition of reasons for initiatives. And I'm going to tell you what happened to me one day with a Member who is no longer in this House. He was on the left, and I'm not going to say anything about not being in this House. Then I brought an initiative to declare the Beautiful Burella Festival of tourist interest to the Greek, and came the exhibition of motives and the cows came. And he said, "Burela is a municipality that lives from cows, from agriculture and from the sea." And Burela may be the only municipality in the province of Lugo that doesn't have a single cow. That happened in this Parliament. That happened in this Parliament. [[Applause]] And to you today may have been the same, because both Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta and Mr. Pérez López were also based on the explanatory statement. But I challenge you that any of the data I have given here in this gallery you're being denied, because it's official data, it's official data. And Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta said, that it seems that the situation, after listening to you, is normal, and you blamed the war. Well, the economic situation has dragged her since before the war, since before the war, a complicated economic situation, you don't throw her into war... the war logically didn't help her to improve it, it would only be missing. And he said that the President of the Government who was with the partners of the European Union convinced them to put down. Well, that's what anyone who's listening to us is a mistake... I'm not going to say what. Look, countries of the European Union: Belgium, Germany, Portugal, France, all these countries took action, all of them. Spain, do you know what measures you took? Zero. But now you've talked about the increase in contributions and you've talked about the contributions. Look, with the Socialist Party in the Government of Spain, this aspires to be a fiscal hell with the autonomous. You've brought your quotas up to the self-sufficient, your quotas up to the self-sufficient. Spain already has in general the highest rates of contribution in Europe, the highest rates in Europe. Look, let's do a comparison. In Spain, the minimum base rate is EUR 294: in the United Kingdom for setting an example 14 euros, less than 600 euros of income; 58 euros are invoiced above that figure; Germany, an autonomous under EUR 1,700 does not pay anything and, above all, pays EUR 170; Portugal, pays according to the income they had over the year, which can choose between quote a minimum of 25% or 32% that offers greater protection; France has eliminated the autonomous regime and quotas vary between 12% in commercial activities and 18% in liberal activities; and so we could continue a long et cetera. And you talked about the loss of autonomy, but you use the data according to your convenience. They talk about the loss of autonomy in Galicia since 2019, but they don't explain what it was with the Government of the People's Party when we reached the highest number of affiliates, from autonomous to social security. And then the crisis came and the pandemic arrived. And they don't say that in the year 2021 the trend has changed, the data is relevant because it closed the year with a positive balance of more than 1,456 autonomouss. And they didn't explain that, according to the Banco de España, the self-employed lost more income from the pandemic than from an employee, than from a unemployed person and from a retired person. And it's to that collective that the Government of the Socialist Party, that collective that the Government of the Socialist Party is to be paid up, forced to bear an inflation of 7.4% and increased recruitment costs. And on the other hand, I put in place with the governments of the People's Party the flat rate and gave them Europe's greatest protection in rights to self-government, access to retirement, temporary disability, download by maternity and paternity, coverage for unemployment, and so, opposition gentlemen, you said, Mr. Pérez, who did not support the Government of Sánchez, but I remind you that you and your group, the Galician Nationalist Block, helped put it where it is, voting favourably for investment. There are two ways to do politics: one is to practice the Unity of Galicia, with its Government and its President at the front, taking action; and another is to practice the Government that helped put the Nationalist Block of Galicia, the Government of the Socialist Party, which supports communists and the most radical left, which is to hide and not adapt any measure when it burns in the streets in Galicia and Spain. In Galicia and Spain. And you're still in that bubble that probably bubble... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u14	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u15	...don't let them see what's going on in the street. But in the People's Party, as we're the party that we're most like Galicia, that we're more like the Greeks and the Greeks, that we're on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u16	It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u17	... and that we talk to people, that's why we bring these kinds of initiatives to the Galician Parliament because they're from the street, people, our countrymen, the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u18	Silence! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The amendment. The amendment, what do we do with it? No, okay, thanks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Non-legislative proposal by Mr P. Socialist, at the initiative of Mr Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia regarding the call for aid for State housing programmes 2022-2025
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u19	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. P. Popular of Galicia, through its spokesman and at the initiative of Mrs Begoña Freire Vázquez, in the light of Article 161.2 of the Rules of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal for a non-law:Replacement amendment:The text of the resolution should be replaced by the words:"The Parliament of Galician Galician Galician Parliament urges Galician Galician young people to the Council of Galicia to:1o Xo-Once the Central Government completes the necessary procedures and performs the necessary procedures for the purchase of a housing and the corresponding allocation of funds, immediately convene the aid of the State Living Programmes 2020 2020-2022-2025, so that the young and young people of Galician Galician Galician women and young people who reside in the municipalities of less than ten thousand inhabitants of society at least ten thousand inhabitants, or ten thousand inhabitants can benefit from the necessary for the purchase of a residence and rentable % of living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, and the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, and the living, and the living, and the living, the living, the living, and the living, the living, the living, the living, and the living, the living, and the living, the living, and the rights and the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, the living, and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the living, and the rights and the rights, and the living, and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the living, and the rights and the rights and the rights and the living, and the living, and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the living, and the rights and the living, and the living, and the rights, and the rights, and the rights, and the rights, and the all, and the all, and the all, and the all, and the rights, and the rights, and the all, and the all, and the all, and the rights, and the rights, and the rights, and the rights, and the rights of the rights of the all, and the]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Alexandra Fernández Gomez, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Additional amendmentAdd a new point 4 with the following text:"4. Assume as a strategic objective, within the Galician Union's 2021-2025 Living Plan, to curb the unabated increase in the prices of the free housing. To this end, it will promote a specific plan that includes, among other things, the following measures:- Increase substantially the percentage of public housing.-Mobilize the empty housing to the accessible rental.-Set up a self-help program, aimed at complementing and ensuring access to housing for people in emergency and vulnerability situations. Also, establish complementary measures and funds to address the problems of emancipation of young people from Greece.-To establish a rehabilitation aid programme focused on improving housing, accessibility and energy efficiency for those people in a vulnerable or precarious situation.-To develop a study and diagnostic, detailed and territorialized, of the variations in the prices of free housing for rent in Galicia. From this point of view, establish criteria and measures for the containment, control and monitoring of prices."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u20	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you. Well, speaking, as Mr. Balsairo said, of bubbles, of suffocated families, that there are obviously, we have to talk about and ways of governing, right?, that there are two ways, you will know that one of the main problems that families have, not only now, as Mr. Balsairo said, actually derived from the situation and consequences of war, but of long ago, especially in the last decade, one of the main problems that the Greek families have is access to housing, and we're going to talk about ways to make politics and we're actually going to talk about housing. Also in the current context where rental prices continue to rise in recent times, because they also have an impact on the increase in energy prices, of fuels that ultimately yield in all goods of service, of consumption, from clothing, from food. But, as we said, this is a crisis that shows all the indicators that were already present here in Galicia before this current price-enhancing crisis, even before the pandemic crisis. But the truth is, they're now worsening those figures, that intensification, as we said, basically of the rental prices. In the last year, it was a report that was presented early this week, this Monday, by the Galaga Federation of Real Estate Companies, which was rising in the last year of leases, of the rental price around 4 %. What is more, the worst thing is to warn you that this escalation will continue to be around 8 % per year in the second and third quarters of this year. But, as I said, this is a problem that was already there. In the cities of Greece, they have already increased by about 25% of these prices since 2016, and we also know that more than half of the Galicians and the Greeks already had a hard time paying their rent long before all this. The market, therefore, has been strained by the scarce supply of housing, affordable rent and the null impulse of the public housing policies of Mr. Feijóo's Government and the People's Party, since we are talking about ways of ruling. Of course, every crisis that we add up, whether pandemic, or the rise in the various prices, sharpens this crisis which, as we said, was already manifest. In fact, unfortunately, we have warned that there are no more housing policies than extrusion policies, media of large headlines and propaganda, and it is enough and enough to confront the publication in the DOG in recent times. Speaking of great announcements, because Mr. Balsairo also said that the words were not enough, that they had to be serious and responsible and get out of the bubble, remember, for example, one of the last announcements he made in January 2021 by the president of Junta Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who announced that this great social housing plan 2021-2025; he said that more than 1 billion euros would be mobilized among the public, private investment and that he would help directly with this social plan of housing to 70,000 families. And we say "we wish!" because more than a year later if we take the DOG of this 2022: subsidies, EUR 860,000 for social rental bonus, EUR 860,000; to rehabilitate buildings for municipal property rental EUR 630,000; and subsidisation for infra-vivenda EUR 370,000. Those are the billions that announce the president of Galician Union. At the same time, the Government of the State has just approved the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, which is focused primarily on targeting the most vulnerable groups, both with direct aid to purchase and direct aid to rent; which essentially envisages facilitating access to persons at risk of social exclusion. And, speaking of bubbles, you talk to Mrs. Ayuso's counselor who doesn't see the poor, who ensures that there are no people in need, but then we're the ones on the left who are in a bubble. For this state housing plan is intended to make a special impact on those people at risk of vulnerability, also on women victims of violence, and also on aid to the renting of young people. Among other measures, it also covers supply costs, community costs that can reach as much as 100 percent. That's why it's so important, and we bring this initiative in this context, because the important thing is that those funds are already transferred if they are released and accelerated from the Government of Galicia, which is responsible for doing so. Within the framework of these measures also of the State Housing Assistance Plan, there is a specific programme for girls and young people who are facing the demographic challenge, which has to have a very special impact on our community because it's about helping to mobilize housing and access to housing in those municipalities that have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants; that is, in the case of Galicia we're talking about more than 80% of the municipalities. So we think that mobilizing all those funds that are already transferred in this exercise is absolutely priority and fundamental. We are talking about they are committed to this year 2022 19.6 million euros supplemented with 11.7 million euros of the Youth Rental Programme. We are talking about a first aid for the purchase of housing of up to 20% of the total price; a second aid for the monthly rent of up to 600 euros and for a period of five years; an aid that is also — and this is very important — is compatible with the bonus rent of young, so that it could cover up to a maximum of 75% of the rent. We remember here, and we've insisted on the serious problem that we've already said about the current crises, the pandemic, the young gals and the young gales in the last records we have are in the worst emancipation data in the last decade. We've remembered that the last household survey of the National Institute of Statistics places the Galician youth at the queue, among the queues of communities that are queued at emancipation levels since there are records. This before and that the powers, we insist, of housing, in this Government of the Union of Galicia. That is why — we say — it is so urgent to agitate and release these transferred funds, but also in the face of these measures that seek to tackle the problem of housing in the state as a whole and therefore also in Galicia, it is really worrying that we find ourselves with a president of an autonomous government installed in the confrontation — we saw it yesterday — permanently, in spite of — we say — to have these exclusive competences. Now that it's about balancing, when a person leaves his job, responsibility, whether in the public or in the private, as the President of the Galician Union will do in this case, it's always necessary to balance. Well, if we talk about housing public housing policies, these thirteen years are a real failure, we take the indicator we take. The low budget execution, to occupy the last position among the autonomous communities in the construction of protected housing in relation to the built housing, although also knowing that the plaintiff register shows an important necessity, mostly that families, people, people and Greeks demand an affordable housing in rent schemes, we also know that we have only 19% of the already scarce protected housing dedicated to rent. We also have, as much as we like rankings, the worst places among autonomous budget investment communities per resident in public housing. We can re-emphasize the budget reduction in housing access policies in this decade. Even today, housing access programs are still much below, less than half of what was intended in the last Government, in the last exercise of the Bipartisan Government. And all this, all this data, all these indicators reflect those problems that we said before the emancipation of the Galician youth or are patented also in the reports of the state of poverty in Galicia. In the year 2021, the Galician Network against Poverty once again made it clear that the difficulties of access to housing are exacerbating the severe material deficiencies in our community. According to this report, the percentage of people with severe material deficiencies in Galicia is already affecting 253,000 Welsh people, from 3.6% in 2019 to more than 5 in 2020, and with a special impact besides women, in a feminization of poverty in our community. In short, the data that comes near us and that clearly reflects the different indicators show this worrying worsening of the difficulties already faced with access to a decent, appropriate and affordable housing, especially for the most vulnerable population. We insist, before this extremely complicated context, that the Galician Network against Poverty had already warned the Galician Union in the middle of the pandemic that efforts from the Social Policy Council were worth nothing if since budgeting cross-borderly the Greek Government was not concerned with solving the grave housing problem we have in the community. They now have the opportunity, indeed, to speak of ways to govern, which we are responsible for at this difficult time, beyond words and great announcements and grandeur. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] They are with us, and we greet them, the fifth and sixth primary students of the center of Ponte Carreira, in Frades, Coruña. Welcome to Parliament. And now for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Gomez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u22	Thank you, President. Good morning to the boys and girls who accompany us today. I don't know if you've noticed that in recent weeks Vivenda's advisor has been on a tour of the cities of Greece. That tour is to go to get to know the many housing programs that Joina has at this time; and, of course, in every county a press release that always makes sense that the housing policy of Joina works all over the machine. Well, I invite you today to put yourself in the skin of a person who has difficulty paying the house at the end of the month and who opens a newspaper and looks at those new hopeors of the board of Galicia. What would you do? Well, the first thing they would do is go to the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute's website to see all those wonderful programs that we offer to Junta. And the first thing you could click on is the application tab for access to rent. And here we find the social rent bonus program aimed at people in a situation of extreme vulnerability, as refugees. If it were the case that this person is in that situation, he's supposed to be able to ask for it, but it's impossible because he's not actually summoned that help. We also have the social rent bonus program for victims of gender-based violence. If it's a woman who has suffered abuse, who has suffered vicarous violence, which is also macho violence, it's supposed to be able to access this program. But it turns out it's impossible because there's no summons. [[Applause]] We also have the help to rent housing, directed to lower incomes with difficulties to cope with the payment of income, but it cannot be requested because they are not summoned. We've also announced the housing rental aid for young people, they can't be asked because they're not summoned. And finally, we have the empty housing program, guess, you can't ask because they haven't been summoned for years. And here we end all of the programs that the Galician Union has at this time announced to facilitate access to the rent. They all have their ad, they all have their tab announced on the website of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, but none can actually be requested: there are zero help to the rental available right now. The person who is in a complicated situation will say: well, seeing what I can do, if money gives me — and if money allows it — in programs designed to subsidise the purchase of housing. And there we'll find two programs: on the one hand, aid to the purchase of protected housing; and here, go, this is called, that can be requested. And we also have help with the acquisition of housing in historic centers, also in this case the program is active and can be requested. And I think you've come to understand how the politics of Union is oriented. You help you pay the rent, zero; and you help you encourage the purchase, two active ones. Or, what's the same, help for people in a situation of greater vulnerability, greater precariousness, difficulties for saving and indebtedness, none, zero; help for people with certain economic stability that allows them to request a mortgage or even pay the housing in hand because they have savings, there is yes that the Board can help, although in fact in the small letter these aids also have enough propaganda and little budget. In any case, it is clear what is the general criterion of the Board on housing: the more you need, the less help you can get from the Board; and that housing policies are not directed at improving access to housing, but rather at energizing the real estate sector. And someone will wonder how the most urgent housing programs might be all, they're paralysed. So you have a very simple explanation: that the Galician Union has limited its housing activity these years to manage the State Housing Plan programs alone and exclusively without developing its competences. And now that they don't rule the central government, because they're blocking the summons of state programmes. Did it work? There are no active housing policies. The State Government has just approved this new State Housing Plan for the period 2022-2025, which it does is to replace the previous housing plan, which was the Rajoy stage. This new housing plan improves the previous one in some important aspects that obviously don't like the People's Party because it's to increase rental help counts, to foster the public housing park... but it must also be recognized that it incorporates some issues that if you like the People's Party, like homeowners' bonuses for rent housing. So this new State Housing Plan 2022-2025 is a plan that, in general, serves to improve accessibility, is more redistributive in the distribution of funds, but does not mean a paradigm shift compared to the previous one. I am sure that in this debate we are hearing a little bit of the exaggerated positions. Part of the bench understands that this is almost like a revolutionary new plan, and on the Popular bench they're going to put their hands in the head because that state housing plan is a lethal, legally impossible thing. And, in our opinion, we believe that there is a balanced view and that this state plan is progressing, but that it is also continuing in many key aspects with the previous one. So we believe that the boycott that the People's Party is doing has some biased confrontation but it is, above all, fully consistent with its position to any kind of public housing policy comes from wherever it comes from. Because, look, the People's Party not only boycotts state plan housing programs, it's also boycotting European funds programs. Five months ago, the Royal Decree regulating aid from European funds and Junta has not yet issued the call for these programmes. The deadline to justify these aid ends in 15 months, the construction sector, possible beneficiaries are rightly afraid that the European funds will finally remain unimplemented because of the delay in the call for aid. So they boycott the State Housing Plan, boycott the European housing funds, but they also boycott the Union's own programmes, because there are few programmes themselves, but there are some. The two most notable are: an empty housing program, with 4 mobilized housing units; or the Regourbe Program, with 9 rehabilitated buildings, when they promised in campaign to rehabilitate 3,000 homes. If you boycott Join yourself, the results of the programs can always be counted on your fingers. They even boycotted the previous State Housing Plan of the People's Party when it changed the Government. In 2020, in the middle of a pandemic, they did not convene the rental aid that was stipulated in Rajoy's Housing Plan. They also boycotted the special state aid line during the shed for rent payment, had an budget of 2 million euros and left half a million without spending. I mean, they boycott state housing programmes, boycott European housing programmes, boycott the Union's own housing programmes. I mean, they don't like the state plan of the current central government, they don't want housing policies. And this is the question, that the People's Party is camouflaging in a confrontation with the central government, which is actually a general negative on housing policies. And this is very serious, because we're losing resources, Galicia is losing resources and opportunities because of the People's Party boycott to state housing programs, Europeans and Greeks. [[Applause]] And most of all who lose most is the working class, they're already hired, small self-employed, those who are more difficult to reach every day by the end of the month; and the less public housing policy, the more they have to squeeze their pockets to pay for the housing. So from the BNG we demand that they immediately activate the summons of all state housing programs. It's a shame there isn't a single active program right now to help cope with the rental payment in the current situation of the price bubble we have. We believe that this state program is a patch of minimum urgent and necessary for housing policy, but we also need to go further because there are many problems that are not solved with the State Housing Plan programs, which are not defined there, are not addressed; and that it is the Board who has the competences and who has the responsibility to do so. And that's the meaning of our amendment, because we believe that it's not enough for the Union to activate state programs, it has to do its homework, it has to exercise its powers to make a more advanced housing policy. As I say, the state plan has lines of minimum, but it is the own competences that will enable us to address structural and other problems of greater scope. There are many of them that we could list, but we focus our amendment on one that seems urgent and of utmost urgency, which is to immediately curb the price of housing. In the context where we are, in the general context of the unbearable rise in the prices of life, of the impoverishment of the majority of society, the Galician Union must act immediately to curb the prices of housing with a specific plan which, of course, requires to activate different complementary measures, but of course, what is needed is to intervene in the housing market. I'm done. I'm sure the People's Party's Member will now go up here to stage a confrontation with the Central Government, but remember that it's not a confrontation, it's a boycott of the People's Party to the entire housing policy: European funds, state programmes, Union programmes... that's the question: they don't want housing policies. The only difference with the question of the state programme, with the others — the European funds or those of the Union, which you do not do either — is that they hyperventilate only when it comes to matters relating to the state because they are interested in biased confrontation. But actually the only thing behind it is a general waste of public housing policies that in no way resembles that idyllic image that the counselor is committed to spreading these weeks in her particular turn. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Freire Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, if a Socialist Member comes here to ask for explanations of housing policies to an autonomous Government, it is not enough to be curious at the moment. Because you are invading the competences of the autonomous communities; they are circling the Statute of autonomy, lordships, and with the visa and pleasure of the BNG, which then speaks of boycott. Boycott, Mrs Fernández, to the BNG's Autonomy Statute. The draft of the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025 was sent to the Autonomous Communities in June 2021 and no further communications from the Ministry until it was adopted at the Council of Ministers on January 18th. The ministry didn't even respond to the allegations made by the various autonomous communities. It's a chaotic plan with 13 repetitive applications, many of which are overshadowed by those already existing in the autonomous community, which forces some of them to be suppressed so as not to repeat any more actions directed at the same end. As an example of the repetition of programmes aimed at the same end are those aimed at promoting rent, victims of gender-based violence, tenants in a vulnerable situation, renting in small municipalities, among others. In the state plan, rehabilitation is reduced to a mere program of aid for accessibility to housing and housing buildings, which is not understood. The areas of integral rehabilitation that have been so successful in Galicia are outside the housing plan. Despite the proposals of the Galician Council, thus jeopardizing its continuity, which will only be possible through funding through one of the aid lines provided for by European funds. On the other hand, the Housing Plan requires 30% funding from autonomous communities, so the efforts of the Central Government are substantially reduced in relation to previous plans. Finally, a disaster of plan and in addition to a very complex management and some absolutely unapplicable programs. It also includes the so-called rent bonus for young people, which is not included in the Housing Plan, but regulated separately in Royal Decree 42/2022. What comes to mean that this is a timely measure that the Central Government is proposing only for a period of 2 years; that is, a timely incentive only until the convening of the next general elections. The regulation of this lease bond for young people is chaotic, as is the housing plan. All autonomous communities are awaiting clarifications, written clarifications are requested to the ministry from February 24th and March 8th. Requests which were reiterated at the sectoral conference on 9 March and, in the absence of a response, also proposed for a bilateral conference to be held on 25 March. This request for clarification is practically unanimous on the part of all autonomous communities. And for its correct solution, it requires a change in the actual decree that the ministry refuses to carry out whether or not it is going to take place. They are incongruence to the actual decree, for example, which limits the possibility of access to help to some young people who share housing with third parties because of the personal circumstances of those third parties. There are also problems in cases of mobility between autonomous communities. All autonomous communities asked the ministry for a computer platform for the management of this program, since the possible mobility of beneficiaries between autonomous communities is envisaged. In addition, after the expectation generated for months and months by successive announcements, studies reveal that young people who could benefit from this help are merely wasteful. In Galicia, according to the estimates made, it will only reach 1.4 % of the possible beneficiaries. The problems of the Housing Plan and the rental bonus for young people come from the fact that the ministry designs programmes without who will manage them — which are the autonomous communities — without taking into account their specific criteria or needs in each community and territory. As for the specific points in the Socialist Group's proposal — which seems to share the BNG Group — in point 1, they urge the Galician Union to immediately convene the aid of the State Housing Plan programmes. What I don't know is that this initiative is presented for pure demagogy or ignorance; you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to implement the State Housing Plan in Galicia and publish the corresponding summons it is necessary, once the plan is published in the BOE, first, to distribute funds among the autonomous communities. The distribution was authorized by the Council of Ministers on 1 March 2022 and was finally agreed on in the sector in March. Second, the credit transfer resolution. And thirdly, sign the corresponding partnership agreement between the ministry and the autonomous community. Once these requirements have been met, the Council of Galicia may call the aid rather than before. Well, we don't have the credit transfer resolution, nor is the agreement signed between the state and the autonomous community, which has to date the ministry. Therefore, the Union cannot publish calls for aid until the Central Government does its own thing. I repeat, the resolution on the transfer of credit and the corresponding agreement is signed. And it says the actual decree itself, you don't have to have management experience; you say the actual decree itself, you just have to read it before you come here to say things that don't work out. But despite this, the government delegate in Galicia is traveling through the Galician villages by announcing aid that has not yet been convened and whose summons corresponds to the Unity of Galicia and not to the Central Government. It's making propaganda, advertising tour, with incorrect information and not knowing the help the autonomous community is going to convene, since it's not mandatory to call all the lines of the aid provided in the plan, even if they are not adapted, as we said before, to the specificities of our territory and our community. The reality is that the implementation of the plan is currently three months late because of the ministry, because of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, Mrs Otero. The previous plan was already finished and finished in December 2021; the new until the end of January was not approved; the allocation of funds was not decided until March; and, at the moment, it cannot be applied because we do not have that credit transfer resolution, nor the agreement signed. In short, the Government sells a program announcing it before time, not counting the participation of autonomous communities, with manifest errors in the text that regulates it, without software and by lying that the young rental bonus will be almost generalist when the reality is that in Galicia at most it will reach 14 out of every 1,000 possible beneficiaries by limiting the funds allocated. As for the second point of the proposal, you are proposing something that is already being done. Social services already follow up on the needs of Risga perceivers, among whom housing resources are found, and it's the social workers themselves who activate the appropriate services. You should know, Mrs Otero, that community social services have tools that allow them to have real-time up-to-date information on access to all kinds of resources, so they can support access to them to all people who need it. As for the third point, the same thing, they're proposing something that's already being done since the Galician Union; it's been remembered here yesterday, and I'm going to repeat it again, in case they don't understand it, so it's clear. In 2014 Galicia was a pioneering autonomous community in the launch of the electric ticket, followed by the help to avoid supply cuts in 2016. Galicia was once again a autonomous pioneering community in 2017 with the approval of the Energy Efficiency Act and the guarantee of access to electricity, which you voted against, as my partner mentioned yesterday. It is the first community to complement the social bond of the state through the Greek electric bond of 2018. From 2014 to 2021, the overall aid count amounts to 6.35 million euros, with more than 27,000 beneficiary families. The aid this year 2022 is already open and has an initial budget of 1.9 million euros. At the Council of June 17th, the Government of Greece launched a series of package measures, among which we can highlight that of speeding up the launch of the thermal social bond to help households cope with the costs; investment of 13.1 million euros that will reach more than 60,400 vulnerable homes. And it was also approved an extraordinary complement of 100 euros to strengthen the content of the thermal social bond, enabling additional funds of 6.6 million euros and thus bringing the total investment to this measure to 19.7 million euros. I can't help but refer to the amendment to addendum submitted by the BNG. On the one hand, he came up with measures which are already included in the social pact for housing 2021-2025, launched by the Galician Union with the support of all sectors of the housing sector. A roadmap that plans to mobilize 1,100 million euros through half a hundred aids, reaching over 70,000 Greek families, and also contributing to maintaining around 30,000 jobs. Specifically, the Union will enable 30 aid lines this year to buy, rehabilitate or rent housing between those funded by European own funds or the state plan. Aid lines that will allow individuals, municipalities and promoters to be made available more than 150 million euros to act in the residential environment. And it also redoubles the commitment of the Union to the public housing that reflects the momentum at this time of 512 new real estates throughout Galicia and an investment of 72.5 million euros. It follows the BNG also in that amendment with the same theme, with the interventionist measures. Mrs. Fernández, the Union does not put in place interventionist measures, but rather bets on helping the Greeks and the Greeks who want to enter a home. To conclude well, I think they should analyze and study well the initiatives they present because they come here on the one hand to propose something that is inadmissible because one of the parties has not yet complied with the previous task, as in the case of the Central Government in the State Housing Plan, and to propose something that is already being done from the Council of Galicia; hence the amendment of substitution which we tabled from this parliamentary group to the proposal. With regard to some words expressed here by Mrs Fernández, of course Mrs Fernández is more than speaking, because what she said here from this parliamentary headquarters knows it's absolutely true. What he denotes is that he has not managed anything in his life, because he knows that calls happen and that there is no one needed without access to resources... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u26	...that is in progress in Galician Union. He's talking about European funds, no boycott. Ask the state government, that new instructions continue to prevent autonomous communities that can take out the summons. Budget execution. Well, we're still on the same line. See if they suddenly stop lying with absolute bad faith, they know that the budget execution of the IGVS is in the annual accounts of the IGVS published, and that the real data — I have repeated that of the last two years— 2020, 84.15%; 2021, 88.36%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u28	... and in the State Housing Plan — ended, President — 2018-2021, which included an amount of EUR 106,5 million out of the total of these funds, 100% are already committed through the calls published throughout the period of validity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Freire. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u30	Thank you, President. Did you really just say that no person in Galicia needing a home doesn't have access to one? Do you really, who's the house loudspeaker -- and we still applaud -- have just said that in Galicia there's no one who needs a house and doesn't access one? Do you know what the Single Register of applicants for Housing in Galicia is? I ask, I ask because it looks like real, really barbarity. But to get something positive, let's see if we get something clear. Welcome to one statement, which he does not like the housing policies of the Government of the State — as we did not expect any less — because they invade the powers of the Council of Galicia in terms of housing. Welcome. Welcome, that's what we were talking about. Welcome. Look, as then, because the powers are from the Council of Galicia and the state is invading them. Uncover them. It's such a disinterest and so nullity of will in the matter of housing, that they have turned any debate into an enumeration more as we say of advertisements, programs, plans that are not developed. [[Applause]] It was recently requested in this plenary that one of the Commission 2 agreements be concluded, which was to present, as a matter of urgency, the RehaVita Rehabilitation and Rental Plan 2015-2020. They don't present those evaluation reports that measure the real impact of these major programmes and those major plans that the president of the board announces. It has claimed that they report and fail to do so because it is absolutely unbearable that lack of execution and, consequently, that lack of impact of all those announcements. And now they have the opportunity, you said of the responsibility of all administrations; we accept and announce the amendment of the group of the BNG because we obviously think that both administrations, and more at this time, but in terms of housing, as we said, this crisis was there before, have to fulfil and speed up the part that corresponds to them. What you don't understand, and you were talking about execution, because you're presenting those evaluation reports. It is not understood that the Government of the Union, chaired by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, is left in a crisis context without spending 2 out of every 3 euros of the funds for access to housing. Funds that have been reduced in recent years, which are already rockets in recent years. For the period 2010-2020, the Union has failed to implement housing and housing access programmes EUR 400 million. And you were talking about a young Welsh youth, and we said a youth who is trapped in a real loop of instability, which presents worse data if we compare or observe other autonomous communities. They're almost 320,000 young Greek girls between the ages of 15 and 34 who are forced to live with their family. Almost 67% of the population in that age group. We defend our own powers that you said invades the state. And I spoke and invited her to observe what the Single Register of Life-Requests says, which is absolutely collapsed in recent years. Look, in the city of Vigo, for example, we are at the most worrying levels of the last decade, with more than 5,600 registered people — it must be by vice — in that register, demanding an affordable rent. Over 70% of these people — almost 6,000 — are demanding and have been registered for years demanding an official public promotion housing lease. But you say that no person or family in Galicia needs a home has access to it. And now, in fact, we're watching that tour of Vivenda's advisor and the president of Galicia's board also to announce thousands of homes in Vigo. Do you know what President Alberto Núñez Feijóo's balance is after 13 years in public housing protected in Vigo if we make the average? Five a year, with almost 6,000 people in that Single Living Record. So they don't teach lessons, they assume these skills that they so much want to take care of in practice, being effective; 2 out of every 3 euros — we insist — of the Galician funds that were reserved in 2020 for housing policies were not destined. In a year in which the pandemic has opened a period of uncertainty and in the closure of accounts of the past exercise 64% of the budget in this chapter — which we insist on, in these years, is diminished — it remains unspent. It was also not used to 1 out of 3 euros budgeted for rehabilitation. Look, they faced the pandemic crisis, an unprecedented crisis, a confrontation policy that now gives -- as we said -- its fruit in that national campaign to be the leader of the National People's Party, the confrontation on the right gives fruit. Take advantage of this crisis so that we do not maintain the same attitude and convert -- as we said, what we are living, and so long as we are filled with everyone and all our mouths and we have to be responsible for that situation that we were talking about at the first initiative of drowned families -- in clear policies, running budgets, and not forgetting that the problem of access to housing, as much as you say, is one of the main problems we have in our aggravated community in the last decade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals After the debate on non-legislative proposals has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, initiative by Ms Olalla Rodil. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members on the adoption by the Government of the measures necessary to regulate the Basic Card and set it up as an emergency aid that serves as a bridge to other social benefits. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u32	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Don Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Don Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the performances that must be carried out by the Government of Galicia to assume the services of its competence, currently provided by the local authorities, concerning professional conservatories of music. No amendments were tabled. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u33	We voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Dona Noa Presas. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Central Government for regulation by law of the right to access to energy. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. We vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u34	We voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, initiative by Mr José Manuel Balsairo. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Union of Galicia in order to maintain economic support measures directed at self-employed persons. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. Consequently, the non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u35	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da Noelia Otero. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Fr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Ms. Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the call for aid to the State housing programmes 2022-2025. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted and the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. That proposal is therefore rejected, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u36	After the vote, we continue with the next item. In this case, interpelerations. Question of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the increase in prices and their impact on the economy and on homes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u37	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Noa Presas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Welcome back to this House, Mr. Corgos. You know, or I want to think that you're conscious or at least more aware of what Mr. Feijóo has shown yesterday, that Galicia now lives a limited situation because of the consequences it has on society and our economy this big shot that we're seeing of prices, a shot inflation, the most intense in the last thirty years, that, although the different organisms and economic forecasts have come to say that it was going to be something temporary, we're seeing how it seems to have no end. And without being the only reason that the intensification of the war in Ukraine will of course also influence, and therefore the forecast is that this month we are on when we have the data we see how that inflation rises even more intensely. And, of course, this situation conditions the whole of the Greek economy, a Greek economy, which must be said to be wounded by the consequences of the pandemic, also by the weaknesses of an economic and productive model which had not yet recovered from the effects of the 2008 financial crisis and which had dragged a very deep industrial crisis before the pandemic, and also conditioned by the growing social inequality. So what we are living with intensity these days is a first-order social and economic problem and that is why we ask the Government again about this issue. And look, Mr. Corgos, just like when there was a planetary pandemic, they didn't listen to the Galician Nationalist Block blaming the People's Party, not as you did in the financial crisis, which seems to be the fault of the BNG, because today we're not going to blame, as the president of the Union, the Government of the People's Party for the situation we are living, which logically has an international character, not only Greek. Now, what is clear is that what you're going to hear from us from this parliamentary group are two issues that do make this a more intense problem in Galicia and which, although not only corresponds to the Union, has a fundamental responsibility. First, because it has to be said loud and clear that this is a problem that occurs with greater intensity in this country than in the state as a whole; and secondly, because of course you have room for action and are not doing so, and therefore we demand that they make political decisions to enforce this country. Because what you can't afford, Mr. Corgos, is that you're still installed in the paralysis, because basically what we're looking at is that the Greek Government is... you raise your eyebrows, but you're basically making the Tertullian Government, because they're dedicated to commenting on reality and sharing blame for other agents instead of acting. [[Applause]] And what this country needs right now is neither bullies nor a People's Party more busy with the survival of its own party than with the survival of those who are going through the worst in this country. So today basically what we want with this interpellation is that you do what the president of the board didn't do yesterday, that I do as he will answer Galicia in a context that certainly undervalued in his budget forecasts, because already in the budget debate we warned that you were simply reporting the risks that represented the rise in energy prices or the bottle collars of the industry, but that they were not anticipating or predicting scenarios that were going to get complicated. In any case, Mr. Corgos, we insist, there are two clear questions. The first one is that this is a more intense problem in Galicia. First, because there's a Greek differential: inflation rises more in Galicia than in the state as a whole. Yesterday, Mr. President of the Union, as he must already be framed at least mentally in Madrid, he was talking about inflation of 7.6%, but this country had inflation in the last data of 8%, more tenths than the whole state. And that's translated into real life because what it means is that the impoverishment in Galicia is going faster, because apart from that, it's not something that happens only in the February data, you know perfectly just like me that, if we go to the data over the past few months, both seeing monthly evolution and annual evolution, there's a yellow differential that indicates that inflation affects us more intensely and that we have to add to what the mattress society is facing that reality; it's true that we have an average of EUR 600 lower wages than in the state as a whole, we have the lowest pensions in the state set; and that's what it means is that the strongest blow and the mattress with which we have to resist the Galicians and the Greeks is thinner. So this is a problem. Secondly, we say that this situation affects Galicia more also because of our economic structure, by the weight of the electro-intensive sector, by the weight of the marine fisheries sector, by the weight of the agri-business sector, which are very much affected at the moment by the increase in production costs and by the impact that will also have the fall in consumption of homes and leisure; and also a high condition in our economy, the high dependence on trade by sea and road, we are seeing it these days with the crisis triggered by the strike of transport; or we can also talk about the territorial dispersion combined with the absence of decent and sufficient public transport. Because, of course, when you think from Madrid's optics, it's very easy to replace the private vehicle to transport you to work or study, for example, by means of the subway or surroundings. But, of course, in this country, the reality is that today most of the Welsh and Welsh people cannot replace their private vehicle for the most basic displacements; and therefore the affection for the fuel crisis is even more intense. So, Mr. Corgos, we have more intense inflation in Galicia, and we have more intense affections for what our economy is and for the serious social inequality that we had before. And in this context you have to ask yourself, what does the Galician Board do besides comment on reality? For you could try to move forward, you didn't; you could try to respond urgently, you're not doing so; or you could dialogue, collaborate, listen to someone, and you're not. And to prove the vote that you yourself have been present even if you are not a Member ten minutes ago, where is the People's Party? What does it do? No, to say not to supplement the aid to energy poverty, to say not to extend it to the basic card and to say no to the constructive proposals made since the opposition to address the emergencies of this price crisis. And until the moment basically what they did was to announce again and again a plan of shock, so said, shock plan, for apparently sounds hopeful, sounds like something which is supposed to be a government when it announces a plan of shock because I concretely something, but basically this is a bluff that doesn't even reach Mr. Corgos for two questions. First, it is reduced to the press notes of the Union and, second, it is not accompanied by measures in the Official Journal of Galicia. In any case, if we go a little deeper, what do we see? In the fiscal field, given that it is one of the most direct ones we could have, even though we do not have monetary policy competences, you are no longer proposing no urgency tax issues at this time to alleviate the situation in the most vulnerable sectors, is that in the last budget law they have adopted a new retroactive reform in the IRPF. So this price crisis in which for example the candy doubled its count in the last year because a Greek home where the person enters about 20,000 euros a year will have a twelve-euro savings that will not reach him or cover that candy. On the contrary, a senior executive of an electrician would have a savings of more than 500 euros. And with that fiscal policy that you don't want to play, because, of course, it's not a good measure to deal with this crisis. And returning to that shock plan, basically what they did was two proposals or balloon probes. On the one hand, they talk like this in a generic way about helping the primary sector, and when it comes up a little bit, when it goes down a bit, basically what it's doing is offering liquidity and lending; that we don't say that we don't have to incorporate these measures, but of course we have to activate other emergency measures, that's what the sector is demanding. And look, two headlines today: "The fleet alerts: no direct aids exist," "Agriculturers and Limitia livestock ask for urgent aid by triple production costs." Mr. Corgos, of course, if this is the situation, if our livestock, if our seamen don't know how the month will end, of course, what they're not thinking of is making investments in the medium and long term, what they need is direct help, and we ask them where the direct aid is. Are you going to do the same for the self-employed and the hostess in the first part of the pandemic when they waited eight months to be one of the last communities to arbitrate direct aid? We asked him not to. [[Applause]] Because of course the primary sector can't wait in our country for eight months and it's not the only one. So let's appeal to the German Government not to make the same mistakes. And, secondly, basically within this so-called great shock plan that you have approved, and which, I insist, has not yet gone out in the Official Journal of Galicia, the other great measure was a package of promises, in the energy field, which on the one hand are a lot of aids, which we know in addition to reorganizing what already exists, which are mostly finalist funds of the State and the European Union for investments in energy efficiency; of course, because energy efficiency in the medium term is something important to support price crises, but it will share with me that if an autonomous, autonomous, small company does not know how it will pay the February bill, March or April, because it is not going to improve its equipment and it needs more immediate and more direct support. Also people who can't pay their household bill. So, that you who have the economic resources of the thermal social bond since December, who haven't edited those aids yet in the Official Journal of Galicia, because what you're announcing to increase them to only 6 million euros is absolutely insufficient and, I insist, they've just voted against improving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u40	... that direct resource. So this is the context -- and this is over -- an unprecedented crisis and an paralysis in the Government, too, that there are precedents, but from this moment on because it rains on wet and that's worrisome. So today we basically asked him what he's going to do to fight the consequences of this big, price-shooting crime? Because, Mr. Corgos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u42	...you rule a country, therefore, stop making Tertullians and take measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u44	...that they make use of this country and help us resist this situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Corgos López-Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me -- I was wondering about the proposal, then the development was quite different -- by the assessment of the Greek Government on the impact of the price increase and what I was doing the Government of Galicia. The first thing I'd like to point out is that your inquiry is registered on February 15th. Since then, the situation has changed dramatically for the Russian invasion of Ukraine, so my answer meets the current circumstances, as it cannot be otherwise, and not to those which referred to in its interpellation. However, I welcome the fact that it is interesting that in this initiative the Nationalist Block Galego disagrees with the President of the Government of Spain regarding the origin of this marked increase in prices, which has attributed over the past few weeks this increase in price rises to the Russian invasion that began four weeks ago. Indeed, since the end of January, the International Monetary Fund had indicated that the prospects for growth in the major world economies were getting cold. And they were cooling off for four reasons: by rising prices, by disturbances in supply chains, by historical debt levels of the world's major economies, and by persistent uncertainty. Galicia was no exception to this general framework, the follow-up to the economy that continually takes place at Union level showed that recovery follows, but that it faces multiple difficulties at the beginning of the third year of the pandemic. This new set was subject to a pronounced uncertainty and usually the risks were downwards. What do I mean when I say they lean down? For the future markets of the main raw materials and energy indicated prices for the end of the year below those in the month of January. This advised that any revision of the macroeconomic framework should be postponed to the spring prospects of the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. The risks that were the subject of follow-up and that affected the economic growth of prices were the possible existence of new variants of the copper virus and low vaccination rates in developing countries; the strategy of zero cases covered in China, which could exacerbate disorders of the world supply; and the problems and crisis in the real estate sector of the Asian giant and its transfer to the general economy; a surprising rise in inflation in the United States that could increase the resilience of monetary policy of the fiscal reserve and its contagion through the types of interest to the European economy; and the exacerbation of the geopolitical tensions and social disturbances that we were living even in some countries around us. This latter risk becomes the trigger of a war and humanitarian conflict on February 23rd and a new supply shock for the impact of the container on the energy and raw materials markets in general. This shock again exacerbates inflationary tensions and affects economic recovery. Europe is one of the regions most exposed to this inflation under the International Monetary Fund, and it is no longer worth the traditional revenue advocated by the European Commission on the basis of market price correction and surgical support measures for specific sectors. He made this contextualization, he wanted to highlight the concern of the Greek Government for the evolution of prices, which is not now; since the middle of last year we have seen a continuous growth of them, aggravated to levels that are inescapable over the last few weeks. That is why we have taken action and, as you well said, we have made it manifest in the debate on budgets, and we have also taken steps to improve the income available to families. And we just approved a shock plan, even if you don't like it: first we think, then we plan and then we run the measures — that's the normal order of running when you think things right. So one of the priorities in developing budgets for this year's autumn was to design accounts that helped families and businesses mitigate the effects of this price rise. In the accounts in force, not only have we kept all the tax reductions already approved in previous years, but we have expanded them. And we also kept all the tax benefits that you in part wanted to withdraw from your amendments. In addition, from the Government of Galicia we remain committed to the agile payment to our suppliers, reaching a 15-day average payment level in year 21, compared to the 26 days of the rest of the autonomous communities; which seeks liquidity to the multiple companies with which the Union works in Galicia. We are also aware that one of the main concerns and priorities of the Greeks is housing—as has just been said a few moments ago—and that the young people are one of the most difficult groups to access one, whether in rent or in property. We have pushed the Social Pact into Vivenda until 2025, and in recent years we have supported more than 2,500 young people with help in renting and acquiring housing. And in addition, since the end of 2021, we have activated lines of aid aimed at energy saving for pemes, industries and families; in total, more than 23 million euros. This bet will be accelerated in the new ERDF fund programming period, whose programming will be completed this month. Along with the strategic bet to increase the weight of renewables and the energy self-sufficiency of Galicia in the mix of consumption and production of the autonomous community. And we have to keep going, because the situation requires it. As I said, traditional recipes are no longer worth a shock of unviewed proportions since the last oil crisis of the last century and which overlaps with the pandemic legacy. What are the consequences? Well, as you know, energy prices are growing out of control and showing high volatility in the uncertain context of Ukrainian invasion, which affects the normal functioning of the electricity market and the competitiveness of our companies. In addition, this circumstance makes it difficult in the social environment to realize the sources of vulnerability and the scope of the needed help. That's why we need global help, such as those that are meant to reverse the increase in public collection generated by the highest energy price. We need an immediate reaction from the Government of Spain, a shock plan is urgent that complements our measures and reduces the energy bill through the tax and compensatory channels. At the telematics meeting that we had on Monday the second and second vice-president and I with the two vice-presidents of the Government and with the Minister of Fairy, in response to the zero proposals of the Central Administration, we proposed the following needs and priorities for action. The need to seek out a dialogue and quickly the strike of transport and ensure safe corridors for urgent cases. Temporarily act on taxation, reverting the uptake rate by increasing energy, and also combining with consumer subsidies and even acting on prices to adjust the cost of fuel and gas. Rationalize the price of energy by rethinking the training mechanism of it, turning off the pull gas or based it on future markets. To carry out an analysis of the impact of war on the supply of certain inputs of raw materials originating in Russia and Ukraine, to seek alternatives to our productive sectors and, in particular, to the primary. Flexibility of the CAP economic support measures necessary for agricultural producers to match the losses generated this year. Prorogate the state aid flexibility regime that ends next June. And allow us to reorient actions Next Generation EU towards the reinforcement of energy alternatives and support for companies. The possibility of extending the deadlines for implementing these same funds given the adjustment of their deadlines. Let the remainder of Royal Decree 5/2021 be used in support of the sectors most affected by the effects of the invasion. And finally, all this in a medium-term sustainable financial framework that must also have medium-term expenditure control and maintain deficits on a stable path so that this crisis does not follow a public debt. And to do this, try to continue to apply income and price policies that try to avoid second round effects and inflationist spirals. While we make these requests to the Central Government, Junta also does its duties. Within our competences because people and sectors with more problems can no longer wait, as you indicated. Last week we approved at the board of directors a battery of measures with the aim of balancing the consequences of rising prices and reaching liquidity; not all of them have to appear at the CEO, Mrs. Presas, many of them can be mobilized without any rule that requires their publication. With important measures, such as agitating the launch of the thermal social bonus, a measure that will reach 66,000 homes and complements 100 euros to each family. Secondly, to inject liquidity into the livestock sector through the financing of the circulator, especially the 200 million CAP, as well as the financing of interest rates. And ask the Banco de España to authorize financial institutions to grant a one-year moratorium on the payment of long-term loan amortisations. Eliminate the payment of fees in Galician ports during the crisis. And finally, we approved an extraordinary injection for all public transport to road travellers in front of the fuel elevator. As the president put forward yesterday, Your Honor, these will be complemented by a new package of measures at the forthcoming Council of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Corgos. In the replica round, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Corgos, you have spoken of thinking, planning and executing. As a roadmap, I'll buy it. The problem is, you're not applying it; the problem is, you're not applying it today, but you haven't applied it before, either. Because, of course, we are at an exceptional moment from an international point of view, there are issues that cannot be foreseen. But, look, this country also has structural problems that you've done or haven't done in the last 13 years. Because, look, I'm going to put two examples. [[Applause]] There are things that cannot be expected, of course, because a pandemic of the dimension of what we live with the covid-19 could not foresee it with a magic ball no Government, but if one could foresee a strong public health system; if one could foresee, for example, the ability to develop basic science and make basic products. [[Applause]] That kind of thing countries can plan, and you weren't in touch with the circumstances. The dependence on fossil fuels, for example, is something you've known for decades, where Galicia could be working more than it is. Or depending on our agricultural sector of foreign inputs, this is something that has been debated in this country many times, even to the thread of problems that have been dry in other years and which unfortunately, given that we are in the eighth driest winter since there are records, because we can certainly live again in this country. And there's no strategy in the Union so that, for example, you can increase the production of these basic inputs in this country and you don't depend on third countries. Or even here comes a spokesperson from the People's Party and ridicules that we are asking for anticipation and attempting public purchasing capacity from the throne, as was done in the crisis of the pandemic of the Covid-19 or in the crisis of the previous drought with other examples. [[Applause]] Then, of course, these mud dusts. And the same with regard to the energy system. Welcome to the People's Party to discover that the system that he himself created is privileged to be paid with the most expensive technology. But those issues that didn't want to be addressed in time, and they would make our economy more resistant in volatile contexts, because in a globalized context, that's what a responsible country has to do. But the point is, brought today, you're not having that ability to think, plan and execute what you claim. Because, basically, the capacity it has in the immediate — not immediately, in the emergencies — in something that can be done immediately are tax-based measures — which are not progressing along that path — or direct aid measures, which are not doing either. And above all, of course, you come here to talk about the need to control the public deficit, and already the sale before the wound. In fact, we have to take action on how public resources are used, but it is also in a state where the bank has been rescued, we know now that with more than 100 billion euros, we are saving ourselves from negotiating and pushing directly from the administration of Greece to the most damaging sectors that, I insist, do not end in the whole month of March; for, of course, it is not our model; because if we could rescue sectors like the bank, if we are also saving ourselves undercover one day after another, we must also rescue the people of this country. [[Applause]] And you have a margin of action within your powers. Many of the claims you're making to the central government we can share; some have been doing them for a long time, like the issue of electric EVV. Because it is increasing the collection of the state and it has the ability to do so, and by some pure philosophy: if electricity is a basic good, because it has to have a chord recording. But, in any case, we today what we ask of you is a realization of what measures drives Galician Union. Well, now if you want to convince me that the thermal social bonus doesn't have to get it out of the CEO, you'll see; but the question is that these money isn't in the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks that need it right now. And the question is that more resources are needed because not all the people who are suffering from severe material shortages in this country. So, if the state model fails and doesn't cover all the people who need that resource, because what you have to do, if you want to squeeze self-government, is to find solutions to get it all over the world. In any case, we insist, there are a lot of issues that you should be able to do since June with political will. Yesterday the spokeswoman of the Galego Nationalist Block handed Mr. Feijóo a file, since he leaves for Madrid to leave him in his office, and we ask him to study it. [[Applause]] In any case, we insist on five lines: direct aid to the primary sector; tax measures to alleviate lower income; increase of the main social benefits to compensate for the IPC — such as aid for masculine violence, energy poverty or vital minimum income — compatible with risk, i.e. compensation for the content that you steal from risk and finally solve that problem; we also advocate that non-contributory pensions are increased by 100 euros; and lowered by the highways and the German competition transport titles to help supplementally as well as the crisis of fossil fuels impact people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u50	In short, Mr. Corgos, today you have voted against extending aid to energy poverty and expanding the basic card. Let's hope they correct that trend right away because, of course, you have the ability to respond and help a lot of people right away...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u52	...and if they're not doing it to limit themselves to criticism of the central government, who will pay the consequences will be the country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u54	...and it'll be demolition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Corgos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u56	Mrs Presas, I am afraid that the President will pass on his file to me with measures and will be assessed with the utmost interest. And if any of them can help to overcome this situation, we will encourage it by recognizing that they can also make useful proposals, as we would like you to also recognize that sometimes the Government of the Union — only sometimes — also makes a useful proposal. With regard to this, with the policy of the last 13 years, I wanted to refer to the objectives of the last Strategic Plan of Galicia, the objectives that refer to energy supply, which have been met and were agreed upon, or at least approved without the opposition of its group, as regards the emission of greenhouse gases and gross final energy consumption. So now find the blame for the disastrous energetic set-up that we are living in the inaction of the Greek Government when we meet the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 35%, against 2005, when we lower it by 39%, and increasing the gross final consumption of renewable energy by 30%, when we reach 38%, because I think that the way or, at least, long-term policies and strategies were well defined and achieved. I remind you that our concern about the price rise that has continued since the middle of last year has been permanent, and has been aggravated in the last month by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. And not only do we worry, but the Greek Government did not wait for this war situation to take the measures it could and should take within the meaning of its competence. We also urge the Central Government to take its own, although in this case unfortunately, as I have related before, we are still waiting for them to come true. I remind you that, at last Monday's meeting, of the second vice president and myself with the vice presidents of the Government and the Minister of Fairy, no news has been made. From Galicia we proposed a battery of immediate measures complementing the taken by the Union itself. It is urgent that a reduction in fuel taxation should be applied, as agreed at the recent Conference of Presidents. Why have other countries already announced help to deal with inflation and the Government of Spain continues to say that it will not do so until the next day 29 or 30?, as Mr. Álvarez said yesterday. The French know they'll have a grant of 15 cents per litre of fuel because their government announced it. The Belgians already know that they will have a fund of €1.3 billion for energy aid because their government has announced it. And the scope of the measures that the Galician Union can take is not comparable to what is needed for these measures in terms of the price of energy and fuel. And here the Spaniards are still waiting for Mr. Sánchez's government, his partner, to take action that says it will not be done until next March 29. The glovers, the sea sector, and the carriers as well as well indicated can't wait any longer. While these sectors are at the limit because they don't mind working on losses, consumers see the price of basic products rising every day and emptying the linears of stores. Your Honor, in this German Government we are acting and exercising our powers. We are taking measures that we consider necessary in order to alleviate the situation of families and businesses. I reiterate to you, we will speed up and soon pay the thermal social bonus to help households cope with heating costs, which complements with an additional EUR 100 bonus to compensate for this price intensification in recent months. We have approved this extraordinary addition. Secondly, last week we also decided to inject liquidity into the gain sector through the financing of the mover through leases, subsidising interest rates, advancing the EUR 200 million of the CAP and also requesting the Banco de España to authorize financial entities to grant a one-year moratorium on the payment of loan amortisations. And the Middle Rural Councilman and I continue to work on other relief measures. For the sea sector, we've crafted a subsidy to compensate professionals for the payment of two months' harbour fees, which may be extended if the price escalating situation persists. And we approved an extraordinary section for all public passenger transport. Together with the measures already put forward by yesterday's president of asset lines, new loans, debt flexibility mechanisms, good energy peme, good tourism and reinforcement of aid for the digitisation and efficiency of the tourism sector, and the impulse of electric self-consumption and renewables. It would be good if the BNG supported the Galician Union in its request for demands from the Government of Spain to complement our proposals, to provide assurances to the productive sectors. And it would also be good for the Central Government to stop looking for enemies in the affected sectors and start looking for solutions, because its inaction makes the economic recovery of business tissue more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u57	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Maria do Carme González Iglesias and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the promotion of component factories for automotive
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u58	Mrs González Iglesias has the floor to defend the interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u59	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you. The transition from the combustion car to the electric car is a reality that is already forcing the worldwide automotive industry to adapt. Some countries are moving forward to the negative consequences that this transition will trigger by implementing policies and measures that prevent loss of productive capacity and loss of jobs. The European Union itself, aware of this reality, is acting to curb the loss of competitiveness. And, in this uncertainty that goes through the automotive sector worldwide, in Galicia we have a German Government which, having full competence in industry, remains unsatisfied. Stellantis, the industry's parent company in the Vigo area, has been in continuous stops in production for lack of microchips, which is causing its staff and that of auxiliary companies to suffer from unsustainable work instability, permanent pending of the telephone, with changes in their continuous working hours, which affects their personal and family life, especially with regard to conciliation, something that owes to this wonderful labour reform supported by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] The European Union has already announced a plan with EUR 43,000 million to manufacture components with the aim of anticipating the shortage of semiconductors in the future and thus avoiding the current dependence of Europe on Asian countries, where currently 80% of the production of these components is concentrated worldwide. The Commissioner for Internal Market of the European Union has defined this initiative as an economic and geopolitical priority. We hope that the Galician Union is already working to accommodate this plan to ensure that some of these mega-factories are implanted in the Vigo area. Because, Mr. Count, if you're not doing it, we'll miss a train that won't pass again, a train that will pass from a long distance and that will catch somewhere else, very possibly in northern Portugal. The Portuguese Government's business attraction policies to settle in the north of the country have already translated into more than 7,000 new jobs. And they've already announced more funds with measures focused on attracting investment and receiving new companies in order to reinforce their position in the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal. A government, the Portuguese, which defends their country's employment and economy, just what the German government doesn't do. [[Applause]] The only policy practiced by the People's Party in the Greek Government is to throw balloons out, seek guilty and launch advertisements that never come true. Look, I've got a little historical summary here, eh! We're not going to talk about the current, because it's known, what we call the electric car bluff: July 15, 2010. The Galician Union is preparing an electric mobility plan. 29 March 2010. Together, Citroën, Fenosa and Blue Mobility went to power the electric vehicle. January 10, 2012. Galicia bets on the electric car with a rental plan. Ourense will host an electric vehicle factory that will create a thousand jobs. The board announces that it will regulate the electrogas by decree. I could go on, but I'm going to spend my time. Basically ads, ads and more ads. Do you know how these ads ended?: The unknown result of the joint's grants to the electric car. The galesa beam signature of blue Mobility electrogas locks for delay on the electric vehicle. Blue Mobility in competition after receiving 564,000 euros. The failure of the electric car buried in Galicia 40 million aids. Do you know why this is? Because there's no plan for the automobile. Improvisation, announcements and announcements. I told him before the Portuguese Government was working how to do it. And do you know the difference between the German Government and the Portuguese Government? Specifically — because you are going to tell me that this is the responsibility of the State — specifically of the municipal chambers of Chaves, Melgaço and Vila Real. Let the Portuguese administrations work hand in hand instead of dealing with the central government, as you and President Feijóo do. And they also have a priority in job creation, while the Government of Greece prioritizes the benefits of large companies. That's why they don't have a plan for their own automotive industry, and they're just going to go along, be next door and fund the sector, as you usually say. Mr. Conde, stop following Stellantis' leadership orders, abandon that role of submission that they keep before Stellantis and get to work to spread measures that strengthen the automotive sector; they have full competence in industry, exerzanes. They have just published in the BOE the bases to enter the PERT of the electric vehicle and connected. You have changed, it is no longer an exclusive condition for non-combatant production, it is now enough to assemble them. Almost what Citroën does on his Vigo plant. And the question now is: Is the Government of Greece still betting on the deployment of a battery factory in the Vigo area? Stellantis' position is unclear. Well, or yes, uh! Because he has already announced the installation of three battery factories in Europe, specifically in France, Germany and Italy, and 2 in North America, but he says nothing about Vigo. And, on the other hand, the project that Stellantis announces, along with CTAG and the rest of the automotive industry for this PERTE, is a joint candidacy with Madrid and Zaragoza, where Stellantis has production centers. The doubt is that part of this PERTE will stay in Galicia, which impact on employment will have and how it will focus the future of the sector in the area of Vigo. The 2021 sector balance, which you've met a couple days ago, is, and I can assure you that I've looked for the definition and I've just been with a very worrying one. In a year in which Stellantis stopped production more than 60 days, in which she ordered the house to apply the ERTE more than 15,000 workers, they reach a record billing, the biggest in its history: 11.200 million euros, a 7.3 higher than in 2020. Besides, 495,000 units were manufactured, the third largest production of the 60 years of Vigo factory. So far everything's fine, perfect. The problem comes when this data is contrasted with the number of people employed in the 2021 sector because, in view of the increase in production and invoicing, the number of people hired has been reduced to 6.1%: 1,530 people less. The reduction in jobs in transition to the electric car is a real threat, a threat from which all experts and all countries are alerting. For this reason, it is necessary to join the sector with more players that guarantee the competitiveness of the sector and produce for other brands. You have to break up with that excessive current dependence on a single large manufacturer. I'd say my grandmother that we can't keep putting all the eggs in the same basket, Mr. Count; we have to distribute them to ensure that in case I break a basket the other eggs are left. At the BNG we understand that this is not a good time for the People's Party. President Feijóo is preparing the move to Madrid, a city we know is the sum of freedom, and not like La Coruña, Santiago, Vigo, that we live in a true dictatorship... and they're also looking for a tenant for Monte Pio. [[Applause]] I'm going to tell you one thing, you can get rid of the Vivenda Register of Demands, which, as my companion has already said, there are enough people to live in Mount Pio and who are looking for a place to live. We're very upset about them, but the future of the country doesn't wait. We can't wait for a new president to appear or be present full-time in the country, and they have to act. The Galician Union has full competence in industry, they have to exercise it. Stop looking for culprits and bring a roadmap to the automotive sector that guarantees the future and employment in Vigo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u60	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. We greet the students who have just entered, the sixth primary students from the multilingual centre of San Benito de Lérez, in Lérez, Pontevedra. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] And also the people who accompany us today in the rostrum. And now, to answer the question, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice-president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the students who accompany us and who can have the opportunity in this case to come to a debate on a sector as important to the Italian production fabric as the automotive sector. The truth is, Mrs. González, it would be very difficult to understand the speech of the Galician Nationalist Block if we didn't know you were continually disregarding the private initiative. The daily effort of hundreds of thousands of industries, businesses and self-employed people to try to keep activity and jobs on an adverse stage. It is true that at present everyone's concern is how to deal with energy prices never seen and also how to get those raw materials that are vital to maintaining industrial activity, both in the industry and in the primary sector. And, of course, the urgency that the Government immediately unlocks the stopping of transport that is drowning all the productive tissue, also the automotive sector. Finally, we must be firm and strong in the defence of the democracy of the freedoms we share in the European Union, and in that context Galicia will soon remain with its industry and its workers, so it is certainly time, Mrs González, that you also decide whether you want to be with Galicia or whether you want to stand with the defenceless. [[Applause]] Because the truth is, Your Honor, is that until now the Nationalist Block of Wales remains in a sterile ideology, useless for the productive sectors, which makes you anticipate your planned and controlled model of economy from the public domain, probably following references in Cuba, Venezuela or Russia itself. That's the priority of your party, which you permanently bring to this House, rather than defending the feeling of the interests of most of the Greeks and the Greeks, who want to be next to the Ukrainian people and who also want the tax to be lowered immediately so as to be able to alleviate the greatest possible inflation of the last 33 years. In this context I must insist on another reality that the Galego Nationalist Block systematically refuses to admit, the reality of the support that we have been moving to the automotive industry since Galicia. Both the Stellantis factory in Vigo and the German automotive industry in general formed by over 200 companies, are all, Mrs. González, a whole example, both nationally and internationally, thanks to her bet on excellence, digitization, innovation and sustainability and her talent, even though you permanently want to transfer an opposite image. You're talking about the development of the electric car. You should know that you should move to this Parliament that the Stellantis factory in Vigo already manufactures seven electric models thanks also to the support of the Galician Union. Surely you should review the strategic plan of the automotive sector that has been developing since 2004, precisely to work from the perspective of public-private collaboration, the cluster supported by the Galician Union precisely to boost that competitiveness, that productivity and to increase that added value and therefore give the responses from the Administration to what the sector needs. [[Applause]] You should know, Mrs González, that the fourth strategic plan is being developed so that the sector can anticipate new mobility scenarios and transform the sector into new challenges and opportunities. Mrs. González, Galicia is proud of the German automotive sector. Galicia is proud that the first autonomous car that travelled the Spanish roads left Vigo in 2014 in a joint program with the Galician Union. Galicia is also proud that the Balados plant in Stellantis already manufactures Peugeot e-2008 and a wide range of electric vans, also thanks to the support of the Galician Union. A bet that, as you know, is not the sector alone and of course the role of the Galician Union, you should recognize, because it was so, you recognize the sector itself, that the fact that Stellantis Vigo achieved the new models was also thanks to the support of the Galician Union. Since the Administration, Mrs González, we have invested more than 200 million euros to make the drive industry stand in the vanguard, the vanguard of new manufacturing processes, design, product validation development and systems for the future vehicle; and we are working together the sector and the Galician board in the connected car, autonomous green and electric car. And we will continue to do so, Mrs González, we will continue to support the automotive sector, because that is what makes a responsible government and above all a predictable government that defends the Galician industry and defends employment. That's what it does for Galicia to consolidate itself as an international point of reference in connected and electrical mobility because that's what we're doing today, developing a new intelligent and sustainable factory project, making 4.0, which is developing Stellantis in Vigo also with the support of the Galician Union. These are projects that you know and that you simply try to hide to precisely transfer a fully distorted image of what is the automotive sector in Galicia and above all what is the public-private collaboration between the Galician Union and the automotive sector. What a serious and responsible government does, Your Honor, is to support the automotive sector, and we will also do it so that Galicia will become a pioneer in technologies like the hydrogen stack. And, of course, we will also continue to support the sector in training, in the study of emerging technologies, in the Greek skills agenda and in the training plan, which next year will have more than 100 million euros of support. Finally, Mrs González, we are still working on the automotive sector, which is a vanguard and reference sector at the national and international level, even though you are trying to move another image. And what we're going to do is to keep up with the automotive industry, precisely so that in the context of European projects, the automotive industry gets the support it deserves, not only to finance the different investments, but because we know and are aware, Mrs González, that Galicia plays the strategy so that this electrification will allow the year 2025 Stellantis to have a new fully electrified range. And that's what we're going to do, and we're dedicated precisely so that the Government could adjust and open that window so that the processes of Stellantis, Ceaga and CTA could fit in. What's not clear, Mrs. González, is the position of the Government with Galicia, it's not clear yet. As you know, what has so far shown the Government, supported by the Nationalist Block Galego, is to support the Seat and Volkswagen project, even before the publication of its own official summons, which were last Friday. It's very difficult to explain that a government is publicly speaking by supporting a project when we don't have the summons. They worry a lot about us and I think you should be equally worried about how your government partner can work this way. So we're going to follow up on the development of this PERT and find out if all the manufacturers actually agree on equal terms to that call. And we hope that Stellantis and Volkswagen will be able to compete on equal terms; and we hope that in the small letter the Government is not discriminating towards Volkswagen the investments it wants to support with European projects; and we hope Vigo will receive the investments and support that are collected in the Autoancora project. That's it, Mrs. González, which you should be worried about and which seems to you they don't care about. [[Applause]] So we will continue to work and hope that objectively, and we will continue to support the automotive sector with or without the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. They would do well if you had probably changed your attitude and certainly showed a minimum of respect for industry, businesses and especially for the self-employed and the workers who are developing and who are turning Galicia into a reference today in the automotive sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u62	Thank you, Mr. Count. Replica, Mrs González Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u63	Thank you very much, President. First of all, Mr. Conde, the BNG does not despise the private initiative. And besides, you just have to talk to Vigo's businessmen and businessmen and ask for references on the bipartisan advisor Fernando Blanco — who was also unfairly treated — and ask you to think of Mr Fernando Blanco's industrial policies with Vigo's entrepreneurs. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no one here... and, more importantly, I've referred to the positive data that we consider very positive and that they are very good. That's not the problem. Besides, you insisted precisely on what I was saying; that is to say, to support, to follow and to accompany. It's not about that, Mr. Conde, it's not about that. It's about getting ahead, drawing a roadmap, of course, according to trade unions, entrepreneurship, etc. There's no one here talking about radical communism, Bolshevism about what you're talking about, either Venezuela or Bogotá; we're talking about working hand in hand and drawing a road map. Because, look, there's something I'd never tell you to call it, but you're a real negationist here! Because the fact is, when he's in front of the industry, he recognizes the situation in the sector, at least so he collects it from the press, maybe he has to talk to the newspapers that misread his statements. And, more importantly, I'd tell you that this risk, which is also real — that it's not a catastrophic vision, as you like to think, of the Galego Nationalist Block — the transition to the electric car threatens more than 3,000 jobs that will no longer be necessary when the combustion cars disappear. And you yourself recognize it in those statements, so I understand that we agree, even if here you say the opposite. And, in such a case, let's not listen to us, let's say that we don't listen to the Galego Nationalist Block, let's listen to President Feijóo, who says that "to face this uncertain frame set by a clear and precise roadmap and we can't afford improvisation" — textually collected. You're waiting, when you're going through Galicia — between your trip to Madrid and Madrid — and you're talking to him, who explains what he's talking about with those statements. But we agree with the President of the Galician Union, we cannot continue to improvise, we cannot continue to support, accompany and stand by. We can't continue to depend on Stellantis only, agreeing that Stellantis is fundamental and that we have to bet and support Stellantis; but it can't be the only roadmap. And we don't say it, the sector says it. Look, what to do... yes, Mr. Count, and you know, here you can't say it, they're with your hands tied and we understand it, but the reality is that. [[Pause.]] And, look, something else. Come here and tell us to ask the Government of the State. I don't know how the Galician Board does when they present a project to him in their council. I imagine a clusterer or an entrepreneur will come in through the door and say, "Look, I want money to set in motion... any story, without more. I imagine we'll have to take a plan, a project to Madrid that's impossible for them to put down. What is the Galician Union doing to defend the automotive sector in Madrid? What steps have you taken, Mr. Conde, as Industry Counsellor in Madrid to defend the automotive industry? Are we looking forward to it being published? Are you going to tell me you didn't take the phone and make a call to find out what the conditions of PERTE would be like? It's really amazing if you tell me you haven't done anything about it at all, because that's your job, Mr. Conde. [[Pause.]] Your job is to be in Madrid knocking on the door so that the Welsh industry can move forward and have a plan for the future. And that's what they have to do, to push the automotive sector, which is fundamental not only to Galicia but to Vigo and the region. And you didn't answer any of my three questions: from money to Stellantis, the automotion, Autoanchora. But you're going to draw up a roadmap, you're going to draw up a plan for the automobile that points to your future? I hope you answer me in reply. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u64	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. Close the interrogation. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. González, unfortunately, when you have to ask for references to the industrial policy of the Galego Nationalist Block, you should probably talk to the workers at Ence, you should talk to the workers at the bridge thermal power plant, you should talk to Elnosa workers, and you should probably also talk to the Alcoa workers, who, unfortunately, lack of their support there are industries that are stopped precisely by this ideological vision that has the Galego Nationalist Block of our country's industry. [[Applause]] You probably talk to me about what the Galician Union is doing and I believe that in my first intervention I've already moved it, I'll go deep into the replica, but surely when we talk about the automotive sector what the Galician Nationalist Block should do is to stop explicitly supporting the Government of Spain. You just have to confirm how the automotive sector is receiving a permanent negative from the Government of Spain for its competitiveness. I should check how yesterday the Council of Ministers approved electrical planning 2021-2026 and left out Vigo's connection, the transport network of 220 kilowatts, as well as Balados' own electrical substation. Elements and investments that are key to the competitiveness of the automotive sector and the competitiveness of the Stellantis plant. We have claimed to the Government this investment, an investment that was already in power planning 2015-2020, some allegations we have made to the Government to make these investments; and unfortunately, expectations are not good for the automotive sector. The expectations for the Stellantis factory are not good because this infrastructure was directly called to benefit the competitiveness of Stellantis and also of the entire Vigo industry, and also to improve the quality of the service it offers to the homes. That's where the Galician Union is, and unfortunately that's where neither the Galician Nationalist Block nor the Galician Socialist Party is. And of course, as the Government of Spain is benefiting other autonomous communities from the competitiveness of the Galician automotive sector. I'm sorry that the Galician Nationalist Block is also supporting the Government of Spain on these initiatives. You talk to me, Mrs González, also about the future and lack of support for the automotive sector. You should know — you know, all of Galicia except for the Galician Nationalist Block, often you see this in Parliament — how the Galician Union has created a specific office with the automotive sector, with the CTAG and with Stellantis precisely to develop a project that is concrete to 1.2 billion euros of investments which should be the response given by the Government of Spain to the PERT. Will that be so? Then we'll see. So far all we know is that the Government of Spain supports Volkswagen's investment and not Stellantis' investment. And we'll see if that little letter, see what it says; of course, the doubts are there. And it's a reasonable doubt, because it was the minister himself who made this explicit support for a factory project before publishing the official summons. And the silent Galego Nationalist Block, and the silent Galician Socialist Party, and the defense of the automotive sector in hand exclusively of the majority parliamentary group of Galician Union itself. And you told me -- I'm not going to forget, logically, semiconductor projects. You should know that we, like the Galician Union, have already transferred to the President of the Government himself that these investments, linked to the European Semiconductor Plan, depend on the incentives that can be made easier from the European Commission and from the Government itself through European funds. We transferred him to the President of the Government with a letter on November 30, 2021, we anticipated. It is essential that the Government devote European funds so that Spain can benefit from this plan. The question is whether the Government is really going to do it. What I can tell you is that this letter has no concrete answer to the specific support that European funds can allow the automotive sector in Spain to benefit from the European Semiconductor Plan. It won't be, Mrs. González, that we've already lost the battery train and now we've also lost the semiconductor train. If you're still supporting this government, we might find ourselves on that stage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u66	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Marina Ortega Otero's appeal and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Social Policy Council on the area of residences of older people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u67	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u68	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Before I begin, I would like to greet the elderly residential sector present here through the Association of Major Residential Workers of Galicia, and also through workers and workers in the sector representing trade unions who join for a fair cause, such as IGC, UXT and Workers' Commissions. [[LAUGHING]] And also greet the Association of the Network of Family of Senior Residential Users, who could not attend at present for an unexpected but who will follow the debate. Last week, the group of residential workers showed up announcing an unprecedented indefinite strike; all that in Galicia, in particular, the sector in Galicia. And I had the opportunity to talk to them again, and in particular, I remember that one of them told me a sentence that was recorded and is absolutely right, he said to me, "We didn't have to be here." And they didn't have to be there, Counsellor, if the German Government had complied with the recommendations of the Board of Auditors five years ago in the demolition report on the situation of senior residences in Galicia. They didn't have to be there if the Social Policy Council had listened to the workers when they've been complaining for years that staff is not enough, that they work with work overload and that working conditions are precarious; in a job that, of course, is vocational but also very hard. And they didn't have to be there, Counsellor, if they had also listened to the relatives of the residents, the older people, who repeatedly denounced breaches of the regulations or bad practices in the care of their relatives — so to speak in a gentle manner. But the reality is that the Council of Social Policy and the German Government really didn't want them to be there, but for totally different reasons. They don't want noise, no strikes, nor anything they really want from the German Government that everything that accumulates the sector is invisible. And that's why you, Counselor, did not meet directly with the workers, thus underestimating the seriousness of the matter, because you do not listen to them, Counselor. Once again they announce this indefinite strike. And what do you do, Counselor? What does the German Government do? We already know that you do not directly address the subject, but if you sign an order in the DOG last week determining as minimum services the same as it is regulated in Decree 243/1995, which regulates the conditions that residential care centres should meet for older people. Or what's the same, you've ordered minimum services that prevent a strike to the practice of all the staff of Galician residences. [[Applause]] One of two, Counselor, one of two, or they're trying to set off the workers' rights in the sector to strike, or two, you're publicly recognizing that in reality older residences in Galicia have been working at least all these years. We consider it urgent for the Government of Greece, through the Council of Social Policy, to support the sector, to listen to its demands and to measure the achievement of the objectives aimed at improving the attention of the elderly residents and of the workers and workers in the sector, because the board cannot be discouraged by the fact that they are private residents. First, by the nearly 4,000 concerted squares paid with money from all the Greeks and Greeks; and secondly, because the well-being of older people is directly responsible for their counsellor. It also collects its own Law 4/1993 of 14 April 1993 on social services: it confers on the Autonomic Administration competence for the regulation of public or private entities, services and centres providing social services at the territorial level of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, laying down the rules determining the conditions for opening and operating, modifying, training of staff and discharging the activity of centres. And the well-being of older people living in a residence is directly proportional to the conditions that workers and workers have in that same residence. And that's your direct competition, Counselor. And we talked on many occasions about the conditions of workers in the elderly residential sector and also about the lack of staff, but we also talked about the supervisory function of the inspection; how the Board of Auditors found out that the number of centres planned for the inspection was 100% in 2010 and was gradually down to 39% in 2016. Or what's the same, as the number of private squares increased, the number of inspections decreased. And this is a perverse formula for the well-being of the older people who live in residences, for the workers themselves, and for the workers themselves, but also for the residences who do things well and comply with regulations, who are many, but who have to play with unfair competition, many of them real economic empires. And I repeat the same as on other occasions: if you opt for the excessively privatized model, you have an obligation to compensate for this fact with a powerful increase of inspection technicians who make eyes where the competent administration does not arrive, to ensure compliance with the regulations, since it has been completely obsolete since 1995. Because it is such the extreme, that Galicia is the autonomous community that the greatest proportion of private squares has from all over Spain. And while this happens and you encourage this, it's the second autonomous community in all of Spain that less technical inspectors have for the supervision of senior residences in all of Spain. Therefore, the German Government cannot oversee its own competences, and with this they are practicing the eye policy that doesn't see... one of the most important and representative strikes in the sector is called because they are waiting for the renewal of an expired agreement since 2019. The Galician Union, as the competent administration in this area, must take a position on it. And I quote a significant amount of money in this regard, textually: "All Galician residences, whether public, private or social initiative, are under the supervision of the Galician Union and under strict and continuous control." I suppose here the representatives of the People's Party and the same adviser will sound these words, because they are their textual words, Counselor, which you have spoken here in this House on several occasions. But if these are his words, they're really not corresponding to their own reality, when they're not paying attention to the problem they have. They have to be brave, look at the workers' eyes, mediate and take positions on wage updates and improve the working conditions that the sector demands, as well as an increase in staff depending on the number and degree of dependency of residents, among others. There are issues at stake that are very relevant to the safety and care of older people themselves, bearing in mind that when there is a lack of staff in precarious conditions the first affected are the older people themselves, so it is urgent that the Galician Union make decisions about it. Throughout this legislation, we've had a lot of debates about senior residences. Every proposal we made, every claim of information, every time we made visible the complaints of the sector, both of the workers and the workers, and relatives of the residents, you, Counsellor, have twistedly used the workers in their speeches, using them as a smokescreen to cover their lack of management. And political credibility is based on accompanying words with actions. And you have practiced much praise to the workers, but only by word, not by work. It's time to turn the praises and thanks into reality of running away into empty words without commitment. He meets with them, listens to the demands and measures in this situation, Counselor. A counselor such as Social Policy requires courage, sensitivity to deal with problems that are often very uncomfortable. But it's just that the German Government, through his eyes, has to look in front of the collective and give an answer. And today you have the opportunity, because they are here and, if you have a few minutes after the debate, it would be appropriate for you to receive and talk to them, because they are here. And to recognize not only by word, but also by work, all the work that has been done these years with a staff deficit that raises the burden and the labor pressure to levels that prevent the exercise of quality care for older people, who are their direct responsibility. Deficit of staff that you yourself recognize when determining minimum services that compromise the practice of all personnel, thus preventing them from exercising their rights to strike. The collective of residential workers does a very hard job, but we never forget that the care sector is the future of our country as we continue in this dynamic of depopulation and aging that we have; not only at the social level, but also the economic importance of the care sector. So I ask you, Counselor, to stop practising the blind eye policy that you don't see, knowing that many of these workers are working on conditions of work overload and in some cases with wages below the minimum inter-professional wage. And let's not forget that residents workers inevitably establish bonds of affection with their own residents, with older people. And the fact that you don't have a few moments to stop listening to them, to talk to them, to see how in some cases they don't comply with their own regulations even offering poor or unbalanced diets, as it says in a gentle way, many of those who dared to denounce these facts have lost their jobs. And many others, who didn't report him, shut his mouth for fear of losing his job. [[Applause]] All our gratitude. The pandemic was the drop that filled the glass, because they had to face it starting from conditions that had been denouncing for years. And when no one dared enter hospitals or residences, they were near the cannon. Because the reasons why the strike has already existed before the pandemic, but they decided that at the worst moment of the pandemic was not the time to do so, because of responsibility and that's why they waited for the residences to be better off to make clear what their priorities are. Today from the Socialist Group we urge the German Government to publicly support the demands of the elderly residential sector through the Social Policy Council, which is calling for an indefinite strike, demanding the renewal of the labour agreement, which blinds the wage increase that corresponds to workers and is fair to the sector, as well as the increase of staff according to the number and degree of dependence of residents among other demands. You always rely on the new residential model to take advantage of technology even. They talked about robots like Copito de Castile-Leon where they rule now, by the way, with Vox, but there will never be a robot or any kind of technology that replaces or improves the attention of a worker. Technology will never replace a glance, a conversation, a stroke, a hug.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u70	Today you take care of them and them, but time passes quickly and tomorrow we'll be lucky enough and they'll take care of us, and their working conditions will be directly proportional to the quality of our care. We practice empathy, this late or early will affect everyone. Let's hear the sector. And I'm done with the sentence I started with: we didn't have to be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u71	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u72	I gave them that signal because the rules don't allow the people who visit us, the people who have guests in the gallery, to manifest themselves either in favour or against. It's the rule we have and I ask you, please, to respect it. Nothing else. You now have the floor to answer the social policy advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people you are accompanying us at this plenary meeting, Mrs Ortega, are very good for everyone. The object of your inquiry is the negotiation of a collective agreement in which, as I'm sure you know, the Galician Union does not participate. The Staff Regulations provide that collective bargaining takes place between staff representatives and employers. And, therefore, the Greek Government is not that it doesn't want to, nor can it even participate in the dialogue between the parties. The Greek Government, as it could not be otherwise, will respect the agreements reached by workers and businesses, and we really trust that as soon as they can reach a consensus, they can reach a satisfactory consensus for both sides without the attention of older people being resonated. So in response to your questions, first of all, the Social Policy Council met with trade unions in the field of their competences; that is, for the establishment of minimum services, which were published in the Official Journal of Galicia last Wednesday, 16 March. Secondly, the flexibility of terms of employment is not a decision taken by the Galician Union, but by the Central Government. The Official Gazette of the State of 31 December will be reviewed, and you will see the resolution of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 that regulates it. When they need it to ensure continuity of service, residences are hiring personnel at the expense of this measure of national scope and always respecting the premises they mark. For any help or technical consultation, workers know very well that they have at their disposal the General Directorate and the Galego Labour Relations Council, both of which are members of the Employment and Equality Council. As a matter of fact, Mrs Ortega, I have already pointed out to you that trade union organizations have just asked the Labour Relations Council to act on their own initiative, and this has just accepted this request, which only happens on occasions of great public relevance. [[Applause]] The mediator has just called the two parties to a meeting to refer to the agreement, and I am fully convinced that, if we let them talk, this work situation will be resolved. I would also like to stop at the respective training, which is very important. I agree that in all professions and in all fields it is necessary to advance the training of professionals, but in social services centers it is even more important, because it not only allows workers to optimize their time and get the most out of it, but also helps to strengthen the quality of care. That's why we've come to put in place the I plan for continuing training of the social services of Galician history. An unprecedented training initiative for professionals in day-to-day centres, children's centres, socio-Community centres and, of course, senior residences. We're talking about a comprehensive programme of more than 300 activities and over 6,000 hours, aimed at 10,000 professionals from all centres in Galicia. Gender in the professional category: auxiliaries, cleaning professionals, social workers, nursing workers, doctors, physiotherapists, inspectors and many others. It is also intended for all centres to be of any title. And the workers can choose between the face mode and the online mode. With these activities, we address the doubts of the staff and they form into the most advanced care techniques. We want this bet decided by professional training not to be a matter of time, not a matter of time, but it will come to stay. That's why from now on all the residential centres in Galicia will need to contain annually with a training offer that is appropriate to the needs and challenges of their staff. Training and assistance continues to be negotiated through the labour relations bodies available to the autonomous community. That's right, and constructively and within our competences as the Galician Union supports all the professionals of private homes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u74	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u75	Thank you, President. The truth is, I wasn't expecting this answer, Counselor, I was expecting something else, and the sector I think I was expecting something else. Absolute disappointment. Are you telling us, Counsellor, that you cannot mediate when the supervisory body itself, the Board of Auditors itself in its recommendations cites matters relating to staff? Counsellor, the worst thing that can happen to a politician in the exercise of his duties is to lose credibility. You've been saying for a long time that it will implement in Galicia a new model of residences that doesn't seem like substantial changes today, for older people, for the workers and workers sector. You say you'll increase the number of inspection technicians. For when, when, that significant number? It's just that not only are the working conditions of workers and workers at stake, is that they're at stake in their own safety, well-being and quality care that the older people in Galicia deserve. You say you'll increase the number of inspection technicians, but you don't. We keep waiting for those promises that never come, and come here today and practically doesn't say anything, just that it has nothing to do with you, do you wash your hands? Is that really that sensitivity that the people who have been working during the pandemic, who you've really used them to try to hide their incompetence by asking for applause for them? The applause now is time to do it, meet with them, talk to them now that they're up there in the Chamber. [[Applause]] And to you this isn't the surprise pill, she's not a novice, Counselor. Because she's a social policy advisor today, but she's a social policy advisor in the past legislation, and previously she's a general director of Majors, nothing more and nothing less, so you had to be charged with receipts of more complaints, complaints, warnings of non-compliance with regulations than anyone else. If I've received them, you can imagine a lot more. We were talking about the residential model, about the new residential model, they talk a lot in the press, but this is actually also a residential model. The working conditions of the workers who perform with all the affection of the world care for the elders; and the strike, textually said strike in Galician residences, "they're turning into a assembly chain," that's what's happening in Galician residences, Counsellor. I understand that you are also in quite a situation... on the subject of Mr. President Feijóo's appearance yesterday, you are in a quite compromised situation, Counsellor, because I quote textually: "respective of the suffering of families, and of all the workers who are in a particularly delicate situation, in most sectors of Galicia", yesterday's words by Mr. Feijóo referring to the transporters. For when is that same respect for the workers and workers in the elderly residential sector of Galicia? Because this problem doesn't come from now on, it comes from long ago; and it doesn't come from the pandemic either, it comes from before the pandemic. [[Applause]] And they didn't want to make noise because, if they wanted to make noise, they would strike at the moment when it hurts the most, too, in the middle of the pandemic, that in addition to the greatest impact it would also be the most comfortable for them, when nobody dared to enter groovy residences, because even we were afraid to go down the elevator, get down the garbage, play the elevator, but they knew what they had to do. They were near the cannon when no one wanted to enter residences with fear in the body too, because they also have families and they also had to get to their homes after working with fear in the body for collecting the virus and getting to their homes with their family. But they were standing by the cannon giving the best of themselves, not to leave the people thrown away, not to leave our biggest shots. And this is the answer from the Social Policy Council, Counsellor? As a matter of responsibility, they'll return it to you from the German Government. They meet right now, they have them there, and they solve this situation, Counselor. I really didn't get what you just did, I didn't expect this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u76	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And, Mrs Ortega, I have the utmost regard to the demands of the staff of the elderly, of all, of the public, of the social initiative and of course also of all the private. And I'm convinced, I'm sure you also get the same respect from me. But the way to respect them is to act within the framework of our powers and not to exceed ourselves in any case of these powers. Within, I insist, of the limits that mark our state laws and autonomous laws, we are working to improve attention in larger centers, in all of them, in all kinds of centers, whatever title. So three months ago, we presented a leading proposal in Spain to improve Galician residential system by learning, of course, as you say, from lessons learned especially in recent months. This new residential model is based on four fundamental pillars. On the one hand, the humanization of the treatment and continuing training, as I was telling you, of all the professionals of the senior residences. Secondly, the use of technology, of course, to perfect the attention of older people. Thirdly, to improve coordination between two worlds, the social world and the health world, which in Galicia are increasingly working together and we are working hand in hand. And fourthly, continue to implement structural and architectural reforms, which will begin to be applied to all newly built residences. At this point, the central government is also engaged in drafting common criteria for autonomous communities, an effort that we naturally thank and must always be made from realism. Anyone who comes near to improve residences has to put on a balance two elements that are very important and that are non-negotiable. On the one hand, you have to improve the quality of care for older people and, on the other hand, ensure accessibility to a service such as residential service. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's residential system is moving forward, advancing to 13,000 public-funded squares, twice as long as the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block were ruling. It advances, of course, with clear objectives to improve attention to our elders, which is what marks, precisely the new model of residences of Galicia. Advances with this plan of pioneering training so that workers are trained and adapted to new challenges as well. And it advances and so I hope through dialogue, through dialogue between companies and workers, without interference, without interference and with all the support they need from the workplace, with high looks, with proportionality and with loyalty. Mrs Ortega, I ask you to let us negotiate, I ask you to let them reach agreements, let us let the parties involved solve the problem without interference. That's right, with all the help they need, because speaking you know very well that it's as if you understand people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u78	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u79	We're going to raise three questions. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and nine other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the information available to the Council of Galicia on the situation in which the Alu Iberian plant is located in the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u80	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Second Vice-President. Before we begin this question, I want to show all the support of the People's Parliamentary Group to nearly 300 workers from Alu Iberian in the Coruña who are living difficult and uncertain times. By the way, a situation that this parliamentary group and the Galician Union have been warning for a long time. The situation in Alu Iberian is unfortunately a faithful reflection of the bad decisions taken by the Government of Sánchez. We can talk about a critical situation in the sector as a result of an electric price that prevents competition on equal terms with the rest of the European countries in which action is being taken. Focusing on Alu Iberian, it must be remembered that it was the Socialist Government itself who valued the sale of the plants of Avilés and of the Coruña the part of Capital Group, despite the continued warning that was made from the Unity of Galicia and even that they also let the leaders of the Government of the Principality of Asturias industry find out, since it was a sale that offered no guarantees and, as you are seeing with the passage of time, could not offer guarantees because there were no guarantees. A worrying situation that clashed with the central government's triumphalism by then; an exacerbated triumphalism, for example, by the government delegate here in Galicia, Mr. Losada, who spoke of a collective success thanks to a socialist Government. Or the Minister of Industry Mrs. Reyes Maroto, who spoke of collective success, a success for all. Something they said while more than half of Alu Iberian's template practically had no workload. So in the face of this inaction by the Government of the State, I would like to ask: What information does the Council of Galicia have on the situation in which the Alu Iberian plant is located in the Coruña in relation to the involvement of the Government of Spain in the search for a future solution to maintain industrial activity and employment? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u82	Thank you, Mr. Pardo. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pardo, indeed, the Galician Union has been warning that the future of Alu Iberian needs the involvement of all parties, without any differentiation, so that we can help turn the Coruña factory into a green aluminium plant at which the circular economy pushes. That's the shared goal of the Galician Union along with the workers, because that's how we've identified it, and so we're defining it in the permanent contact we have with our own company committee. In fact, we have drawn up a sales book from the staff board, precisely, which has been delivered to both the Government and the contest administrator so that it can be used as a lever to identify that project and that industrial investor that allows them to continue their work and jobs. But it's also true that in order to achieve this goal, we need everyone's sum, everyone's contribution, and that's why it's very important right now to count on the central government's involvement. A government that has to assume its responsibility, a responsibility that part of Alcoa's fake closure in 2019 by blessing the Ministry of Industry itself with a partial solution from the Fund to start with a two-year expiration date. And it's also a responsibility to keep a margin on the sale after the Risk Group in April 2020. The Government still does not put an electric price on the table that guarantees the viability of primary aluminium production in Spain and therefore the production of primary aluminium in Alu Iberian. We all know that bilateral contracts are part of the solution. At present the Spanish electrointensive industry pays an average of 228 euros/megavatito, which is more than twice as much as in France and almost 20% more than in Germany. But in these two countries, the application of the energy framework allows France to reduce the market price by 26 euros, which in Germany can reduce the market price by 27 euros, and in Spain, by applying the energy framework, it rises by 10 euros/megavatio the cost of electricity. So without that collaboration, it's going to be very difficult to carry on with the production of aluminum, logically, without having that price. And the government's still, unfortunately, not working together to unlock the situation and look for a solution. He announces that there are three investors, but he doesn't communicate or contact anyone to identify those investors and be able to work with them. So, let's hope the Government can be part of the solution because, of course, the Galician Union is working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u84	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u85	...to be part of that solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u86	Replica, Mr. Pardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u87	Thank you, second vice president. As you well point out, we are before a central government unable to assume responsibility. A central government obsessed with a bad so-called energy transition that is causing the greatest industrial crisis in recent decades. A central government incompetent for not wanting to exercise its powers. A central government that has in its hand to solve the industrial energy problem of this country and that is nothing other than to offer a stable energy framework that allows our industries to be competitive. A central government which does not listen, does not listen to the workers' request, does not listen to Parliament's request to make a temporary intervention through Sepi until a new investor is found; by the way, here in this Parliament, approved unanimously by all groups of this House. And a central government that doesn't listen, but that is also the champion of lies; we can remember how in a rally President Sánchez, accompanied by the mayor of the Crown, told the workers that "in 9 months we have guaranteed the future of Alcoa." Those promises made by President Sánchez in the campaign, after the campaign was completed, were left on wet paper, for unfortunately we are before a central government that does not have an energy policy; and I do not say so, I say to the Minister of Industry himself, Mrs Maroto, who said, "The Government undertakes to work for an industrial policy in this country and to make changes in the price of energy." And in two years, not only did they not do it, but they aggravated the problem. That is why, Vice-President, I would like to ask how you value the situation of the intensive industry and the inaction of the central government in this sense? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u88	Thank you, Mr. Pardo. Close the question. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Pardo, indeed, we are in an enormously complicated situation, we are in a competitive process. And, therefore, we have since the Galician Union, and from the very best of the work being done by the contestant and the judge himself, we agree with the workers that it is possible to sit down to negotiate a future for Alu Iberian in the Coruña and look for other alternatives to the whole staff framework. We understand that it is possible if we all really add effort and we are able to work together. And, therefore, identify those investors, share the information and, above all, work so that we can identify that viable industrial project. And also, logically — and so have we moved it — can even perform a temporary intervention of the factory through Sepi if necessary until that investor is found. That's the commitment of the Galician Union and, therefore, we will continue to work in that direction. It's true that we need that government involvement; firstly, in identifying that industrial investor and sharing the different options; and, secondly, also with the measures that an intensive company like Alu Iberian needs. And so we need the government to go from announcements to fact. I remember in this House that on 2 March this year the President of the Government announced that 80% of the transport costs would be reduced. Today, on 23rd, we have no concrete action to ratify that announcement made by the President-in-Office of the Government himself. And, just as this measure seems essential to us and which is part of the allegations we have put forward, we are also asking you to apply the maximum indirect CO2 compensation, which is estimated at EUR 450 million for this year 2022; that marginal energy thrusts can be published, and that bilateral contracts can also be facilitated at competitive prices and also committed and promised through that Statute of electro-intensive consumers. So the future of Alu Iberian goes through that double commitment. Firstly, with industrial work; and, secondly, if necessary — as I said — the intervention of Sepi itself. And secondly also, with a competitive electric price that is necessarily drowning companies at the moment. They're stopping their business companies like Ferroatlantica, like Megasa, like CELSA. How can we identify an industrial investor if we are not able to guarantee a competitive price to maintain industrial activity? That's what we're asking the Government for, and, of course, the workers know that they have all our support to work in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr. Martín Seco García and Mrs. Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the offers presented by the companies that opt for the purchase of the yard of Barreras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u91	Thank you, President. The 130-year-old Barrier Sons have lights and shadows. A yard that was nationalized in the 1970s, which remained under the state umbrella until it was privatized by Aznar in 2011. Which in 2011 presented a contest of voluntary creditors that was finally passed through an extension of capital and a payment plan with the auxiliary companies. In 2013 the Mexican oil tanker Pemex entered the capital of Barreras with 51% of the shareholdership presenting a very ambitious plan, but despite the announcements of the Mexican company and the president of the Union himself, the great valuer of this sale, remained in nothing with a company that was forced to cancel the projects and major investments announced. In 2017, he signed a contract with the division of cruises from the hotel chain Ritz-Carlton for the construction of a luxury cruise named Evrima, but again the overcosts and delays left the shipyard in a grave economic situation. In 2019, the accumulation of a EUR 50 million debt to the subcontracted companies again introduced Barreras in a pre-competitive situation. And to unlock the Evrima project the branch of cruisers was forced to acquire 100% of the yard. At the end of 2020 the turbulent relationship of the yard with the oil tanker Pemex, recently criticised by the Mexican President to the scam catalogue by the Galician Union, a body that managed the negotiations between the yard and the Mexican oil tanker. The situation in Barreras did not improve with this acquisition and already in December of 2021 three Spanish companies — Armón, Gondán and Marina Meridional — presented binding offers for the installation of the port of Vigo. Last January 2022, consultant Kroll presented a voluntary bid of creditors in order to prevent Vigo's facilities from continuing to devaluate. From the consultant, a direct sale of the production unit from the yard was proposed to one of the three companies that had made firm offers. And on February 9th this year, the Greek Justice has authorized the contest administrator to start the direct sale process, and it has allowed a last 10 days for the companies concerned to improve, if they so deemed appropriate, the binding offers submitted. Once the offers were received, the contest administrator opened a hearing period for both the workers and the contestant, the creditors and the Harbour Authority, after which the yard managers appointed by the judge would issue an assessment report with the result, in addition to allowing the initiation of the proceeding to execute the direct sale. In this line, from our group, we believe that the Government of Galicia — a party responsible for the problems of the instability of the yard — should use its competences in industrial and employment matters to assess and quantify the proposals put forward, in order to inform the competitive administrator of what is the best proposal to guarantee work at the yard and stability at work. That is why, Mr. Conde, we would like to ask you if you think the Government of Greece is preparing the report that evaluates and quantifys the offers made by the companies that choose to buy Barreras.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u92	Thank you, Mr. Seco. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Martín Seco, it's curious that the Socialist Party, when it wants to talk about industrial policy, is going to the Galician Union with these two final ideas that you move: the Galician Union is responsible for a private company acting with private criteria and with private management, because anything that happens is the responsibility of the Galician Union. And secondly, of course, as we have the powers, because logically we are certainly not applying them correctly. My question to you, if I may, is, what are we accused of in the Barreras case? I'm going to give you a report on the action of the Galician Board with regard to this yard. As you know, thanks to the Galician Junta, this yard, which was in an Accreditation Competition in 2011, thanks to the Industrial Policy of Galician Junta, this yard had a load of work when few were betting on our shipyards. Year 2012. We supported the yard capitalization when I needed to develop and diversify its productive activity, in 2013. We offer you funding, Mr. Martín Seco, fully returned but allowed you to build the fleet, 2017. We promote the continuation of naval activity in the Vigo River precisely by supporting the auxiliary industry with a specific loan line for the rescue of companies affected by the situation of the Greek shipyard; 23 companies that benefited from this line of aid amounting to almost EUR 14 million, year 2020. In addition, in 2021 we made ourselves available to the Government of Spain by committing 8 million euros to invest in the yard precisely in the difficult situation it was going through. A government who abandoned the commitment and collaboration of the Galician Union, and who did not grant it the loan of EUR 30 million in the solvency fund that requested the yard itself. 2021. And this year 2022 has no doubt that the Galician Union will again be supporting the yard. And the Galician Union will of course support the Barreras purchase proposal to maintain that workload and, therefore, to give viability to the yard itself. We'll be supporting the yard and the workers in the resolution that the contest administrator can make about the different offers he has. So, Mr. Martín Seco, if there's anything you're doing on the board of Galicia in the naval sector, it's supporting the shipyards, the auxiliary industry, the workers. And, in concrete terms, if something has done to the Council of Galicia with respect to the Vigo naval and with respect to Barreras it is unconditionally to support all the needs — financial and other, commercial —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u95	...who needed the yard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u97	...to maintain the situation that the council has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u99	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u100	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Dry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u101	Surely, Mr. Conde, within your achievements at the Galician Council, you did not mention the liquidation of Vulcan, and why you do not meet with the company committee that asked you to meet and you hide again and again. [[Murmurs.]] The Board, speaking now, must be an active part of this process, and the works committee itself reported that the offers presented by the different companies in the social field range from an offer that contemplates the continuity of around 20 workers to two others who waged for the maintenance of the staff set. As for the facilities, they also find different perimeters in the bids made, two of them only include the concessionaire part, and the other bet on the maintenance of the workshops on private land. From the union section of UGT, a majority union in the company committee — today here and what I take advantage of to greet and ask you to meet with them — they say that you should value and defend the offers that keep employment and stability in a reliable industrial project after the bandages you have given the yard; a claim that has been defending since the first minute. According to the chairman of the company committee himself, Sergio Gálvez, the new owner must maintain the existing employment. And he pointed out the contradiction that it would be to exclude experienced staff at a time when good professionals with experience in the naval sector are missing. And in Barreras there's a professional experience of 30 years. The metal association, ASIME, also advocated a solution that guarantees the yard to end these attacks in this centenary company. From an industrial point of view, everyone points out that Gondán's offer is the one that offers greater guarantees and carries immediate workload, in addition to being supported by a company with trajectory, experience and internationalization that inflates immediate workload to Barreras, since the Asturian shipyard has its full grades and needs to build new ships. So, Mr. Conde, you said: "The Galician board will always be for a proposal that allows activity in the shipyard," we don't understand why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u102	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u103	... doesn't make those [...] workers need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u104	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Applause]] Close this question, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Martín Seco, who are you telling you that the Galician Union is not having an active position in the Barriers situation? Who is hiding from you that the Galician Union has already met on at least three occasions with the company committee and with the workers to address the situation of Barreras? Why do they hide the truth from you or are you just hiding it? Look, the Galician Union is currently given the highest priority to cooperate with the trial and the competition administration in order to find the best solution for the yard, so don't have the slightest doubt. And we are advocating a proposal that includes a viable long-term offer, because we understand that it is the best possible guarantee for the future and the maintenance of employment. So we have transferred it to the company committee, with which we keep that permanent contact and, of course, they don't have any kind of doubt either you or the workers, that we will respect the proposal that is chosen because we are respecting a decision of a contest administrator and a judicial administration, but not only will we respect it, but we will support it. Because that's where the Galician Union will be to ensure that viability for the future. [[Applause]] But, if you think, Mr. Martín Seco, why don't we abandon your role as Government spokesperson and agree with the Galician People's Party, the Galician Union and the Galician Socialist Party in supporting the naval sector against the Government? I'll make you two proposals. The first is why it does not support what the Galician Council has already requested from the Government on 26 October last year, so that the Government can ensure that the shipbuilding sector is included within the regional incentives aid for the period 2021-2027. Do we agree? In the last bill they abstained. Do we agree? Second proposal. What it seems to you if we transfer to the Government that in the ship's PERTE, which is an opportunity precisely for the naval sector and the auxiliary industry with an investment of 300 million euros, which seems to you if we ask the Government to be transparent and to let you know what are the specific criteria that will be included in the regulatory bases that we do not know, and calls that are not published. What do you think if we work together? Look at the government wrongs, it's wrong when it considers that autonomous communities can't make contributions on the PERTE to the naval. And the Socialist Party is wrong when it's simply referencing centralism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u107	...of the Government of Spain at the moment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u108	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Martín Seco García, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Government of Greece of the imminent beginning of the construction of the frigates F-110 in Ferrol contracted by the Ministry of Defence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u109	It's a shame he hadn't spent a minute talking about Barreras and only the Government of Spain, I'm sure he's going with Feijóo on his way to Madrid. [[Applause]] Look, despite the bad wishes of the People's Party of Galicia, despite the fact that the Government of Mariano Rajoy left Navantia company in technical breach, supported by SEPI's participatory loans, despite the fact that the minister Morenés of the People's Party, very interested in putting missiles on his company to the frigates against the Navy reports, had paralysed the contracts. Despite all this, Defence Minister Margarita Robles announced a few days ago that the Navy will count in 2027 with the first frigate F-110, a ship that will begin to be built soon with the sheet cut of two blocks in the workshops of the railway yard. With this announcement, the programmed milestones are completed and, as he said, despite the continued statements by the leaders of the People's Party and the Government of Greece that announced delays and have been dedicated for months to criticise the Government of Spain without placing on the table own measures in competences of the Council of Galicia, such as employment and training, to help workers and workers affected by the lack of workload resulting from the mismanagement of their Government in Spain until 2018. This construction will be an essential and fundamental impulse for the Navy and for the whole ferrola comarca. A historic contract of 4,300 million euros that launched the Ministry of Defence with which up to 9,000 jobs can be created, both directly and indirectly. And, as the minister said, the project is bound inextricably to Ferrolterra. The recruitment of staff will be in ascending curve as the various constructive tasks are being developed and, as announced by the president of Navantia, it will also be imminent to launch the subblock workshop. In the coming months, after cutting the first irons of steel, the final design review will take place, which implies the total launch of the program that will generate occupation on the railway yard for the next ten years. The program is considered by Navantia as the cornerstone of the railway yard's digitization at a time when the public company is fully immersed in the 4.0 digital transformation plan. One of the main innovations that this contract presents is digitaljemelgo, a virtual replica that spreads over the ship itself or remotely on land, which will raise the standards of predictive maintenance of the ship, investments in innovation that will also be exportable to the civil world, which will also allow F-110 to be marketed internationally, reverting to the Ferrol economy and supporting the productive fabric of the defence industry in Galicia. In addition, Navantia has launched the Strategic Plan for the turbine factory, with the object of supporting this so specialized business that is only carried out on this yard, and working on new business opportunities for the floating wind, in order to ensure the continuity of Navantia-Fene as a reference centre in the wind sector at European level. For all this, Mr. Conde, I ask you: What do the Government of Greece think about the imminent beginning of the construction of the F-110 frigates in Ferrol, the biggest contract in the history of the Ministry of Defense in Ferrol?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u110	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Martín Seco, I understand that since you in your question are referring to the Government, I can now speak of the Government. Because let's go, if you'll excuse me, logically. Because, of course, you understand that this morning you've been given a very complicated task: being a spokesman for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party at this time in Galicia is a real challenge. I congratulate you at least for trying. [[Applause]] Look, you probably talk to me about training and employment. I remind you that when we talk about Navantia, the steps of this yard have been empty since August, empty, unloaded, by the management — understanding — of Navantia. And surely you should remind the Minister of Labour that he returns for Ferrol and returns for Navantia, and that he sees how empty the steps are. The minister who always said he was defending the naval sector and is really hiding in the Government of the Socialist Party to harm Ferrol with his silence. [[Applause]] In any case, Your Honor, I remind you that it was the Socialist Government that was unable to execute the 252 million euros included by the Government of Mariano Rajoy for the F-110 frigates in the 2018 budgets, which were in 2019 and 2020; three consecutive years without executing an budget that left the Government of the People's Party in the budgets. And that in 2021 it only included 66 million euros for that year and this year it is devoting only 2.7 % of the necessary investment. Mr. Martín Seco, 2.7 % of all the investment needed to develop the frigates. I should remember that Navantia doesn't have that bridge ship that we claimed from Navantia so they weren't empty grades. But can you explain to me why the Government if you took over the Cadiz that same bridge ship? Do we want to explain? Why does Cádiz have a job load and Ferrol? Can you explain it from the Galician Socialist Party? He's probably having a hard time. In any case, Your Honor, what I ask you is where is the commitment of the Government of Spain, where is the commitment of the Socialist Party of Galicia to Ferrol? Why does the government not give a concrete answer to the state pact we have transferred to it, with concrete commitments from all administrations? Of course also the Galician Union, EUR 80 million that we have already invested in Ferrol linked to this state pact. Where's the government? Unfortunately absent and silent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u112	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u113	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, the paperboard has you, always hidden the industrial problems of Galicia. But the questions may tell Mr. Feijó that he will ask them at the Senate to the Government when he touches it. The propaganda policy in Galicia, Mr. Conde, we all know it, which, by the way, is the only policy that makes the Government Feijóo and in which you are an advanced student. By throwing balloons out to industrial problems, in which you have full competition and selling as your own the successes of companies that nothing has to thank your department. It's not hard to find it in a picture when some company makes an investment, but, Mr. Count, it's impossible to find it in a photo gathered, bringing solutions, with someone in the industry going through problems. A situation known to the agents of the sector where you are already known as the advisor of deindustrialization. [[Applause]] And on that line I'd like to know what you've done and do your department to boost activity on the public yards of Ferrol. Which does or did its department for the industrial economic impulse of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. The only measure for the industrial development of Ferrolterra that took its government is to put an office of the Galician Union in Ferrol, or to make a bookshop Competitions to the State Government about the needs of the county. Is that all you have to contribute to industrial policy in Ferrol? Why don't they make a real reindustrialization plan for these districts to ensure that auxiliary companies have alternative and workload to Navantia? Why don't they improve the industrial soil situation in this territory? Why don't you improve the road communications from Ferrolterra? Why not improve port infrastructure and the fishing and seafood situation? Why didn't they use their full powers in industrial policy to give greater impetus to the Starship 4.0 project? Do you know why they don't? Because, after seeing Gamesa close in Somozas or Vestas en Viveiro at a time of boosting renewable energies, everybody's clear that you've been giving up industrial politics for a long time. Mr. Conde, Galician Union also has the skills in employment and training. And I ask you, if the government of the state in Navantia has secured with the industrial plan the work of all its workers in Ferrol,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u114	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u115	... why don't you do the same with [...]?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u116	Thank you. Close the question, second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Martín Seco, don't confuse yourself, the Council of Galicia welcomes the Government's rectification and therefore commits itself to the execution of the F-110 frigates. That's our occupation of course, and of course it's going to have all the collaboration of the Galician Union. But at the same time I keep asking you, why didn't the Socialist Party of Galicia support that bridge ship, didn't you support it at the time? I ask you why the Socialist Party of Galicia continues without supporting the construction of the dry dam that will allow the competitiveness of the yard towards the future; why they continue to be spokesperson for the Government and the president of Navantia who came here to Ferrol, Galicia saying that they will not build the dry dam. We will certainly not share that decision and we will continue to demand for Ferrol the investments it needs for the naval sector to be competitive. Don't have the slightest doubt, with your support or without your support. [[Applause]] Talk to me about the actions of the Galician Council. See, in a public yard owned by the State where, by the way — and by the way — Galician Union has requested its participation in the Navantia Board of Directors, it has formally requested it. Do you know what the answer is? Quiet. Quiet. Will you support the participation of the Galician Board of Directors from the Socialist Party? Of course, it is already formally requested, it is only surely lacking your support and your visa and pleases the Government to change its position. In any case, Mr. Martín Seco, tell me about the performances. Look, on a public building owned by the Government of the State, this Council of Galicia has adequate its aid framework to provide direct funding for the Navantian shipyard itself to develop its projects. That project of what you're pretending to be, the digital twins, has a support of 2.5 million euros to the bottom of the Galician Union, what do you think? It seems to you that Navantia is also participating in three joint units that are co-financed with the Galician Union for an amount of about EUR 5 million. What do you think, Mr. Martín Seco? This government will not hesitate to give you all the support in the field of innovation, in the field of training, in the field of digitisation, in the field of energy efficiency that the yard needs, but the Government is what it has to take on investments to make this yard competitive. So assume the construction of the dry dam, equip it with workload, and of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u119	...to allow Galician board to participate in the Navantia Board of Directors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u120	Thank you. We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u121	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. We continue with point number 8, questions to the Government. Question by Maria Begoña Freire Vázquez and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Council on the draft state housing law dealt with in the Congress of Deputies and its invasion of exclusive autonomous competences in this matter
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u122	And it is now appropriate to put the question to Mrs. Maria Begoña Freire Vázquez of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. From this Popular Parliamentary Group we are really concerned about the drift that the Central Government is taking on housing, making decisions without taking into account the opinion of the autonomous communities or their management experience and much less the reality of their population in the different territories. One example is the State Housing Plan 2022-2025 and the regulation of the young rental bond. Of course, it is also the level of improvisation in relation to aid to the recovery, transformation and resilience plan financed by European funds and in which the Central Government sends new instructions on the implementation of the funds every few days, requiring that the basis for calls be changed with the delay. But in addition to this, with the PSOE Central Government Housing Bill and We can intend to invade the powers that autonomous communities have assigned as their own in terms of housing and impose their criteria. The Housing Bill invades these powers, which has already been expressed by active and passive from the Galician Union, from other autonomous communities and even from the General Council of the Judiciary, which has issued a clear and powerful report on this matter. We had the opportunity to ask you about this end in another plenary session when the project was still starting its parliamentary process. But last March 10 the legal text passed the entire debate in the Congress of Deputies. He passed the whole debate in Congress despite the fact that five parliamentary groups, including the Popular, were asking for his return to the Government for invading the autonomous competences of housing. He drew attention to the fact that the text went forward in Congress not only by the vote of the groups supporting the central government, but also by parties such as the BNG, which abstained in the vote on amendments to the whole. That is, on the one hand, to call for the withdrawal of this rule because of lack of consensus and dialogue and to invade the exclusive competences in the area of housing assigned to the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, and the BNG abstaining from the debate as a whole, thereby making it easier to process a clearly unconstitutional text that acts against Galicia. In all the above, we ask the following question: What is the assessment of the Galician Council regarding the approval in Congress of Members of a text such as the State Housing Act, which invades the exclusive autonomous competences in this matter? For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Freire. Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u125	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Freire, we've been alerting for months since Galicia's election to the text of the future housing law. From minute one, when we found out that it was a law to all unconstitutional light and that it invades the exclusive powers that Galicia has and that it has autonomous communities in this matter, so we made it manifest in our allegations, so we made it public, so we moved it to the ministry, and so also the General Council of the Judiciary. And in the same line we have also just pronounced the Galician Competition Council, which considers that the law introduces clearly inefficient measures to facilitate access to a housing; and which considers the limitation of rent prices as an intervention contrary to the competition laws that may have perverse effects, is more, opposite to those sought. We're not the only community that says it, so many autonomous communities are screaming in this direction. And despite all this, on March 10, this text passed its first procedure in Congress, even though five parliamentary groups were asking for its return, that text's returned to the Government. So unfortunately a new opportunity was lost to rectify, to speak to the autonomous communities, to put a stop to this interventionist attempt by the state. The text, therefore, will go ahead with its processing, despite all the warnings made from the different sectors. And he will do so not only by the vote of the PSOE, not only by the vote of Podemos, but also by the abstention of the BNG — something that greatly attracts our attention. It is not understood as a nationalist-proclaimed party abstaining from a bill in which the State unilaterally intends to enter into regular aspects that fall within the competence of an autonomous community, as is the case with protected housing, as is the management of the public housing park, as are the periods of protection that will affect promotions... It calls very much attention to this attitude, because there are other nationalist groups, it is the case with the PNV, which they abstained; they abstained and showed their rejection because this law incurs obvious excesses in relation to the competences of autonomous communities. For which, there's a double measuring rod here. We know what we've been thinking since Galicia, we've been clear; we know what the sector thinks; we know what citizenship thinks; we also know what PSOE thinks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u127	...but it seems alarming to us that view of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u130	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u131	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. Of course, it is worrying that the State Government finally dares to process a piece of housing law that in all light is unconstitutional — as you said —; of what was previously warned by the various autonomous communities, even by Galicia, and has ignored it; of what was also warned by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Galician Council of Competition; and of what is also warned by different parliamentary groups in the debate of the whole of it. It is also worrying that the BNG abstained in that first vote in Congress and did not join the request to return to the Government for invasion of autonomous competences. These attitudes show who is really defending the interests of Galicia and the Galicians and the Greeks, and who stands as a profile for half political convenience and party interest to support the PSOE and Podemos biparty, and boycotting Galicia. Thank you, Counsellor, for this People's Parliamentary Group tells you that since the Council of Galicia the Constitution will be defended, if it is to defend the Statute of Self-Government, if it is to defend our exclusive competences in the field of housing and if it is to defend Galicia. Thank you, Counselor, for not allowing the attempt on the Government of Pedro Sanchez. It has the full support of this House's majority group, with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group. And we regret, once again, that we don't count on opposition groups to add up in defence of Galicia's interests. Thank you very much, Counselor. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u132	Thank you. Close this question, Environmental Advisor, Territory and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Freire, don't have the slightest doubt that we're not going back from Galicia. We can't go back. It is unconstitutional in all light this new law, the new Law of Housing; it is a matter that is uniquely and exclusively for autonomous communities. And, in fact, and despite the whole process, for the second time consecutively, it was requested by the Council of Galicia a single sectoral conference exclusively to deal with this issue with the rest of the autonomous communities, to which the minister answered that we first had to approve it and then we would do the sectoral conference; this is a dialogue that the central government has with the autonomous communities. We're at a crucial moment, over 30 lines of help. We have the Living Observatory in progress, it is involved by all sectors, European funds, the state plan... and all this is cloudy and with great concern for this Housing Law. We have opposed ourselves from the beginning, it's not a whim, it's the Constitution, and it's done behind the autonomous communities just to keep a government there in the pulpit and it doesn't crack because it's seen as an exigencies from some of the political groups that now go hand in hand. The Constitutional Court has been pronounced and has been pronounced from the scope of competence and this will have an impact, an impact of which those who are supporting it will have to realize; an impact of an economic nature, but above all an impact on those families who want a home. All this aside with a double sense: ignoring the claims of the autonomous communities and ignoring the sectoral area. So, from Galicia, as well as other autonomous communities: Andalusia, Castile and León, Madrid, Murcia, and autonomous communities governed by those who want to draw this law forward, we ask that no competition in housing matters be invaded. Making housing policy is making politics for people, but it's not hindering the development of these people. So it is true that we should be clear and transparent. And we know that this is what the PSOE thinks in this sense and the truth is that it should clarify the BNG on which side it is, and above all clarify because here it gives a message and Mr. Nestor Rego in Congress because it votes a different thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u135	...or he just doesn't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u138	Thank you. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the execution of the connection of the communication axis A 52, border of Portugal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u139	Question by Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u140	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it was in February 2009 when the Government of Pérez Touriño decided to assist in the construction of a free road to pay Rande-Celanova. From this infrastructure, the formulation of the two-party government was to develop a new act that would connect to AG-31 from Celanova to the Madalena crossing on the border with Portugal. It would thus connect the village of San Rosendo with the populations of Lower Limita and vertebrate the territory, with an investment of about 20 million euros, enabling the settlement of the population in this region. Since 2013 the Socialist Party has been demanding in various initiatives that this extension of the highway takes place. In 2020 the Galician Union announces the tendering of the contract for the drafting of the Conventional Road Improvement Project OU-540 to the Lindoso Bridge, amounting to EUR 199,488. The reform announced by the Mobility and Infrastructure Council will amount to an investment of EUR 9 million, less than half of the estimated 13 years ago. This project excludes the variants of the Verea and Band nuclei from tendering, which are key steps to ensure that this channel of communication achieves complete efficiency, as well as not only improving travel times, but also eliminating heavy traffic from the aforementioned nuclei. This budget cut represents a further deterioration in the investments needed to vertebrate the province of Ourense, especially in the region of Lower Limita, significantly limiting connectivity to northern Portugal. Today, after the arrival of the AVE to Ourense, it would probably be the infrastructure of major strategic interest to the province of Ourense. I would connect Ourense to Porto in an hour and a half, with Braga in one; with an area of influx of 3 million inhabitants, consolidating the province of Ourense as the gateway to the AVE. So they understand not only the PSdG, but also the business world, the trade sector, social groups and citizens, who showed their unanimous support for the initiative of collecting companies launched by Pablo Álvarez, neighbour of the county. On Monday, 14th of the present, the councillor presented the draft improvement on the Road, and it is evident that the Greek Government gives him a long-awaited demand. Far from expectations in all sectors, we are exposed to a poor proposal and from every point of view insufficient to meet the potentials on both sides of the border. And that's why we asked him why that project was changed when in 2013 the project was the Celanova-Portugal connectivity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u142	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, to me... I'm bewildered by the whole story that's been broadcast to you; it seems to be against that we invested more than 10 million euros in the improvement of that vertebrate between Celanova, the area of Lower Limitia and Portugal. It seems you don't want us to invest more than 10 million euros in improving road safety, improving connectivity and improving that road that would benefit, of course, many neighbors, and therefore you don't want us to invest more than 10 million euros in connecting that road to Portugal. And maybe he wants us to do the same with the Government of Spain: leave out the countryside of the Next Generation Funds, which is what the Government of Spain is doing and you shut up. And that's the reality and the hypocrisy of what I'm hearing here. They don't want us to act by equipping 13 kilometres of ahead of time and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to do with it, I would like you in the public information process to answer your claims and on 27 April you have the opportunity to make constructive and coherent allegations, consistent with your party, and consistent with all these years ago that you've had years of government as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I think what they are is uncomfortable with what Pedro Sanchez is doing and seeing if we mix a lot of things, of course. He's already smiling when I say Pedro Sánchez, so they're uncomfortable and they want to divert attention from these outrages of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to the countryside. That evidence, the question you asked, and I'm answering it. Traffic intensity of this work, 2,600 vehicles towards Portugal is 700.13,000 the neighbors of that region to connect, and that's why they don't have funds Next Generation, because it's the criterion that marks the Government of Spain not to invest in rural and just invest in cities. His mayors, silent, looking to the other side; the institutional statement of the Galician Union does not push it or want to support it even if it's a year later, they're still in time. Law of sustainable mobility, I line, did you read the draft law of sustainable mobility of the socialist Government? Economic, financial, basic partner also to make roads, with these criteria and with this draft Socialist Government law, no infrastructure work is done in rural areas. So that hypocrisy that you have, you should be something more humble. With this law there is no infrastructure in rural areas, and therefore they sin incoherence; for the Socialist Party mobility is a privilege not a right. And there's this preliminary draft law, it seems they want business with these concessions, yes by foot in shadow, like Celanova's to which you referred. [[Murmurs.]] So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u144	...don't fall for so much hypocrisy. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u145	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u146	I see her quite nervously in answering this question and quite disrespectfully with the opposition. [[Applause]] Because, look, Counselor, don't forget that we're talking about a road of competition, of autonomy and therefore it's up to the Council of Galicia to preserve it and design its improvement. [[Applause]] Besides, I was talking about the two-party planning to invest 20 million euros and you're down to 10. I want an improvement from that infrastructure. The excuse for the European funds received by Junta, up to this moment to reverse the territory, where did it invest? Not at Lower Limitia. And there were not yet the Next Generation. In the project that you present, it is palmely shown how little or no interest you have in a deeply forgotten region. You get the majority consensus — and you know it — with this proposal to consider a patch of this work with which you intend to release the right of a territory to some channels of communication proper to the 21st century. In a year when the Government is looking forward to the most expansive budgets in the history of the community, it stops considering if it is not the time to make justice with this land while opening a very attractive range of opportunities for sectors as indispensable to our future as industry, commerce and even tourism. If your department really wants to be ambitious, get to work on the instances and agents that are needed for that. It was an ambitious project that brought the AVE to the city of Ourense. You are aware of that political vision and make it easier for hundreds of thousands of people to connect to this railway revolution where much of our opportunities lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I only hear demagogy. We've come here to talk about investments with own funds on the road, an autonomous road, of course yes, but the autonomous road of the Galician Union now and also during the bipartite; during the bipartite it was not the competence of the Galician Union... but let me talk! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to answer them now. In rural, you don't invest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u149	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u150	... here we have to approach infrastructure rationally, we are also on the Natura Network, and we are working with this investment of more than 10 million euros to connect to the Portuguese border, also with the variants of Verea and Bande, which is also investment, and you will understand that to make a highway to the border of Portugal, the logic is an international agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of Portugal, and it would have been pointless to make a highway to the limit of Portugal without Portugal acting on that road; and in that case a cross-border highway is needed and therefore an agreement of both governments is needed if you want and if you plan a highway. The actions we're planning, of course, are compatible, are not exclusive to each other in relation to a highway to connect to the Portuguese border. But I say, this is the bipartite leaflet. What's here to connect between Celanova and the Portuguese border? [[Murmurs.]] That's your planning, of course, a blank leaflet and you come here... I give you the bipartite booklet, which is here, which is blank, is blank for a high-capacity, white track. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And you come here to recriminalize me for wanting to invest more than 10 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u151	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u152	...in that connection and the variants of Verea and Bande, of course I can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u153	Quiet. Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u154	...to share your reflections, there's the booklet; if you want, I'll leave it to the president to take note of what you did and to be consistent, not so incoherent, bet on the countryside, stop defending the Government of Spain, which is making an outrage to the countryside, we're seeing it in every sector. [[Applause]] And I ask you to allege the Mobility Bill and add to the Next Generation funds so that rural people can also access those Next Generation funds to improve their mobility. Of course, we do fair treatment, territorial vertebration, equal opportunities; and the Government of Spain is not leaving us to connect rural. We bet on the countryside, I'd like you to help the Galician Union too to bet on the countryside and not so much for the Government of Spain. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u155	Thank you. Please inform me that the noise that was heard was due to a movement of armchairs. That's what he said to me, I transcribe what he said to me, it's due to a motion of armchairs At the bottom, no, he didn't say it was a motion of armchairs at the bottom. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] I transcribe, I asked him, what was that noise? And he said to me, it's a few silicone movements from the bottom. [[Applause]] Well, let's go over there, come on, for jokes, it's here. Well, well. Take it easy. Question by D. Paulo Rios Santome of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Question by Mr Paulo Ríos Santôme and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken at Junta de Galicia to reverse the precarious employment situation of the accompanying people in the school transport service on the lines granted to the Monbus company in the district of Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I mean, I'm surprised that the People's Party, the party that supports the Government of the United States of Galicia has to use questions from the Government to talk about the BNG; that is that we're doing something good and already feeling nervous about that bench. [[Applause]] But, well, I'm going to the subject. Good afternoon, Counsellor, there is a lot in this same Chamber we are calling for the presence of the Councillor for Infrastructure and Mobility of the Galician Union to be aware, to also bring to the public debate the irregularities and non-compliances of public contracts by the Monbus business group in relation to the public transport service in our country. This situation is in a context in which the Galician Union is allowing, by action or by default, the consolidation of the monopoly of this business group and the establishment of precariousness in the transport service, which mainly affects three sectors of our society: users and users — at first — small and medium-sized enterprises, and workers of the business group itself. Today we've been talking about this last group, specifically about the systematic violation of the working conditions and rights of the accompanying people in the school transport service. At this same plenary session and at the previous session we talked long and hard about the rights and needs of the women of Greece, we talked about a completely feminized sector where the practice of all school transport attendants are women who are seeing, on the one hand, the minimum requirements imposed on transport contracts and, on the other hand, the conditions offered by the company when competing with these contracts. The workers who accompany the school transport service of the districts of Ferrol and the Marines are complaining that the minimum hours set in the nails are not met, and many of them have half an hour's work. Neither do the types and modalities of recruitment, which were fixed with the previous company and, after the subrogation, they saw their contracts converted to temporary, when the company's offer was 100% of the indefinite contracts for these workers. And if there have been few of these failures, these same workers are seeing how long a month there are delays in the collection of their little payrolls, workers to whom the Monbus group does not apply the collective agreement of the transport of travellers, but is paying them on the basis of the minimum interprofessional wages. Our question — or some — is, Counsellor, why is it that the Galician Union is allowing a large business group to continue to beat one of the most battered, most precarious sectors in our society? In the absence of solutions from Monbus and Junta, workers have already announced mobilizations on the following dates, and here are press cuts: "Accompanying school buses in Betanzos and Ferrol warn about protests", "Protests from the staff accompanying school transport", "Accompanying school transport from Ferrol and Betanzos denounce the job precariousness and failure of Monbus with the service", "The school transport service announces mobilizations in March". Different means, different times this same year, no solutions. In the face of the lack of solutions — as I said — they are already trying to mobilize themselves. And the fundamental question that we're going to ask is whether you're going to put the Joint aside of the axes and the precarious ones or once again you're going to put aside who's precariously, incompliant and deceptively for their economic interests
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u158	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's get to the point, as you said. You talk about irregularities, you talk about precarious work, you talk about working rights, I think you have a certain confusion. This is the Galician Parliament, whose body resolves the labour disputes between a company and a worker, in the hypothetical case that they exist, that I will not discuss whether or not they exist, but you certainly confuse clearly. I say because, I think that, if you or the people who have competences, sorry, who have or are suffering from this situation, obviously, you have to raise the complaints where it belongs, which is at the Labour Inspectorate, right? I think that's absolutely indisputable. The truth is that it is always important and it is always good to talk about certain facts and facts, and the fact is that Galicia is undoubtedly the autonomous community of Spain that most resources are devoted to school transport; in fact, with 5% of the school population, we devote around 22% of the expenditure of the Spanish group. One thing is that in Galicia we have 82,000 children who every day rise up in a school transport at the door of their home or very close and go to the school center, about 780 educational centers. Another certainty is that the school transport system is, let's say, divided between the Education Council, around 47% of the routes, and the Mobility Council, around 53% of the routes. And another certainty is that we have just proposed or we have been able to solve the new school contracts, the new school transport contracts, which we have proposed in 57 dowrys, which reach 424 centers. Another certainty is that, within these contracts, of these last contracts which are resolved, except one, at present, there are some nails, and those nails give all guarantees to the workers and the workers of school transport. And another certainty is that in May 2021 this council, together with the three majority unions, was able to sign an agreement where the characteristics of transport contracts between companies and their employees were fixed. [[Workers', UXT and CIG commissions]] And another certainty is that also in that May agreement a commission was created to follow up transport contracts, where, in the hypothetical case of any complaint to the Education Council, this complaint would be transmitted to those responsible for ensuring and ensuring compliance with the agreements; so far none has arrived at the Education Council. So, the truth is, if we keep talking about certainties, we see that we have the working conditions of the people who perform this service, we think you're covered. Can there be irregularities? Yes, but you will have to report them to the competent body. We didn't argue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u160	In any case, try to move a purely labour issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u161	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u162	...professional to a purely political question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u163	Thank you. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, once again an exercise of balloons out there or, as it is said on my land, "loans to the blind", but here the problem is that it's very good what warrants guarantee, in this case two hours of minimum work for school transport attendants; the problem is that they're not doing that job, but neither the duties of the Board of Education, but not the offers that companies make them earn points to get these bids. So, who does the Monbus group work for? For Junta, it's a public service at the end, or it's the Junta that works for Monbus, maybe they're confused there. [[Applause]] So who should watch for the fulfilment of these contracts, who should watch for the fulfilment of these prayers, who should do the work of inspection, control and sanctions if necessary? Together, together, and there's no other. And there are the workers of Ferrol and Betanzos in the press, day if not day, announcing mobilizations. The union itself has filed complaints and complaints in this regard. How can you say there is nothing? How can you say you're watching for the fulfillment of these nails and offers when you're not inspected, when you're not in control? That's the big problem. You can, and you know it perfectly, just as I know it. The other day I met with a director of a teaching center and he said, "less bad than I have to be a director, less bad than I still don't have public transportation." Because they tell you, the ANPAs, the directions, that today is the company that looks when they go in and when the kids don't get into school, why? Because there is a duality of vehicles that are used on regular lines, on school transport lines, which is completely illegal, as you know; it is something that workers and school workers also report that there are not enough vehicles or drivers, that there are late, that there are delays, that you have to go at all speed with the children and the children there because you have to keep hours to allow this duplication. They're gonna keep working for Junta...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u166	...sorry! The Monbus?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u168	Mr. honourable Member, you do throw balloons in your tracks, in your veins or in your tracks, as you prefer, because here saying that a director of an educational center says that "less bad there's no school transportation" and then saying that, as you talked to him, you know how school transportation works someone who doesn't have it, because it's certainly to throw the ball in the tracks. But, well, it's okay because you tell me here that what I repeated to him. [[Applause]] There is a follow-up commission that was created with an agreement in May 2021 with the three union forces. At the Education Council there was no complaint, it doesn't mean there aren't, it doesn't mean there's problems, there's obviously there's problems with them, how there's no problem with time adjustments in school transport if every day 82,000 children leave their home, 3,000 school routes leave their home, and we provide an absolutely model service, with problems? Of course there are problems, but it's 82,000 children who leave their home every day and go to school. There are problems, of course. Now, there's also certainty, and I think I'm talking about certainty. Look, what allowed this agreement that we signed in 2021 with three unions, I insist, one of them was in the IGC? Yeah, look, what made it possible?: that there is greater job stability for professionals, something that is nothing less than those hired directly with companies and subcontractors. That also allowed us?: these companies generate specific training for workers. That you allowed us?: to have an agreement where, when there is a single complaint or a letter to refer to the Education Council, this would put it in the knowledge of the Labour Inspectorate, who has to address these issues. What do you think, too?: with regard to timetables, taking into account that school transport begins very early in most cases. What's also possible?: that there are a minimum number of hours for these workers, around two hours; it must be taken into account that it is a service and a transport because it is very peculiar and a very peculiar job. What has made it possible for this agreement as well?: that the wages meet with the one set out in the collective agreements and in the framework agreement of the Greek 17th of 2021, which was nothing less, as is nothing less than the increase of 34.6% in the concept of Social Security for these workers. From then on, I, of course, have a different perception and that they confuse Parliament with the Labour Inspectorate. Obviously, when there is a failure of a company with a professional and a worker, you have to go along the corresponding line, which you cannot, as you try to move here, is a political problem of a question that is purely labor or professional within a company and its employees. If we had recorded in the Education Council of some problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u170	...of which you denounce here, we have an obligation to transfer it to the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u171	Thank you, Counselor; the subject is clear. That's it. Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. It's here. [[Applause]] Question by Daniel Castro García and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the measures necessary to improve public health in the region of the Navy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u172	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you can see, the Navy's health here in Parliament, and as there's always enough cliché, because we're going to try to do it in a more dialogue, more respectable and better way after all. To begin with and to see, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we're going to thank all those infrastructures, energy improvements, architectural improvements they've made over the Marine Hospital. Really, thank you very much, and we've already said it before you can say it. Then I also wanted to apologize for not having studied medicine or nursing, because here it has been said many times that, if you're not a healthcare professional, you'll obviously know how to talk about health care. So, first of all, I apologize in advance. But fortunately I can read, fortunately I can listen and fortunately because I'm still with the people who have certain problems from the Navy and claim them. And after that, we can make a little assessment of how marine health goes, after these debates over these months and over these years. And surprisingly, unfortunately, it didn't change anything. The collapse in the hospital continues to be absolute, daily; the casualties continue unmet, the squares that will be filled continue unmet, the vacations continue unmet; the drifts to Lugo continue to occur, the same happens in health centers; and what is worse is that what you yourself vote for, what you yourself undertake to improve don't; and how they say to show you a button because we're going to see it here. They voted in favour of recovering HADO-palliative service in all the municipalities of the health district; to this day, they still only offer four of fourteen. You voted in favour of covering the squares with which the radiology service counted, a total of five, and today, even today, there is only one, usually two days ago and the days we have this extreme luck that another worker from the rest of the province comes because there are three. Three out of five at most and sometimes counted. They voted in favour of doing the entire breast cancer screening process in the Navy without any derivation to Lugo. This process ended a few days ago and until the last day it continued to be led to Lugo. More samples also of the collapse of what I was talking about before: the ultrasound waiting list is over a year old, and today there are people who have been waiting for an ultrasound since August 2020, which is said soon, from August 2020 to make an ultrasound. And the sad thing is that I could talk, keep talking -- I wish I had the time the president had on yesterday -- unfortunately about evas, evas and you were there in marine health, and on top of the public health of a minimum quality. The question we've recorded is whether they're willing to make an improvement in the public health of the Navy that involves more budgeting, more personnel, more services; but, also seeing that they do not fulfill what they themselves promise, for I would rather ask them if they are fully aware of this reality and at least if they are willing or willing to recognize it, which would already be a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u173	Thank you, Mr. Castro. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u174	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Castro, we are speaking in fact again in this Parliament about the health care of the Navy, and I will answer at the outset the question you have raised. From the very first moment, if we're willing to have more budget, more staff and more services in the marine health area and in all districts. And that's right, because, first of all, for years, more resources have been used to make patients and professionals more infrastructures available, and you also know that you are voting for more staff, especially in connection with primary care. [[Applause]] In the last answer I gave in this plenary to a question related to the Marine Hospital, it highlighted the typology and characteristics of this hospital, which, by definition, is much more like a hospital of a higher category. And that's so much for the number of people he serves, 65,000 citizens, as well as the services and infrastructure that have been incorporated into the Marine Hospital, far away from the dismantling of comarcal hospitals you've been charged with. The reality is that in recent years services are more and better, and the latest investments in the reform and expansion of the centre are the realization of the bet on having a better and better center. As for services, without reiterating the enumeration of all those who have been incorporated in these years, if I would like to highlight the great step I have taken for oncological patients that they were treated in the Marine Hospital without moving to Lugo, or the newly created retina unit or cervical pathology unit. The organization of the health areas, as well as the specific structure and operation of the Navy, in this case, respond to the objective of ensuring the same accessibility of care quality to all, regardless of where the patient lives. So there are specialties, such as neurosurgery or hemodynamics, that are treated in Lugo for matters of expertise or professional specialization, or yet it is also true that the Navy is the only center that assumes, for example, coloprotological surgeries derived from colon cancer. And it's not true, Mr. Castro, that we have become more and more patients to Lugo, in fact it's totally false. The only patients who had to be transferred to HULA as a result of exceptional circumstances and with the sole aim of not compromising health care in the Navy were patients at ICU shelter during the last wave of the pandemic. By the way, just as they were derived from Lugo from the Ferrol hospital. You use the same arguments over and over again, such as the theory of the terrible working conditions that we offer to professionals, which, in your opinion, justifies the shortage of specialists. You know very well that the specialists that we are in deficit are not for that reason, but it is true that both from the direction of the center and the health area always seeks to provide greater stability for all specialists who are counted on, offering, for example, interintences, and making a specific follow-up of each specialty. What we're going to do is invest another 15 million more to those 15 that have already been added, although it doesn't seem very much to you, and, as you should know, we're going to incorporate a magnetic resonance into the public hospital of the Navy this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u175	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u176	Thank you again, President. Well, it says they're willing, it's already a step, but what happens every day today, yesterday and tomorrow is that, for example, Monday itself: an oncoholic patient arrives at Burela Hospital, not for oncoholic reasons but for other kinds of illnesses, and he leaves the hospital six hours later without being cared for. They pick him up at 11 p.m. and he goes to his house at 5 p.m. without being taken care of, why? because he comes in emergency personnel and says, "We're on top in emergencies and we can't take care of you." That's reality, day yes and day too. [[Applause]] So, the same thing I can tell you honestly, the same thing I can tell you about those people who are still waiting for an ultrasound of 2020, because you can sell this, but you're going to tell those people that an ultrasound can't be done since 2020, are you lying? I don't think they're lying. Are you going to tell this patient — that it's not an isolated case, not much less — that he's lying, that the Marine Hospital works perfectly? You're going to tell the hospital worker that she can't handle it because she's on top of it, because in emergencies they don't give any more, because they're collapsed, what are you lying about? Do you all lie less to Join? We're all fools and fools except Xunta, I suppose? [[Applause]] And then I get that from the doctors, maybe there's a little lack of doctors and they'll look for more attention, more workers and primary care workers, I think very well. But, of course, then I imagine the conversation they can have from the council office to potential workers. Doctor or doctor, who may be working in Ireland or France, can you come to the Navy, where perhaps one afternoon you have to be the only doctor to care for a village of at least 16,000 inhabitants like Livestock at least? Do you feel like coming, perhaps, to San Cibrao where is half the plant? You want to go to Ribadeo, where more than a room is left? Maybe they say no, maybe something has to do with the absence of doctors and doctors, and that's why the Navy's health is still going on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u177	Thank you, Mr. Castro. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u178	Thank you. In the area of primary care you know that we are facing a complex situation at the national level, in which, among other things, there is an important deficit of professionals, more insidious in the peripheral territories. But since Galician union, we have put action in place and you know it, but they stop using this dismantling argument, they don't stop doing it in both comarcas and primary care. And far from that, today we have a new proof of that insistence. It's funny that the BNG in Madrid recognizes in a pact with the left-wing groups that the primary has a problem at the national level, but here seems to be the problem of this advisor or President Feijóo. But it turns out, in fact, that you recognize that there is a problem at the national level, also understanding that in the communities governed by your friends, Mr Castro, the same thing happens. It's that it's even more remarkable than the pact that, while here you say we dismantled the first one by devoting 30% of the budget of the primary care council in Madrid, you only ask 25% of that budget. From the Health Council, in addition to the need to maintain and increase primary investment above what the Block considers, we believe we need to take other measures. In fact, you have been able to claim in that pact the request of this very Parliament for the establishment of the emergency specialty, which is a question on which the Central Government does not answer to the reasons despite the unanimity of the whole field of health. They also did not propose in that covenant the creation of more MIR squares primarily for the primary in order to be able to hire more professionals in the future or even this year. And neither did you formulate a need for flexibility in the accreditation of training squares or the improvement of the training programme. You know that in Galicia we have taken numerous steps to improve the organization of primary care and optimize resources; however, they prefer to refer to punctual situations as you have just commented on in Viveiro on 7 January, Mr. Castro. The right - I say - is that Lugo's health area, like other areas, does everything possible to fill the existing vacancies; however, the difficulties are certain to continue. For this reason, the next offer of new professional squares of optional primary care specialist will include vacancies of difficult coverage of the Marine Townships, that is, with their vote against. Therefore, Mr. Castro, more budgets, more staff and more services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u179	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members of the G.P. Galician folklore, about the balance that joins her on her dependent attention system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u180	Good afternoon, Counselor. Anyone who has heard the speech of the opposition over the past few years could conclude that Galicia is an autonomous community governed by a group of disgruntled disgruntled people who are committed to preventing the advance of the times and obsessed especially by sinking the potential beneficiaries of the Dependency Act into disrepute. It is such the effort of the opposition to reiterate this message about the alleged disillusionment of the Union, that I must confess that I myself was surprised when on January 21st you found out the figure reached by Galicia in terms of dependency: 65,000 dependents attended, 65,000. This figure may not in itself cause a background impact on public opinion, but I think if it's placed in the right context, at least it lets us know who's telling the truth and who's missing it when we talk about dependence in Galicia. One of the data that can be useful to put into context the work of the Feijóo Government in this matter is to know the number of dependent people who attended in Galicia when the bipartite, PSOE-BNG, handed over the witness, unless someone corrects me, turned to 15,000. Unless the non-permanents intend to deny mathematical reality, it seems clear that we must conclude that more than 50,000 new beneficiaries were incorporated during the successive governments of Alberto Núñez Feijóo to reach the current record number of 65,000 dependents attended. They appear to be worthy of consideration and it does not seem easy to achieve this goal. Because it's important to remember that all of this has come about despite the legal forecasts that the Government of the State has financed 50% of the Dependency Act. Despite having to assume the multimillionaire puppet that left the self-proclaimed excellent managers of the left of the gala. Despite having fewer resources, up to 2,000 million less per year for most of these 13 years. Despite having to manage public resources during the biggest financial crisis in our recent history. Despite having to manage, almost without a continuity solution, an unprecedented global health pandemic. And I don't want to forget an essential element that has remained constant and unchanging during these 13 years of government, even though I don't count on the support of the Greek opposition for a single minute of all that time, they haven't been, they're not, they're not, they're not expected. Therefore, Counsellor, it is not easy to understand how, in spite of all these difficulties, Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with a better ratio of coverage of Spain in relation to dependency, and so we want you to make a balance on the dependency care system in Galicia so that we can all distinguish the size of the ball or, if you prefer, the data from the cliffs. We wait for the data. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u181	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u182	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mr Pazos, I really am glad that you bring this plenary of the Galician Parliament a question that is very necessary in our community: how to continue to push and how to continue improving the system of dependency care, which has always been and will always be one of the pillars and one of the principles in which we will continue to work from the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] The great progress that Galicia has made over the past 13 years, you can explain very well — as you say — with figures. Since 2009 Galicia has multiplied by four, the number of dependents attended, from 15,000 attended by the year 2009 to 65,400 dependents attended by us today. We've doubled the number of publicly funded squares in residences, from 5,500 to more than 13,000, and we're going to add, in addition, 2,000 more public squares in this legislation. We created the largest houses we all know in our country to care for the older people who worked so hard for Galicia, which we have today and we want to close this year 2022 with 120 open houses in full operation. We have historically strengthened the Home Help Service by investing more than 100 million euros this year; we have strengthened the House Dinner Service, where we already have more than 1,700 dependent people who receive a healthy menu and a balanced menu every day. And we're going to continue to advance in teleassistation so that all the older people who live alone feel safe in their own home. Ladies and gentlemen, these newly appointed resources have allowed us to achieve record coverage in Galicia. Galicia is currently Spain's second autonomous community with a higher percentage of dependents being cared for, 95% of those with recognized dependence are currently receiving their benefit or service, nine points above the national average. But of course we need to continue to improve and continue to strengthen our services. That's why we put in place a plan of shock at the attention of the dependency, to reduce half the waiting times and also to reduce by half the number of sheets you have to cover a person when you ask for the dependency. We're going to continue to bring more help and more services to all those older people who have a degree of dependence. Without a doubt, with this data, it is shown that Galicia is moving forward, and Galicia is moving forward and doing so with all its social strength because for this government people are the first. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u184	Thank you, Counselor. If I understood correctly, Galicia is the second autonomous community with a higher percentage of people attended, nine points above the national average, quadrupled the number of dependents attended, duplicated the higher-ranking residential squares with public funds, state leaders in the SAF; recently there were improvements in this House's Dinner Program to prevent unwanted loneliness. But despite all this, the opposition claims that we are not committed to dependence. I'm sure everything can be improved and attention to dependency as well. Because besides improving public services is a work that never ends, there are always new challenges to address, there are always new improvements to implement. You, by the way, have already put forward some of those that are about to come. But that reality shouldn't hide another unquestionable fact, you can't achieve the figures you've reported without a firm commitment from the Social Policy Council. The opposition tends to measure commitment in good intentions, but we prefer it in budgetary terms, and perhaps in its reply it can provide us with data on it. You don't care what they say, Counselor. In any case, I find it more difficult to know that every day there are more of the yellows and the yellows that open their eyes to reality. As it shows today, this picture, it's very interesting, is a picture of the IGC manifesting itself in front of a council ruled by the BNG protesting the privatization of municipal social services. As you see, reality is stubborn, always imposed and ends up appearing, even in the most unsuspected people and organizations. Who was going to tell me that the IGC in this House was going to accept advice from me. In any case, congratulations, counsellor, by far advancing. He has the support of this group for all that remains to be done and may not have the support of the opposition, but don't forget that he has confidence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u185	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u186	...most of the Galicians and Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u187	Close the question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u188	Thank you, President. Mr. Pazos, Galicia currently spends more than 430 million euros on dependency attention, and although, as we all know, the central government has demonstrated its purpose of amending, the progress is still very insufficient, because today two thirds of the total dependency bill is still supported by the funds of the Galician Union, this bill is still maintained with the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. In our community, the Dependency Law is not yet being complied with and there is still much to be done and much to move forward. But what does this mean? It means that the Central Government has to invest 150 million euros more each year to comply with the Dependency Act. Because, as they continue to fail, they continue to increase the debt that the Central Government has pending with Galicia and that since 2009 it has risen to more than EUR 1 billion in debt on the invoice of all dependents. But even so, the Galician Union has a strong commitment to older people and people with disabilities. That's why today we've quadrupled the number of dependents taken care of. But in order for these resources to reach more and more older people and more people with disabilities, we need — as I said — the commitment of the other institutions, with the commitment of the Greek councils to run all those hours of the Home Help Service they have assigned and, of course, we also wish the Central Government to comply once and for all with that Dependency Act, that 50% State/50% autonomous community funding. Ladies and gentlemen, we have improved the resources I mentioned earlier and have drawn up a dependent shock plan, but, no doubt, all these plans represent the greatest reform of the dependent system in Galicia since its creation. Improving attention to dependency is not only one of the main objectives of the Government of Galicia, but it must always be a priority for the future of Galicia. All this and much more is what the dependent Greeks and the Greeks deserve, but also that unconditional support for their families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u189	Thank you, Counselor. Da Rosana Pérez Fernández, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the critical situation in which the Welsh fishing fleet finds itself
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u190	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in 2021, the price of the fishing gas oil remained at sea all year round. In November, the Welsh fishing fleet had already given the alarm voice over prices that grew to about 60% in 2021, placing the liter in 62 cents and without the Board moving a finger to alleviate that increase. By this time and since 2020, long before any war conflict in Europe, it had already weighed on the fleet the WTO threat of banning tax exemptions from fishing fuels. And what is worse, the European Union itself, while defending those exemptions in the WTO, was preparing measures to end subsidies to fossil fuels as a result of the European Green Pact and to eliminate the exemption from oil tax than the fleet benefits. The European Commission envisages as a priority the taxation of fuel in its Fit for 55 plan, which would be charged from 2023 to a minimum of 3 cents per litre. In this regard, and while you were here saying that you were drawing up reports to demonstrate the serious impact these measures would have on more than 4,200 Welsh vessels, your colleague, the Environment Adviser, declared in September before the meeting of the Environmental Policy Consultative Council for Community Affairs, the transcendence of the Fit for 55 which, according to her, assumes that for the first time European legislation goes before the technology itself. It would be all right, Counselor, if we could clarify which of the two minds: the Environmental Adviser or you. And now, in the lurch of prices and after more than a year without taking a single measure, evading their own skills and wanting to cover up their own irresponsibility, they keep getting as close as they can: throwing balloons out. In today's session we saw several examples. In 2022, the rise in the fishing fuel is over 107%, and in the last 15 days it has passed from 0.67 to 1.16 euros. Even so, the inaction of the State Government and of the Union is gruesome. The Russian invasion of Ukraine began a month ago and, while you continue in a permanent electoral campaign, the Welsh fleet is tied to the port without seeing today the effectiveness of any of those measures that they say they have taken, and stopped a president of the U.S.U.U. totally absent, put on the candidate suit the president of an unmanned People's Party and with the only concern to settle in Madrid's freedom. In addition to propaganda, Madam Counsellor, what concrete actions are going to take to alleviate the effects that the price of fishing gas is already rising, the loss of income in the sector, the mooring of the fleet and more than foreseeable loss of jobs in fishing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Reply by the sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u192	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pérez, the first thing I want to do is take advantage of my first words to thank you for joining the concern of the maritime-fishing sector and the delicate situation you are living in right now. I have to tell you that since we got to the government, we're working for and for the defense of this sector. Thus, since 2016 more than EUR 30 million has already been allocated to the transformer sector for improvements in energy efficiency, and about EUR 2 million for the aid of engine change and energy efficiency as well as for the fleet. I mean, none of the files submitted that had met the requirements required by the current legislation had failed to meet. And in particular with regard to your question, I have to say that where you say "you're planning" I have to say, "we're doing it," because we've been working on the measures for days and moving forward so that the sector can benefit them as soon as possible. From this I have to tell you that we have already met, both with the fisheries sector and with the representatives of the processing and marketing industry, and that these meetings have issued the measures that the sector itself has requested, and these measures are already in progress, those that have to do with the Union, and we have also made public the communication to the other administrative sectors, which are being made to implement these requests as quickly as possible. Within which we are already in progress, I must remind you that at last week's board of directors we agreed and we approved the agreement to make a temporary exemption from port charges 100% in at least two months and, if this situation is not resolved, that measure will be extended as long as it takes. It is also going to speed up the flow of aid, as we have done during the cod pandemic. Moreover, the sector has asked us for further measures which have already been demanded of the Central Government and the European Union. Among them are the generation of support that leads to lower fuel prices, as other countries have done; or actions that lead to similar results, the granting of de minimis aid — we have also called for an increase in de minimis because EUR 30,000 is not available at all; the inter-annual flexibility in fishing quotas for the fleet to take advantage of the coming year the possibilities of catch which cannot be carried out this year; and, in any case and regardless of the fact that an exceptional framework of European funds is available, whose processing is usually slow, we believe that the Central Government must take immediate steps to support the marine-fishing sector in the face of the intensification of gas oil and transport. We cannot wait until 29 March, because that date we understand that it will be too late for many companies. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u193	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u194	Counsellor, paraphrasing Mrs. Rosa Quintana, I will not allow you to tell us that we are not worried. We've been worried for a long time, and you, Counselor, too. What they weren't even busy. [[Applause]] The bonus of the port rates announced is not yet reflected in the Official Journal of Galicia. And there was no exceptional situation on the part of the German Government. You know that in the autonomous communities, there's a lot of fuel taxes left, so it's been a long time since they should have taken action and stopped claiming them, but instead acting. And real measures, Counsellor, not only by autobombs and headlines such as those taken to alleviate the effects of the pandemic on the seafood sector on foot. There were some aids, an budget of €5,200,000, and the aid granted do you know how long they were, Counsellor? I insist, EUR 5,200,000. They finally granted 140,000 euros; 1,224 applications submitted and 1,034 rejected applications. They're worried! [[Applause]] They buy, Counsellor, urgent measures of economic compensation that stem the bindings that are already being produced and, above all, for the fleets that have already begun the campaign. Let them stop campaigning, Madam Counsellor, and stop being opposed to the opposition and the government of the state, for now it is you who are the government and you are the one who is responsible for taking action. Tomas, they exercise in the German Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pérez, don't get nervous. You paraphrase me and say we're worried but not busy, but it's quite the opposite. [[Applause]] Look, I only hope that the only measure you've taken, which is that demonstration you've announced on April 3, has enough echo and hear it from you your friends in Brussels, to answer how they have to respond. Because I'm going to tell you something, you already said it. I've been worried about this for a long time, and we've done the reports, and we've gone to Brussels and we've gone to Geneva, and we've already defended our sector. What are you doing? I remind you that on 22 March the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries was voted on to give its opinion on the reform of the directive on tax payments for fuels. What voted for the group you're integrated into? On the contrary, ma'am. I mean, the Galician Nationalist Block has been positioned against a tax bonus. [[Applause]] That's the reality. That's how you help the sector. You were talking about that environmental advisor and me, one of the two lies. None. The Galician Union has a unique position and the Galician Union defends both the Environment Adviser and the one it subscribes to Brussels, and here and here and in Madrid and where necessary, which it is also necessary that the fleet bet on changing energy in order to achieve the least possible impact on climate change. And we're willing to do it, but we have to leave time so that we can do the studies enough to see what kind of fuel is the best, what kind of ship we have to design and what help you can arbitrate so that the fleet can change both the engines and the fuels as well as the ships. And that's what we're working on, and that's what the Environment Advisor does as well. On the other hand, the group in which you are part of the European Union — he has given you the exact details —... No, it's not opposition to the opposition, it's that you say something here... they say something here... but then they do everything possible so that what we defend here can't be done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Because, look, if you want to support yourself, you can support from the position and from the Government, they can support and not take measures like this: "The European Union will set up a binding legislative framework to monitor and report on the progress of member states in the elimination of fossil fuel subsidies. It must also set a deadline for cutting all public aid and these sources of energy harmful to the environment." The promoter of this project is Mrs Grace O’Sullivan, from the Green Group of Brussels, where the Nationalist Block Galego, Left Republican and En-Comú Podam is integrated, that is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I already tell you, in any case, the measures that the sector itself has asked of us to join Galicia are in progress. You know that the exemptions from port charges are passed in a law, so you can't publish in the Official Journal of Galicia any order that contradicts a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u198	But don't worry that the measures will be taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u199	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u200	...and the bills won't be paid in the meantime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-23-DSPG075.u201	Thank you. [[Applause]] It ends here the Full. Good afternoon, everyone.
