ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u1	Good morning. Let's resume the session. Before starting the fifth point of the day, I wanted to greet the students of 1st and 2nd bachelor's degree from the IES Puga Ramón, of the Coruña. Welcome to Parliament for being with us today, and also to all the guests who are in the rostrum. And we've already started with the fifth item on the agenda, which is the questions for oral response by the president of the board. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the G. P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the Government's strategic lines for the development of wind energy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u2	Whenever you want, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I also greet the students of this school in the Coruña and its teacher. Mr. President of the Galician Union, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, today I do not bring graphics, because, for graph, the situation of his party. We bring to this Parliament the wind policy of the Galician Union to put on the table the failure of planning, the lack of effectiveness and the lack of transparency of the political model of the People's Party. This is causing legal insecurity for all the agents involved, which reveals to us that their model is neither guarantor nor known nor planned. There is legal insecurity on the part of the proponents of the wind farms, there is legal insecurity on the part of landowners, we have obsolete regulations, which causes us to be infringing our resources and, ultimately, the chaotic current regulatory framework was successively patched continuously, confirming the failure of its model, which is based on bandages and improvisations. Because Junta is not working on a policy framework that eliminates all these irregularities, and most importantly, because the Galician Union has tens and dozens of wind farms pending authorization, according to data from the Galician Wind Observatory. The Board, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, is not fulfilling its competences in facilitating wind development. They're not effective, they're not transparent, they're not guaranteed. Yes, 18 months have been self-induced, giving a moratorium to themselves; a year and a half in which no new applications are admitted. It is incredible, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, that after all this decision for years and years, we are still allowed to introduce by law the ban on projects for the year and a half. And I sincerely ask you not to go to the classical excuse that the evil wind management is the fault of the government of the Bipartite. After 13 years in front of the Galician Union, it does not blame its inefficient management in wind politics for a political formation that ruled six years in front of thirty-four leading the People's Party in front of the Galician Union. You can't blame this one hundred percent of the problems in Galicia over the last forty years, because then the question is, what did you do during those thirty-four years? Mr. President, sit down and talk to the agents involved, establish a clear model in Galicia. If you want our collaboration to work on a wind model that generates a smaller environmental, ecological and social impact, let's look for an agreement. If you want the rural environment and the people who live there and their economic activity to be protected, let's look for an agreement. If you want a wind model that has the greatest benefit to communities, let's look for an agreement. If you want to ultimately improve the living and working conditions of the most vulnerable people who live around them, let's look for an agreement. I, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, reiterate our willingness to collaborate on those agreements, because they are country agreements, but what I care about is whether you are at this moment for that or not. I want to know if I have before the president of the Galician Union or the possible new spokesperson of the People's Party, who is thinking more about solving internal problems of his party than the real problems of Greek citizenship. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u4	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very glad that the Galician civil society can come to the House, in this case the future of Galicia, the boys and girls of the Puga Ramón Institute, of the city of Coruña. I greet you. Mr. Álvarez, we're going to do and we're still doing what we're trying to do to most of the responsible governments that Galicia has: to put in value one of the key energy sectors of the autonomous community. According to the Galician Wind Association, which you quote, this sector provided 7,000 jobs in 2020. We bill more than 580 million euros, and we raise more than 130 million euros a year. By the way, Your Honor, of these 130 million euros a year, more than 23 million are the result of the wind canon; wind canon was realized by this parliamentary group over ten years ago, which I assumed for the Welsh municipal archives over 230 million euros of revenue. We hope that these figures will continue to be better in the future, and that's why we are proposing, first of all, an orderly planning. Schedule is to have a template; not to schedule is an absence of a template. Planning assumes legal security; that is, where parks can be established, where parks can be installed, what conditions they have to meet and, of course, the priority of the compatibility of wind energy with the rest of Galicia's agricultural and forestry uses. What surprises me is that you ask me about our model. Believe your match that has no model. And he has no model, Your Honor, because the situation of energy, the price of energy, the price of gas is setting them up and exploding the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, and in a more implicit and intense way, even the economy of homes. So you're asking me here a model before the obvious accreditation that we're in an unprecedented energy crisis in Spain is always a rhetorical question. But I'm going on, Your Honor. I just figured out that you abandon the stop model to the windmills of your nationalist partners. You come here to tell me that we need more wind energy, that we need to urgently process wind farms and that they want to forget about nationalist proposals, when you support them in various municipalities in Galicia, and they persist. Well, that's a proposal. I ask you from now on, Your Honor, that socialist mayors stop encouraging platforms against wind farms in their municipalities. I formally ask for it. Your Honor, we have a model, of course. Tell you we made a moratorium. How are we not going to make a moratorium, Your Honor, if we had 11,000 wind megawatts requested when in Galicia there are only 3,000 installed? The environment of the autonomous community must be preserved. So yes to the moratorium for a year and a half. We made a new limitation of air carriers: more distant from the population nuclei in those processes that start from the entry into force of the law. You know what, Your Honor? 77.5% of the territory of Galicia is protected, and wind farms cannot be installed there. And you know something else? We had to stop 4,000 megawatts, which the Government of Spain was absolutely frivolously processing in the autonomous community against the wind plans approved by the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u7	Your Honor, I am very glad to hear your proposal. If you want a pact for the exploitation of the natural resources of the autonomous community, you have the tender hand of this government. If you really want to talk seriously about the coherent processing, the respectful processing, the processing of the law, the processing of the places where wind farms can be installed, if you really want to make a policy that seeks Galician energy autonomy, the climate balance of the autonomous community, you have the government's tending hand. We've proposed it for several months, and they've always voted not at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u9	If they are now beginning to vote on the common sense, the interests of Galicia and the rationality of the Greek energy system, welcome, Your Honor, to a possible agreement, and I hope that consensus agreement for an energy policy in the autonomous community will be reached. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a problem here with the clock. The vice president will take care of it. The problem is to see how you can know time. Trust us. There's no other way. [[Murmurs.]] Replica from the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez. It's two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u11	Thank you again, Mr. President Mr President, I trust you to the extent that you trust me. We have absolutely no problem. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, what is the wind model of the People's Party? Because you ask me about the wind model of the Socialist Party of Galicia, but it turns out that who rules, who has the ability to make decisions, is you; it's you for 13 years, and the reality is what you are. This parliamentary group does not transfer any reality other than what exists: the complaints of the promoters, the complaints of the owners; the complaints, ultimately, of all sectors concerned with the wind development of this autonomous community. We're late, Mr. President, and you know that. We should have passed the planning phase by now, and we should be today at the time of execution. I repeat, you feel like talking to the sectors involved. We agree with a new wind model for Galicia that develops a plan of orderly, respectful and socially just growth with the wind sector; a plan, ultimately, that puts us at the vanguard in the use of renewable energies, a plan that allows us to put ourselves also in the vanguard in the possibility of implementing other energy uses in the future, placing our own autonomous community within the objectives of strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation, as is the roadmap of renewable hydrogen. A few days ago, in that crisis where you are immersed, a former president of the State Government spoke of Ukraine. I'm not going to talk about Ukraine to make black humor, because quite dramatic is the international situation, but obviously that international situation has an impact on the price of energy. And you — and all Europe — understand that as president of an autonomous government, you are involved in reducing the energy dependence of our country from external sources. Mr. Feijóo, I'm worried if you want to work for Galicia. I'm concerned that you have sometimes used the Council of the Galician Council to discuss the problems of the People's Party, which you have employed an act of the Middle Rural that was already called to speak of the problems of the People's Party. I'm concerned that he's more attuned to the problems of his party than the problems of Galicia right now, and this is one of the most serious. It seems — and I have nothing to say — that you are applying as a spokesperson for the People's Party, because it seems that happened from that "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" and, for the fourth time, Galicia, Mr. Balsairo, to "Madrid, Madrid, Madrid". Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, I am concerned that you, finally, have abandoned the Conxo oak by a Madron. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u12	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, you must admit that you speak much more about Madrid than I do. In any case, he seems to be interested in that matter. [[Applause]] I'm here, Your Honor. You'll understand that, after 16 years of talking about Madrid, we're a little bored about it. By the way, those who sat there next to you are the ones who are now in Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, what is our wind model? Predictable, legality, income in the autonomous community, taxes in the autonomous community, moratorium for a year and a half so as not to continue to fill the territory of Galicia with inconsistencies and tensions and to stop the nonsense of the processing of wind farms without control of the Ministry of the Environment. The first thing to do is not to demonize this sector. Do we want 100% renewable energy? Our proposal is yes. Do we want energy autonomy in Galicia? Our proposal is yes. Each gigavatio/hour of wind energy prevents the emission of 310 tons of CO2. So, Your Honor, that's our model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u14	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u15	What is the model of the Socialist Party?, the closure of the basins of Alcoa?, the removal of the Ring of the River?, the closure of the combined cycle plant in the Bridges?, the closure of the combined cycle plant of Meirama?, the closure of Alu Iberian? Was that the Socalist Party's energy proposal? Ten thousand jobs in the street? Is this your model? No, Your Honor, this can't be your model. But that's what he's got. What's our proposal? Your Honor, leave Ence in the area of the port area of Marín? Do you agree with that model? Why did we close Spain's largest thermal power station when he was fulfilling CO2 emissions? [[An honourable Member: No.]] Why? Your Honor, it's a silly thing to shut down a power station and open it again after a month, an absolute nonsense! But it doesn't matter, Your Honor, our model is to process with legal certainty and with respect to Galicia's general interests. [[Applause]] We are currently working on 84 projects with 2,328 megawatts, which are carrying out public information processes and compliance procedures of the Greek Wind Plan, the Provincial Wind Project Information Network. We meet with over a hundred municipalities to explain to one by one the wind project, we have a guide to the processing of wind projects on the web, with transparency, and we have an information office to landowners, which no government in Spain has. What is your project, Mr. Álvarez? You're on the platforms with the nationalists against the wind farms. When they meet with the industry, they're all facilities, and when we get out on the street on every platform of a municipality there's a mayor or a chief and spokesman of the Socialist Party, but not only in the municipalities where the parks are being put, but in the municipalities where the escape lines of the park have to pass. Pontecals is a good example. So when you come to ask me for a pact, and I offer that same covenant, let's really agree, let's not do demagogy, Your Honor. Are you against the moratorium? Do you think we should continue processing wind farms? We have 11,000 new requests for megawatts. Do you think that we should follow or that we really should stop and see exactly where you can put, with what legal certainty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u17	...and what wind planning do we have to count on? Your Honor, I hear your secretary general say, "Madrilese groups who are listed in Madrid want to invest in Galicia." But, Your Honor, if your secretary general doesn't want them to invest in Galicia, no, what's in favour of Italian multinationals investing in the Bridges. And we have nothing against it, but we cannot accept the incoherence of the Socialist Party, which changes my mind every month. [[Murmurs.]] Now, I'm going to have my last opinion: let's make a pact for the wind energy planned with regard to the environment in Galicia, let's do it, Mr. Álvarez... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u19	I hope that the majority of the Socialist Party will at least pay attention to its general secretary, who at present seems to change wind politics and break the pact of "stop the wind" with the nationalists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u21	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u22	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on Government forecasts regarding the continuation of the current privatized model of residences for older persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u23	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u24	Thank you very much. Good morning. I also want to greet the boys and girls who follow us today from this rostrum. They, of course, are a reason for us to re-sign the policy that matters, which is to put people's needs at the center and, of course, Galicia. And I, Mr. Feijóo, would tell him that, if we talk about slogans, it seems to me that right now what's best for you is "Geneva, Genoa, Genoa." And I'm telling you this because it's been a lot of hours in the last few days dedicated to trying to cover up the corruption of the People's Party, to cover up the inner war of the People's Party, many hours centered on the People's Party and not to address the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, which are many, among them, those of the older people. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And one of these problems is your model of privatized residences, which turns old age into a business. Yes, and this has consequences. In Galicia we have 85% of the privatized residential squares, we have the lowest number of public squares throughout the state, and they have to wait up to two years to access a residence. That's the situation in which older people live. From the BNG we believe that we have the ethical and moral obligation to take note of what happened during the worst months of this pandemic, where a group of 22,000 people have registered 45% of the deaths. That's why we say we need to put in place a new model of residence where old age isn't a business for the party's friendly companies, like DomusVi. [[Applause]] And with that responsibility, we register in this House a bill that wants to push this new public-centred model, in which we pay humanized attention to small centres where staff are increased in all categories, where there is an inspection service that inspects and where there is transparency, that any citizen of this country knows what happens in any residence in Galicia. And I hope, Mr Feijóo, that you will vote in favour of this bill when it is debated in this Parliament. Well, we have an incognito, because we don't know if you'll be the president then. [[Laughter]] Anyway, time will tell, and it also gives me that Mrs. Ayuso. Anyway, Mr. Feijóo, today what I want to ask you is if you took note, if you're going to leave behind that model of privatized residence that does business with old age, that does business with families and also with the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm waiting for your answer and, above all, I'm waiting for the older people in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u26	Mr. President. I'm sorry you have that opinion of the 20,000 people working in the senior sector in Galicia. I'm sorry that you're again slandering them, and I'm sorry that you're being overlooked, when it turns out that the people who are working with the older people, both in residences and in the field of disability, believed that they were excellent professionals in the greatest stress test passed by Western societies, which was the pandemic. [[Murmurs.]] We are the autonomous community, and these professionals in the larger sector, who best resisted the virus, and that's why we are the autonomous community with fewer deaths, depending on the number of residents in Spain. To come here again to deceive, in addition to boys and girls who are listening to what they are saying, you simply aim to leave this Parliament without knowing who is telling the truth. Look, Your Honor, the lowest number of deaths compared to the total number of Spanish squares in Galicia, 4.5 % of users; the average of Spain is 10.3%. So pull out what you said if you really want to talk about serious protocols of integrated residences and record time vaccination to the elders, which is what we did in Galicia during the pandemic. Your Honor, our model is a very clear model: to double the number of squares financed from public funds. When we arrived, there were 5,500; today, 13,000. That's the model: double the number of major squares with public funds. But that's what we did in day centers, we didn't double them, we multiplied them by four. And we duplicate Alzheimer's centers and the number of community housing, and we increase 44% the residential squares and 28% the disability squares. In all, in Galicia there were 12,000 squares in this sector and now there are 25,000. [[Applause]] Your Honor, when you ask me to vote in favour of a BNG proposal, you know perfectly well that we present in the House, with the counsellor's appearance and myself, the new model of residences, after the learning of the pandemic, with greater humanization, greater information, greater use of technologies, greater health coordination and structural reforms. If you like the model, we're in favor. Better humanization, that is to say, favor the exit with families and visits of families to the elderly; an advisory council in each residence, where there are families and residents with more than a hundred squares; an advisory council to speak of each residence; an autonomous office of care to residents and families; rooms with sensors in all residences; tracking tools, cognitive deterioration tools, communication tools with families every day; nursing scan; a clinical history for each user of a residence; telecare; a primary care doctor directly committed to that residence; more health care staff in senior homes depending on the number of users; and living units of 25 people. You have to try to make a residence the home where the elders live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u28	...and that they are residences of at least 6 units of cohabitation. Your Honor, this is the model, but not the model that you bring in that proposal. By the way, I congratulate part of the proposal, because it is a copy of the model of the People's Party and Government that we present in Parliament. That's why I congratulate you. [[Applause]] But please, Your Honor, don't go along with the core of privatization. You've been here in Parliament. I don't know how much time and it's the most widely used word for health and policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u29	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u30	...social. It's the most useless word BNG persists in. But you don't care, do you? What matters to you is your ideology. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u31	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u32	Mr. Feijóo, do you know what is regrettable? You come here, don't listen to my intervention, and you're, as always, dedicated to creating a parallel reality and trying to put in my mouth things that I didn't say. Your defamations, Mr Feijóo, are of course unacceptable, unacceptable! [[Applause]] But it is also unacceptable, Mr. Feijóo, that you come here to try to hide behind the residents workers, who are suffering from a precariousness to which you do not meet. Of course, this is not to respect residential workers. [[Applause]] I meet with them, Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you too have taken that step. [[Applause]] And, of course, it's sad and it fails us again. You came here to assume data of deaths of a pandemic. Mr. Feijóo, the older people and, of course, the young and young people who are here today listening to us and who also have grandparents do not deserve those statements from the President of the Union, because I will remind you of a fact that is a relevant fact, Mr. Feijóo: twelve years of president, and zero public residences in this country. [[Applause]] That's your commitment. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I have to tell you that it's devastating that, after all that happened in the pandemic, you come here saying that you're not going to change absolutely anything relevant and that you come here to defend that privatization model from residences and to defend the economic interests of friendly companies of the People's Party, as is DomusVi, Mr. Feijóo. Do you know what's clear? [[Applause]] That for the People's Party politics is not a public service, it's a public service. That's what's getting clear, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the question is that you have to clarify to us that you think, for example, of statements like this: Is it understandable that on April 1, 2020, when 700 people died in Spain, you could contact Mrs Ayuso and receive 283,000 euros of benefits for selling masks? You have to clarify this, and if you think this is acceptable, or if you think it's a new case of corruption from the People's Party, you have to get under the carpet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And, look, for political honesty, Mr. Feijóo, you have to clarify to the Greeks and to the Greeks whether from now on your occupation is Galicia or to cover up the corruption of the People's Party and lead the People's Party. And, look, I tell you it's legitimate that you have the aspirations you consider, above all, now that it seems that Mrs Ayuso has already given her blessing, but you have to choose: either Galicia or the People's Party, because Galicia is not the waiting room for her personal ambitions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u34	And for political honesty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u36	...for honesty towards the Greeks and the Greeks, you have to tell them what you choose: either Galicia or the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. To close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u38	Well, Mrs. Pontón, you seem to want to replace Mr. Néstor Rego. Be very careful, that Mr. Nestor Rego is the one who continues to command. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you say you have to choose between Galicia and the People's Party. No, Your Honor, Galicia has always chosen the People's Party; and consequently it has always said no to the German nationalists. [[Applause]] Galicia is a smart, moderate, sensible land; Galicia is a land that democratically decides the Government it wants. Galicia, Your Honor, is much more than a closed ideology. Galicia is a constitutional democracy. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you say we don't do residences, we don't manage anything, and it turns out we have twice as many squares as when we get to the government. It turns out that at this moment only in public projects are being processed 1,000 new public residential squares; that's right, with the vote against the BNG in Ourense: not to the public residence of Ourense by the BNG. Always, always, always against; always, always, always, not. And that's why the Greeks tell them no. Why, Your Honor? Because the Greeks are much smarter than you and me. They look at us, they observe us, listen to us and decide. [[Applause]] But with all due respect, about the affront — of what you are talking about — the privatization, I tell you, Your Honor, that when you ruled — and only four years ago — they signed five contracts for the outsourcing of senior residences. I will give you the data: Residence of Laraxe, 172 squares, DomusVi, signed September 1, 2005; Residence of Quiroga, 88 squares, Foundation Valdegodos, September 1, 2005 ; Residence Viana do Bolo, Foundation Valdegodos, 125 squares; Residence Castro de Ribeiras do Lea, 172 squares, DomusVi; Residence of Bande, 50 squares, DomusVi. [[Cabanas]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, but do you really come here to talk about outsourcing, privatization when you, when you arrived at the Government, the first thing they did was to outsource the residences? [[A few honourable Members: Hello!]] Really, Your Honor, it's a surprising thing! [[A few honourable Members: Hello!]] [[Applause]] But let's go on, Your Honor. Let's go. I'm not talking about when they got to the government but when they run. Deputy of Lugo, all residences built by Deputy of Lugo, managed by PSOE and BNG, outsourced. [[Murmurs.]] All of you, right now! All of them! [[An honourable Member: Caramba!]] But let's keep talking about what you do now, not when you were in the Bipartite. Home help service. BNG councils outsourcing the home help service, 46.6%; PSOE municipalities, 45.5; PP municipalities, 29%. [[Murmurs.]] But do you really want to fool someone? [[Murmurs.]] Look, high school boys understand perfectly what we're saying, that you charge this government not to update and build squares, when it's the most accomplished government; and charge outsourcing squares, when you're teachers of saying something in Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u40	...and to say something else outside. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're talking business now. Isn't DomusVi a company with which you outsourced residences? Yeah? Lugo's residences are a major scandal, Your Honor. They select staff and force companies to hire that staff. That's unfortunate! [[Murmurs.]] They made an opposition before the municipal elections and then left the opponents out of the residences because they did not make them public, but agreed. [[Murmurs.]] It's a startling scandal, Your Honor! [[Applause]] But it doesn't matter, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u41	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u42	Look, our balance is known...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u44	...we doubled the public funds-funded squares, multiplied by four aids to the unit and increased from 12,000 to 25,000 people cared for in their homes. Do you want to put all the seniors in residences? The elders will have to choose if they want to stay in their home, with help; if they want to stay in their home with help to eat at home; if they want to go to a house of the elders in the small villages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u45	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u46	...if you want to go to this residence, the other residence or the one there. But no, Your Honor, you must go to the residence to say the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u48	... managed as BNG says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u50	As I say, yes, but as you do, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u52	Look, Your Honor, thank God we still have common sense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u53	Thank you, President. [[Applause extended.]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u54	I will now read to you an institutional statement by the Spanish Federation and the Galician Federation of Rare Diseases for World Rare Diseases Day, 2022; an agreement reached by the groups representing this House and saying: "In the European Union, rare diseases are those with a prevalence of less than 5 people per 10,000 inhabitants. Half of the families wait more than four years to get a diagnosis, and 20 percent more than a decade. Besides, only 5% of over 6,000 rare diseases have treatment. More than 300 million people in the world — 3 million in Spain and 200,000 in Galicia — live with these diseases. On February 28, World Day of Rare Diseases is celebrated. The Spanish Federation and the Galician Federation of Rare Diseases align their challenges with the European, Ibero-American and international alliance. This year or slogan of the Spanish Federation "How do you see yourself in 2030?" seeks to reflect to meet the following challenges, highlighting the importance of equity: 1. Update the Strategy for Rare Diseases of the National Health System. On this line, Fegerec recognizes the start-up step of the Welsh Strategy of Rare Diseases. 2. To foster research and its sustainability, increasing resources for research related to rare diseases in the Public Health System of Galicia. 3. Ensuring access to neonatal screening tests and techniques throughout the territory, the latter from the minimum established by the Ministry of Ten Diseases to 40 in some community, aiming for Galicia to be in the upper framework of the autonomous communities of Spain. 4. Continuation of the European Regulation which has been driving the recognition of the specialty of Clinical Genetics in Spain since 2011 and which has not yet been implemented. 5. To encourage coordination between reference centres and other health centres to reduce the displacement of families where experience is concentrated. 6. Ensuring equity in access to assistance services collected in the national health system portfolio and in the various autonomous portfolios. 7. Strengthening Galician social services and building the hunger for socio-sanitary space. 8. Equity in social inclusion according to specific needs, both in the educational field and in the workplace, favoring the employment and family reconciliation of our collective. The number of patients with rare diseases in each territory does not favor sufficient knowledge for the understanding and approach of these diseases. So in 2021 the UN Resolution on Rare Diseases alludes to the fundamental importance of equity. The action of each territory is fundamental to achieving these specific challenges and global objectives. Fegerec and Feder call on the competent institutions of Wales and the state to develop strategic actions that guarantee equitable access to the diagnosis, treatment and socio-health care, favouring Spain to ensure that the measures of the UN resolution rise to the World Health Organization Assembly and that the Spanish Presidency at the Council of the European Union undertakes to promote a European plan of action during its presidency in 2023." [[Approved by consent.]] This is the statement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And now we continue with the agenda, with point 4, interpelerations. Interpellation of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of xunta de Galicia regarding the problematic use of the internet and social networks by minors and adolescents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u55	Mrs Ortega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u56	Thank you, President. First, I want to greet the new people that we have and, given what we're going to talk about, I'm very interested in them watching young people and girls, because we're going to talk about social networks, we're going to talk about technology and, of course, about the good face of the coin, but also about the bad face, where they probably feel identified and identified with many of the issues we're going to talk about here today. We do this because we consider it to be a matter which is not talked about in Parliament, but it is true that we have to put it on the political agenda. And I'm going to show you some statements from the Chief of Addiction Unit at Stanford University, Anna Lembke. "We're surrounded by pleasure. Our brain reacts with addictions, depression and anxiety." [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] This is the bad part of the face of the coin, which we also want to talk about. In 2011, People's Valley presented a report on adolescents and the Internet in Galicia. In 2019, the Faculty of Psychology of the University of Santiago de Compostela leads a study, unprecedented in the country, on the impact of the game on the smaller Greeks, funded by the National Plan on Drugs of the Ministry of Health; both led by the team of Professor Antonio Rial, belonging to the USC, the Welsh university of which we are so proud. March 2020, the beginning of the pandemic. From Unicef Spain there is a concern about the impact of technology on minors and he trusts one of his most important studies in this matter on the same team, a Greek team from the university of Greece that makes us feel proud, bannering at the national level, once again, the talent we have in the universities of Greece, and more on this issue. Months later, the University of Cantabria conducts a study on the impact of technologies on early childhood and within which the concept of " Amazon children" is mentioned, alluding to the generation of children familiar with the immediate response to their needs, thereby disappearing the value of waiting, taking the possibility of being motivated by themselves, created in a world where fleet and imminence predominate. Now neuropeans such as those at Sant Joan de Dios Hospital in Barcelona, for example, are already reporting about the so-called tictok tics that imitate the Tourette syndrome itself, which causes very important functional deterioration in minors and shows phenomenological similarities with the contents of TikTok's popular videos. Another question you're talking about is selfie's dysmorphy, when the affected people identify themselves more with the image of selfies than with their own real appearance, because of the filters that, as you know, apply some social networks to all known. We have to talk about the impact of technology from childhood, and for this I want us to travel in time to remember when we were young-girls, children, and be able to put ourselves in place to practice empathy, so we can have the utmost diligence from empathy. How would we assimilate that steep technological impact, how would we assimilate our own restrictions derived from the pandemic from our teenage minds, the deprivation of relationship with our equal, our friends, our freedom? At those ages it is tremendous to assume all those issues. And so the technological impact has increased exponentially, and now we're seeing many of these effects. Obviously, as I used to say at first, the good face of the coin, but also the bad face. Adults themselves are aware of the addictive power. How long can we spend without checking the phone? How long can we pass without seeing the notifications, without entering social networks, the adults themselves? But it's just that adults are starting from that we've already formed our personality, the brain at anatomic level, but also at a mental level. But what happens when the generation of natives on networks, that generation that grew with its own technological impact within it, with its cognitive capabilities, with the prefrontal cortex of the brain, with personality, with emotional control, all that in the process of formation? How is the impact on this case? That's what we have to sink into. From Galicia we have much to do to greatly limit the problematic use of technology about minors. And a great example, as I said, is the talent we have in the Greek universities. That's why we have to take the glove and bet to take as reference these great experts to succeed on the path of good diligence that we have to have in this case from Galicia in order to protect the minors from the negative consequences of new technologies and social networks. If you're looking for the top has videos with more visualizations in the most known search engine — which I'm not going to quote, but we all know what it is — the truth is that in that top you have videos with more visualizations correspond to content directed at early childhood. This reflects the level of consumption that we've had since early childhood, because we have to talk from early childhood, if you're looking at it. And a lot of people will think, what's the problem? Well, of course, we start from what we're talking about in the right face, too, that technologies bring a lot of benefits to all levels, but we also have to talk about the other side. And evidence is warning us that there is another face of currency that is the negative consequences of the problematic use of technology: sedentaryism, addiction, behavioral changes, impact on mood or mental illness, suicidal ideation. The greatest danger is to normalize all this and not act on time. And we're wondering why we've been putting on screens since early childhood, because logically no father or mother wants to hurt their child -- that's obvious. But society itself is immersed in the co-responsibility with which we must shield our minors. Because it's true that sometimes parents and mothers may feel uncomfortable, for example, when they're in a restaurant, a coffee shop. There are establishments within the hostel, hotels, which have even come to prohibit access to minors; it is totally intolerable that this happens. And so sometimes this situation comes to pass and normalizes in a worrying way. But, as representatives of citizenship, we have a duty to warn about the evidence, and some of the conclusions of these studies are worrying, because there are risks like sexting, gambling. There's really low parental supervision. In addition, minors have several profiles within the same network that draw that parental control. 22.6% of families have discussions at home about using technology at least once a week. It's totally worrying and we have to go deep in the matter. It's estimated that two out of ten teenagers might be victims of cyber-hunting, one out of four might already have a problematic use of the Internet. We are talking about a totally worrying issue that probably those who are listening to us — whether they are minors, parents, teachers, mental health, health professionals, even forces and security bodies — are feeling identified with what we are talking about. Previously it was said that children were born with bread under their arms and now they seem to be born with a screen. It's not about blaming ourselves, of course, because technologies bring benefits, but we have to bet on the didactics that tries to equip the progenitors within the educational field as well, to control and minimize the risks as much as possible. Obviously no father or mother wants to harm their children. Therefore, it is essential that, since Galician Union itself, in collaboration, of course, with the universities, with the social agents involved, with the experts on the subject, with the professional schools in the field, there is a powerful plan, with resources, preventive, transversal and resourceful to execute it. Because there are resources, and the truth is that really the Galician board did invest in resources in this matter, and we'd like it to be fair. Because Junta announces an investment of about a million euros to boost the video game industry in Galicia, and of course we agree, because we are leading players in this industry. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] But when is prevention? It has to be fair. While we're betting on the industry, we have to bet on prevention, because we're fair and fair with the face of the coin, with the good face and also with the negative face, and with the negative consequences that we're seeing. Because something is happening with a part of the young population. Every day there is more news that they warn that something is not right, even serious news such as that of last week in Elx, which is obviously multicausal and not just that, but that it has opened a debate on this issue by the experts. It's clear that not all evils come from the pandemic, if you've sharpened some, one of them very worrying, the theme of mental health of the infant-juvenile population. And when we talk about the mental health of the so-called Alpha generation, 100% digital, we inevitably have to talk about ICT, technologies, new technologies. Yesterday there was a debate on mental health in this chamber, and it's sad to see how the People's Party doesn't get into reason, because they're not aware that the waiting lists and spaces between sessions are inescapable. And as professionals of psychology and psychiatry, among which I find myself, we want to warn of the lack of effectiveness in treatments when waiting lists are eternal and spaces between sessions are long, because obviously the effectiveness of treatment is lost. They're already seriously investing in mental health and blinden the minors. Galicia is the first autonomous community in the consumption of anxiolytics, the second after Asturias in the consumption of antidepressants. Galicia and Asturias also suffer the greatest number of suicides. And I don't say it, says the Galego Mental Health Movement in Galicia. And all this data is not alien to our childhood and youth. That is why we must be present and, above all, act coordinated, of course. We request a powerful and cross-sectional preventive plan, coordinated between several areas...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u58	...—it can't be that it falls only in an area—in coordination with a public health that blinds and fortifies child-juvenile mental health. And that the number of links and the number of followers never conditions the self-esteem of our minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u59	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u60	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega. The truth is that I have not just understood — quite frankly — the political intent of this explanation. Normally, when an inquiry is made, it is done to question a concrete action by the Government, it is also done to hold the Government accountable for a specific problem. I'm telling you because certainly in this matter I see that we have a tremendously common, tremendously shared diagnosis. We're all aware that technology obviously has two faces, like almost everything in life: a good one and a bad one. One thing is the use of technologies, another is the abuse of technologies. And here I greet the boys and girls who are seeing us and who certainly know what I'm talking about. I also have some teenage children, as a father I also know, and we also know that this isn't an exclusive administration problem, it's an absolutely social problem, where families have a share of responsibility that's also very important. You obviously thought here as if the Board in the field of your responsibilities did not act or had no actions to manage this scope. I'll tell you next. We work from the educational field, like other advisors and other departments from their specific fields, whether from the social perspective, whether from the health perspective, in predicting and informing young people of the innate dangers of misuse, abuse of technologies. And surely we also share that we are facing a certainly complex problem, that needs an integral vision and that has a very high social base. You quoted here in the scope of your inquiry a study of a fellow university student, of Professor Rial, who was introduced very recently, who put significant data on the table. It is a general-level study in Spain that focuses on 19 educational centers in Galicia, with approximately 3,150 surveys. It is also true — and you know perfectly well — that this is an issue that has already been debated. The 5th Commission was discussed from a social point of view and the 4th Commission from a more educational perspective. In both committees, the vision or the planning of the Galician Union and the evaluation of the Galician Union on this issue was put on the table. I'm going to repeat it here: we are and we need a cross-sectional approach, with a global involvement of all of us; it's also said by Professor Rial's own report; we must involve families, adolescents themselves, educational centers, technological industries. It is a global problem, absolutely global. The professor himself also tells us a sentence that I think we share: that the impact of new technologies on adolescents — and I insist: there are teenagers here — is not an exclusive responsibility either of the parents or the centres, or of the competent councils or departments, but that it is a social problem, in which we all must contribute and we must all be aware of the situation. As I said, one question is the use and another question is the abuse of new technologies. Of course, we understand that the use of technologies, the technological skills these young people and girls are acquiring in the education system, is tremendously positive. Positive because it gives them opportunities for the future and because — whether we want it or not — we are in a tremendously technological society where the use of skills is fundamental, not only in the present, but also in the future, for all of them. Another question is that you are given an excessive amount of time or that other basic and fundamental issues are left aside for the physical, emotional and even mental development of the children's population and the adolescent population, which reduces sleep because of new technologies, less sport because of technologies, less human interactions because of the abuse of technologies, or if you come between — the most serious — in a risk behaviour, in an addiction behaviour. And that's why it's key, the involvement of families is fundamental. And I also talk as a father to teenage children. I think that the family's role in their children's education is key to managing this issue. I quote again or Professor Rial, who literally says: "It is sometimes being delegated to the school—the quote is in Spanish—an education that should be domestic about the misuse of many technologies." On this issue, on this stage, we understand that the Administration cannot be a mere observer, but it must have transversal preventive actions in these areas (social, health, education), and, above all, as I said, act preventively when there is a problem in this area. We're obviously doing it, from the educational perspective, just like other advisors from their own perspective. Allow me, of course, to focus on education, to say that we have initiatives that are geared towards reducing, informing and transferring to adolescents who use — never more so — the new technologies, which are necessary, no doubt. We have actions in collaboration, for example, the program Navigating, with the College of Engineers. We have the Project Plan, where there are different actions, for example, Cherote+, Entrepreneurs in ICT. All this is oriented to say: young people, girls, use technologies, wear them with your head, use them with care, surf the net obviously, but do it in a safe way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u61	Please. Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Let this debate end and that young people and girls can follow this debate, which they must be interested in. No, no, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're in the debate. I think it's a subject they might be interested in. So we're a little late, if necessary, for another visit, but we're going to let you attend this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are also other programs, for example with the Government's own delegation and the High Inspectorate, the Plan Director of Coexistence and Security of Educational Centres, where there are talks about new technology, cybersecurity and harassment. There's information, there's training, there's concern. And in the purely educational field, what are we doing? On the one hand, we understand that these young people, these girls, have to be trained in the use and skills and capabilities of the technological world. This government has been doing it since 2010: Abalar, digital book, E-Dixgal, Eurodigital... but we also have to work on a good climate of coexistence in educational centers, and I think we also have strategies in place in this field. As for the development of digital skills, many of these young people use digital books, many are in Abalar, many are working on projects linked to the digital world in their educational centers. And we've also recently adopted a new digital education strategy for the year 2030, with actions for parents, with actions for teachers, with actions for students as well, of course. We want you all to be aware that we are all aware that there must be a careful use of new technologies and literacy in this area too, in many cases for families themselves, and to try to report to combat misinformation. In the educational centers themselves, and linked to this digital education strategy, we are implementing a digital plan of centers, and we have a digital education network where almost eighty professionals are drafting and developing digital plans of centers so that there is a use of new technologies in the learning process and avoiding abuse of them by means of information. In the field of coexistence, we also have a legislative framework, both from the social perspective and from the educational perspective: the Law of coexistence and participation of the educational community and the Law of support for family and coexistence in Galicia. There is in the planning area of the Welsh Strategy of School Cohabitation, and there are concrete actions. We have an educational protocol for the prevention, detection and treatment of school harassment and cyber-awareness, pioneer in Spain, subjects that you have largely cited. We have a digital identity guide to train teachers, families and students as well. We have a data protection protocol, that is, reporting guides. We also have an overview of the situation of cohabitation, through the macro-enquiries we have carried out three, which we constantly do in the educational centres to have a diagnosis of the situations of cohabitation. We have data, we know what's going on in this area. And normally all the data -- it's also true, and I think it's a good sign -- all the statistics tell us that data in Spain is higher than data in Galicia, that is, we have a better comparative situation. We also have and we are working on a new Welsh school coexistence strategy, which collects in this field a specific line that is targeted at bullying and cyber-hunting within a plan to combat school harassment. And of course, I also announce that we are working on the review and updating of the school and cyber harassment protocol I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u64	We also have an emotional well-being plan, which we set about pioneering after the pandemic itself. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega, I believe that we have a very common diagnosis, we have actions in the field of education, as well as other advisors in their fields, which are essentially oriented towards the prevention, detection and information of society as a whole. And we also have a coincidence that we are faced with an absolutely social problem that we have to address with an integral perspective, where educational centres...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u66	...family and the whole of society worry about this situation, because obviously we cannot close our eyes to a reality, but surely the Galician Union is also acting on its responsibilities to try to manage this situation in the best way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u67	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u68	Thank you, President. Counselor, the truth is, I'm very glad to know that you agree with our proposal. Let us hope that once we endorse this proposal for the next plenary session, as regards a motion for a resolution, they will vote in favour. I understand that we start with that all groups represented in this chamber because we are in favour of a question that is fundamental to shielding the health of our minors and, of course, to work on prevention, because working on prevention always means saving future resources and especially justice, because we know that minors are the first. What surprises me is that he says he doesn't understand the meaning of the inquiry, because it's about criticizing something that doesn't work with the government. I disagree. Let us forget that it is also more important that the proposed part that we can do as opposition, in this case to propose and encourage also a debate with the representativeness that you serve as education advisor within Galicia, which of course deserves, in order to be able to share a problem that is on the table and that the experts themselves are deluding. We have to get that glove to be able to debate the issue and propose solutions, which is what we are doing. In the opposition I as a representative of the Greek citizenship not only am I to criticize but also to propose. It is true that we took the committee last year, to the 5th Committee on Health, also to the Committee on Education, this proposal, and the fact is that we had an answer, a positive reciprocity on the part of the Director-General of the Family, who told us that he was doing these kinds of programmes, which you also appointed now, but we will agree that they are not enough. The problem is not to approach them in a coordinated way between advisors, because we're realizing that there's no full coordination between advisors. He also named the professor — who was my professor, by the way — Antonio Rial, the study so important that it is this, that he promoted Unicef Spain, and was focused on the talent we have at the university in Greece in connection with these issues, with the impact of technology on adolescence, on risks and opportunities. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] I keep the word "opportunities," because it is true that we have an opportunity to work coordinated and all agree to be able to carry this plan with resources, because ultimately without resources and coordination is not supported or can be implemented. But I repeat: coordination between councils, because the truth is, sometimes it doesn't seem to be visible, and in this case, I think we should coordinate better. Children, as I said before, by nature, play, are restless, laugh, cry, we can't change their essence, and so we like it. The screens can help in that way, but at a high price. Sedentaryism, addiction to screens, are some of the negative consequences for the health of minors. And — I repeat — there are also positive consequences, of course; we start from that premise. Social networks, the Internet, new technologies, have a very important positive channel, in many areas, and in the pandemic, we've seen that we can interact with older people, so they don't have that plus of loneliness that offered by the pandemic. We could also talk to our family, we could talk to our friends, our neighbors, etc., thanks to technology. Of course he has positive things — he would miss more — but here we want to focus on how to prevent the negatives. And you tell me that within the educational field the teacher is really worried about the question, they're also working on training to prevent this. And, of course, families are also concerned, and those of us who are parents and mothers, of course, are concerned about this issue. That's why we decided to bring the matter here. Professor Antonio Rial, of the University of Santiago de Compostela, artifice and leader of this plan, who is commenting on the lack of many questions to make, has a lot of ideas to carry out this plan. We had a meeting by all groups, several meetings, with Unicef, and the task was on this issue. So it's a lot more to do, and you have to focus it cross-sectionally on all areas and package all these issues that are being done isolated in a plan that is much more effective to squeeze the resources in this case. And another question that we're also told: the roadmap that prevention technicians are carrying out with this kind of software is very out of date, we have to update it. And that kind of question is where we want to sink. That is why — I repeat — we do not want to stigmatize networks or technology either, but rather to alert ourselves to the problems they are offering about our minors, and we want to shield our minors, and where we have a speaker, where we can offer and communicate our proposals, we have to put the debate on the table. For all this, it is urgent that this preventive, coordinated plan, between universities, administration, education, sport, which are relevant to our children and children these sportsmen, the world of football, which is also involved in offering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u70	...as referents and as models of these children the use of responsible and healthy technology. So I finish as I began: we don't want the self-esteem or self-conception of our minors to be measured in the number of links or in the number of followers. That's why we believe that social networks are always positive and when we make use of prevention and put on resources for prevention and, of course, in coordination with mental health and also with the area of social policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u72	...that I think we're failing there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u73	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Close this interpellation, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Ortega, as I've told you, since the German Government we've been working on this matter for some time, in this problem that concerns us. And I also greet the new students, the new boys and girls, these a little younger, who have just arrived at the hemicycle. We've been working for a long time, we were pioneers in Spain when we started the protocol of harassment and cyber harassment, so we were when we put the Plan of emotional well-being last year in educational centers. And I think we share the diagnosis of the stage. Obviously, we are all aware that zero risk does not exist, that use and abuse are different things, that we need a cross-cutting approach, a general approach, let's say, to involve ourselves in society as a whole, families, with a fundamental role for families. We already have a normative framework, I think it is solid, both the law of coexistence and participation in education and also the law of family support and coexistence in Galicia. We must work positively. This is a problem that transcends the purely political and administrative sphere. We must involve families, centers, institutions, all industries as well, the technology industries themselves, and, above all, raise awareness of the young people and girls today that it is necessary to have technological skills, it is necessary to use and look for the opportunities that the technological world gives, but we must do so with caution, without falling into the traps or the problems that can lead to the abuse of the technological world. We have to use networks and technologies with responsibility. We need to put in place preventive measures and actions. We have to equip our Thursdays today, which will be the Greeks and the Greeks tomorrow, with digital skills. We're doing this through the 2030 Digital Education Strategy, which strengthens, which is a new step, a new momentum in the effort that for a long time has led Galician Union in the field of our technologies, in the field of the use of new technologies. We must always improve living conditions in educational institutions. They live in educational centers around half a million people, they come in and out every day (fathers, teachers, non-teaching staff), some very different ages, and we have to make sure there's a good climate. Of course, there are things that can always be improved, we don't deny it, there are things that can be improved. We've done a lot in the last few years, but there's always things to do. In teacher training, in prevention, in detection, there's always something to improve. But it's also true that a lot of questions have been asked in recent years. But all this — I insist — everything the Administration does, education, social policy, health, municipalities will do nothing unless there is a real and constant involvement of families, a conscience on the part of families. One fact that came out of this Unicef report is that at midnight a very significant percentage -- I don't remember the data -- of children and girls and girls were in the room with their mobile, some on unrecommendable pages, obviously. Students, these young people, these teenagers, know that you shouldn't do this, but obviously in the responsibility of having them in their rooms at high hours of the night wrong using new technologies, on unrecommendable pages, it's logical that there must be family involvement and participation; otherwise nothing can be done. It is worth noting that in educational centres we insist on information measures, prevention measures, if we are not aware that the family has, that we have -- I am also a teenager father -- that we involve ourselves so that there is no misuse of the technologies that generate problems in young people themselves. In any event, this requires constant updating. We're going to re-update the education strategy associated with school co-existence, and, as I said, we're going to work, we're already working on reviewing and updating the school harassment and cybercrime protocol this year. Since we've started, ten years ago, there's been changes today, we're going to pick them up, we're going to evaluate them, we're going to take these changes into account so we can do a good job, basically good prevention work and good information and training work. Finally, a cross-sectional problem, a worrying problem and a problem where we all have to work to try to solve it. Families, like administrations, but especially families, parents and mothers, have, we have, a very high responsibility for these children and children today, these boys and girls today, who tomorrow will be the Greeks who take from us, use new technologies, take advantage of new technologies in their social life, in their working life, but who do not abuse them for the prejudices that they can generate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u75	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We also greet the students of the Campoamor Center, of Orders. I don't know if it's 5th or 6th. Are you the 5th or the 6th or both? Just 5th? What about you? 6th or 5th? All 5th. Then the 6ths will come. Because they come from 5th and 6th. So we say hello to the 5th. Welcome to Parliament. And now we continue with another interpellation. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the Environmental Policy of the German Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u76	Mr. Rivas has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A greeting to the little people of Orders who visit us. Counsellor, the appearance in a visible way of cyanobacteria in the coronation of the Cunchas, the Conchas, the ecological, environmental and citizen complaints in general, arrive at Parliament in 2017, as you well know, in the form of questions to the Government and the PNL. Social unrest, confrontations in the region and political pressure lead the PP to have to react, because the problem is of such magnitude that one cannot continue to look elsewhere. And so, to save time and justify that it's being ruled, they create from the council called the boundary table, formally in April 2019. At the mouth of the Director-General for Agriculture, Gandaria and Food, in commission, on 4 October 2019, all the groups of farmers, farmers and agricultural associations are part of it; on the part of the Board, different departments, different research centres, such as cooperative bodies, all the municipalities of the Limia, environmental organizations, ecological groups, Inorder..., and remains open to anyone who wishes to be part of it — says Mr. Balsairos Guinarte almost textually. And he goes on to say that for the first time — and I underline this for the first time — everyone expresses themselves and that it turns out to be interesting and productive meetings that allow for a perfect analysis and composition of place and propose solutions that cover those needs that are identified there. And so, we are told by Mr. Balsairo, with a certain euphoria of triumphantness, of the agenda of the meeting held a little earlier, on September 20 of that same year 2019, that for his sake I will reproduce: 1. Presentation of the Strategic Plan of the Limia Agrarian Sector, agreed with all participants. Strategic plan of the Limia agricultural sector, year 2019. 2. Articulation and coordination of the operation of the Lime Bureau. Of course. 3. Training plan for farmers and landowners. 4. The publication and distribution of a manual of good practices and recommendations for the threshold agricultural sector, as an end and consequence of that training plan, extended over time and with — let us say — presence talks. 5. Description of the pilot projects of the Rural Media Council for the Limit. 6. Channel cleaning plan. 7. Plan of irrigation, of which there was no news and pending of the 2015 promise, and so on. 8. Get to know the Project Overview of the Integrated System Regulatory Law for the Management of Crude Dejections in Galicia, in public exhibition in the summer of 2019. Disappeared, too. 9. Allegations to the draft ministerial order determining the continental waters affected by pollution due to the contribution of nitrates of agricultural origin. I mean, on September 20, 2019, you were already aware of the problem, and you had -- in theory -- planned and studied solutions. Let us take a look, Mr Counsellor: a farm strategy plan for A Limia, a farm training plan, a manual for good practice and recommendations, several pilot projects of the Rural Council, a channel cleaning plan, a irrigation plan, a draft law for the management of jurors and manure, knowledge of the threat and declaration of vulnerable areas by saturation of nitrates and phosphates at least in the Limia. But there is more: on February 10, 2021 the executive summary of the participatory process of the Limia agricultural sector is published. Three thematic blocks: agricultural production, livestock production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. Three DAFO matrices: weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities. DAFO 1. Greedy. Weaknesses: 1. Productive model based on intensive earnings (pig and poultry), with the consequent loss of holdings of cattle and sheep and goats in extensive terms. I literally -- I've read DAFO, the report. 2. High-dimension exploits with a large dependence on external resources for animal nutrition. I had included the inputs; we imported 85% of the food we gave our cattle intensively. 3. Diffuse water contamination by nitrates and phosphates. 4. Lack of support for the gloved by-products. This is a common analysis by all components of the Limit Table. Threats: a model of exploitation linked to a single cooperative—which will be?— dependent on it in all phases; they depend on production, processing and marketing; if they drive it and eat it. 2. Possible declaration of the region as a vulnerable area due to soil pollution and water by nitrates. This is the millionth of the question, this is the great threat that weighs right now, like a sword of Damocles, above the producers and producers of the Limia, this region that we all boast but that you don't look at it. 3. Climate change will lead to a reduction in current resources, especially in water. Look at this! 4. Negative image to public opinion. DAFO 2. Agriculture. Weaknesses: 1. Productive model based on potato and cereal, with little diversification of crops. 2. Crops with excessive use of agrochemicals, which contribute to reducing product quality and increasing the environmental impact on the region. 3. Lack of advice to producers for the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. 4. Cooperation. Cooperation and association between farmers in the region is limited. 5. The potato crop is seasonal and very volatile between campaigns.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u78	Wait, excuse me for a moment. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u79	That's impossible. I understand that he doesn't like it, but well, that's how he bombed it... Threats: 1. The resource. Water is presented as a present and very worrying weakness in the future. 2. Possible county statement. You could... you know this report, of course you know it, because it went directly from the Limia Bureau, through Juana de Vega, to the council. Of course, our question — as you can see, Counsellor — is not a catastrophic analysis by the BNG; these are statements by its Director General and the participatory summary for the elaboration of the Strategic Plan of the Limitary Agricultural Sector. The diagnosis was made. You were all-knowing at all times in the situation; even before this diagnosis made document, you were aware of the evil that La Limia was holding, and nothing. They tried at all times to throw balloons out and let the time run. You know that the threat of vulnerability is a certainty, you know that the statement of vulnerability will subject the land and livestock sector of the Limia to a third degree they don't deserve. The contamination of land and water due to the excess of interest and sterilization from the intensive gain is the result of the decision of the policies of PP, abandonment and the family concept, of this familiar concept; this very well explains the familiar detail of the Juana de Vega Report when it points among the threats to the producers of the Limia the model of holdings linked to a single cooperative, dependent on it at all stages — production, transformation and marketing — and we all know who it refers to. And, of course, on the threshold the alerts jumped and people are waiting without knowing what's coming on him. But you don't give signs of life, three years of meditation, and I'm not able to do anything productive. Well, they could at this time start taking action to reverse the situation, to start lowering the intensity of the jurors and dung, but no, they don't want, they don't know or dare. Where's the Agricultural Strategic Plan for the Limia, the Farm Training Plan, the Good Practice Manual, everything I told them? Do we know any of that? For it's propaganda and you're smoke, really; you're no one in agrarian politics. This country has this great misfortune, which comes from a long time ago, from a long time ago. Because you have continued to agree that the problem has worsened by allowing these intensive operations to continue to expand, by applying the policy of "you'll do." And the jurors were growing and the dung was growing, and the possibility of managing those resources was waning. And, in the meantime, kicks using synthetic, chemical fertilizers. Because no one in the board has ever been able to enable composting formulas that avoid leaching in inundable areas and thus use hen. Yes, of course, they promised gold and moire, with the Next Generation they're going to make four jure processors and manure placed in the four hottest areas. And I was also promised to rehabilitate Sarreaus' factory, and it's not seen anywhere. What a paradox! A country like ours, with thousands of hectares of farmland floating in abandonment, with problems of persistent fires, in need of fertilizers and waiting for someone to work on them, that someone with a government will take seriously this food sovereignty, and you candles come, waiting for the Next Generation and see if they don't come and they can blame anyone in the central government who isn't from the PP; or the BNG, who has several ministries today in Madrid. Finally, Counselor, let us see that he tells us as a justification of this waste, that he has wasted three years ago to correct mistakes and put into practice palliative and regressive measures. Well, they could have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u81	...if they were sensible, Mr President, by giving a touch to Brussels asking for the postponement of the statement. Do you know the prejudice, the discredit that will cause the products of the Limia and, by extension, those of all Galicia the statement of vulnerability? Does this deserve the region of Limia and its producers? From BNG we believe you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u83	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. I would like at the beginning of my intervention to express the contradiction in which Mr. Rivas has just faced, which, saying that we do nothing, has given half his time to talk about everything that has been done from the Bureau of the Limit, as I will now argue to you too. And I think that if we all read the explanatory statement on this question — which is scary — about what you're talking about about the territory of the boundary, we also need to throw a little bit of truth, which is not found in this house here today, in the Parliament of Galicia. First of all, I think you should remember the general procedure when you find contamination in water. Mr. Rivas, be a little cautious about water pollution in the Limia and other areas of Galicia, because, as it seems, those of the Block either did not read correctly the regulations or wanted to move them half-way, or forgot them in the path of the seat to the atrium. Because, ladies and gentlemen, half the truth is lies. It is the state administration which must first of all make the determination of water affected in the coves between autonomous communities, by the way, through water confederations. First half-truth, first half-truth. For this purpose, the determination would be made by the Autonomic Administration — Galician Waters, Mr Rivas — only in the case of their own shells. But in the case of Limia competition is state-owned, Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. In this context, and as Counsellor for the Rural Environment, I can and I have an obligation to respond to the powers that come to this council, which in this case is the declaration of vulnerable zone. But before then, Mr. Rivas, there must be a statement of water affected, which is the basis, prior to the declaration of vulnerable zone. And in this case, as I say to you, it is the competence of the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if Galicia does not have a declaration of vulnerable areas due to this type of pollution, it is due to the need for prior declaration of nitrate-contaminated water masses. And I repeat that in the case of the Limitia the competence falls to the Hydrographic Confederation, which is affixed to the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Even so, it's not that we've been brought today by the Lime County to this parliament, Bloc Lords. It's not that you were the first to get into trouble, and it's not under any concept that this government looks elsewhere. Of course, as the Block continues with its reasons for things, the Galician Union is working and moving forward to cut and solve it. Here we have to be clear that we are committed to the sustainable management of agricultural activity throughout Galicia and, in particular, in the region of Limia, something that they have forgotten to mention again. Third half true, third great lie. This is a management that is shown in practice. I'm not a man — you know, Mr. Rivas — of coming back to the past, but I have no choice but to refer to that happy archadia which was the Conseilería do Medio Rural de Suárez Canal, in those four years of the Bipartite. Do you know how many farms were authorized in the territory of Limia in those four years? Nothing more or less than 107 farms in the Limia, the 27-per-year reason. How many have been authorized since 2010? 15 a year, half. Do you know that geriatric burden those 107 farms in the Limia? 8.700 larger livestock units. Make the translation, Mr. Rivas. Finally, during the Bipartite, more holdings authorized for a shorter period of time and with a higher gainful burden, thanks to the Bipartite's counsellor. Man, that the same ones who did this now are those who support and ask for the moratorium on farms... Man, I know you like the retraction, Mr. Rivas, but you have little to argue about this. We to ours, without any doubt, which is to work for the county. And now if I want to highlight everything that has been done, because, moreover, I have to tell you that the concern — in addition to the Rural Council, not only that of Juana de Vega, because the Rural Council is the one who has contracted the Strategic Plan of the Limit — is the concern of all farmers and farmers in the region. And I have to tell you that I feel very proud of the quality of farm production in the region of the Limia, and in addition to the concern that all of its farmers and farmers have for improving the sustainability of their farms. And, of course, we're going to support that work, ladies and gentlemen, it's a surprise to me to do all of this, doing what you have to do and what you always tell us: counting on the sector, what was the Bureau of the Boundary. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Put the whole sector in common. You criticized us calling all the organizations that had something to do with farming. What we did was we opened the Limitary Bureau to all the local public and private agents. And we promote, yes, a Strategic Plan of the Limit, in which much work has been done and which has its final affinity, because it has some issues that are pending — and now I will explain to it — seeking to value the agricultural production of the region under a truly sustainable approach, a better and more effective use of resources, in the reduction of, of course, the concentration of nutrients in the waters, in the generation of employment and fixing of populations in rural areas and in combating climate change. Mr. Rivas, with the sweet town halls, of different political parties; you know very well who's in that district. But in addition, we set up an interdepartmental commission — which if you forgot — in June last year, composed of representatives of the Central Government and the Union, to deal precisely with the environmental impact. Note that there's the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, it's not only the Conseilerie du Medio Rural. There are many initiatives to support this sustainability of our farms, not only in the Limia but in the rest of the Galician farm. I am surprised, Mr. Rivas, that someone who voted against the Law of Recovery of Galician Land, which is precisely what he intends to provide on a territorial basis for our exploitation. And I'm warning all of you this year that you will see the polygons set up to give territorial base to our farmers and livestock. [[Applause]] But we also made progress on the Galician pasture plan; 2,250 hectares, ladies and gentlemen, of extensive livestock. Of course, the bill — as you mentioned — of the integrated system for managing gainful discards — that you say it is smoke, we are waiting for the central government to once approve the draft sustainable nutrition decree of the soils that affects that bill. But it's true. Meanwhile, we have designed a very serious project for the joint management of the jurors, gentlemen, not only of the Limit but of the whole of the Galician gain. And of course we present it to the next generation funds, because we, at the Galician Summit, think that these funds have to transform productive sectors, and one of the problems we have here is precisely the management of the jury; I would say that not only in Galicia, but in the whole of the national gain. We have no answer about that project. He spoke to the president of the Union with the minister of the Ecological Transition, and told him it was one of Galicia's main projects for the candidacy of the next generation funds. I myself at last week's Advisory Council will transfer to the minister that there were two fundamental problems at the moment in agriculture and would gain, especially the Galician glove, which were to make effective the ban on the sale of losses and the treatment of jurors in order to solve this environmental problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that neither the call for central government aid nor the PERTe agri-food solve this problem, which for us is an essential issue within the next generation funds. And I ask you in your turn to reply, Mr. Rivas, to support this request from the Government of Greece to the Central Government so that we can enter the next generation funds with treatment of the jury of all the gainful farms in Galicia. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, we also understand the importance of the water issue in the Limia. And that's why we pushed from here, of course, with the support of the Central Government — who also worked with us — that treatment, that improvement of the entire water infrastructure of the boundary region. There are a number of commitments, which I'm going to break now, which I hope will be fulfilled by the central government. First of all, the modernization of the irrigation, EUR 15.9 million. Do you know how long it was in the 600 million euros of water infrastructure improvement not only for Galicia but for the rest of the cantabria? 0 euro. We had to make an effort to convince that in Galicia, although it rains a lot, we have to modernise our water infrastructure; 15.9 million euros, it is true, committed by the central government; but there is a commitment from the Galician Union that is in the budgets of the year 2022, which was that 4 million euros to make the wells that will then be modernized with those 15.9 million euros. And I have to tell you here today, because I can tell you, those wells already have all the permissions of the board and we have the machines heating engines to start drilling. All we lack is the grants from the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, and I ask you, please, to open these concessions so you can make our investment. You also mentioned — when you mentioned that no commitment was made — the cleaning of the channels. It is essential to ensure the environmental sustainability of our Limia farms that channel cleaning. We have reached the compromise — which I hope will be fulfilled and we will be vigilant, and I also ask the Socialist Party in Galicia to help us meet that commitment — of EUR 16 million for the cleaning of the channels and parallel roads. When Mr Rivas says that everything is propaganda and that we don't do anything, I want to say and put it on table 36 million euros to sustainably enhance the agricultural sector of the region of the boundary. So, Your Honor, I have to tell you that since the Conseilaria do Medio Rural we have been working for each of these farmers and farmers who make up the territory of the Limia and make up the rural Galician, while we are progressing in an exponential and progressive improvement of the environmental impact of their activity, prepared to meet any obligation and sustainability requirement for managing the gainful discards. In this sense, the desire of the Galician Union, as you know, is always to move towards a rural future, a rural with profitable economic activity and in which the current quality of life persists. Because the rural environment and the environment have to go hand in hand and in Galicia they will go hand in hand. Nothing else for now. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u84	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, with that coming going that you are accustomed to doing the quality of the Limia products, which we do not deny at any time, you already believe to save the responsibility you have in this disguise. And it's not like that. It's not like that. Look, once again, guilt is the BNG, it's the blame of the damn Bipartite. Yes, yes, no, yes, yes, of course, but the Law of Recovery of Land is a picture, it pretends to be an image of that law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, but you've bombed her and you've been meditating for twelve years, because yours is to meditate; you have no solution for anything, you only meditate, you meditate and you meditate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, our support for the Next Generation. We don't support... [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no, no. Listen to me, listen to me, please. We don't support those macro-projects that are going to implement. Would you like me to tell you what Mr. Balsairos told us about those four macroplants to do a jurors treatment? Look, you don't understand. This country needs fertilizers, what it doesn't need is environmental impacts by concentration of productions that bring out inputs, that bring ships of land and ships of manure, that cannot be mobilized and not... yes, yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] How many millions of tons come from outside inputs? 85% comes from outside, it's foreign, when the normal thing is that the gain is fed by what is produced in the county and the area. That's the extensive gain that we propose and that you say you support, but you don't, the small and medium farms. That's the mother of the year, and that's what you never said about the Bipartite, never, ever. Look, environmental skills are ours, they're ours. And when you allow intensive expansion, you're making it easier for the problem to grow. But you're violating all environmental legislation. Do you want me to read you the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia as regards a Rairiz farm in Vega, to an environmental impact study that can certainly go through the years of history? Isn't it the responsibility of the People's Party? Or are you not coordinated? Aren't you two coordinated? [[Applause]] Look, clean the channels. How many cleaned up? Cleansing roads and preparing roads, 600,000 euros. How much did they do? No, no, of course, I'll give you data. From 13 municipalities they only executed something in five. And there are 2020 roses pending. Of course, does the Strategic Plan for Limitia already welcome the mayors or has to meet with them before they give them permission to put him in place? Because the big problem is that you have your hands tied, you have your hands tied by your own system, by the People's Party's own system of deployment in the territory. And then we're bored. Do you want me to tell you about the analyses carried out by the Directorate General of Public Health in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 in the water supply of the Limia plain? Do you want it? An increase of 28% in the average nitrate concentration? You want us to talk about human health? Of course, the problem is serious, Counselor, and you refuse to acknowledge it. And the problem is so serious that you need solutions, and the solutions you don't put them, because you look elsewhere, you draw plans and plans, and plans and plans, but you don't run any of them, nothing. How well those 4 million of the mirror of the rural line to support the Limia agriculture, who were well there! And they're not, because you're at all meant for it to be almost nothing, almost nothing. [[Applause]] You're exonerating yourself. Look, I really don't know how to tell you that the roads are pending and the mayors of the Limia are watching, because that was a candy to satisfy the protests there was. And that little candy didn't even get to take off the paper. You're just like that. You have to give hope back to that county, you have to do something, you have to tell them what you're exposing to. Because it's not good for them to come with money. What are you going to do? Another policy like Prestige's? If you've done wrong, you'll get there with money to cover consciences. No, it's not like that. The Limia producers are very sensible and the Limia producers know very well what they bring into their hands. They bring their future. And the Limia producers, who work and who know how to work, need solutions, need training, need plans, need investments, need the future. And you're no future for The Limit, you're no future. [[Applause]] Counsellor, you know about my vehemence and you know that what I'm trying to do and what we're trying to do from BNG is not to knock out the PP; what we're trying to do is that you go and you do something practical and sensible in the territory of the boundary and the rest of the country. Because it's not just The Limitia who's threatened with vulnerability, and you and I know it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Shut up, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, first of all, let me tell you that it's not very good for you to put yourself up vehemently, because, if in the first round it was quite contained, now you saw clearly that it was what you were saying. Because I'd like first of all to explain to me what he thinks is the model of Galician gain. Because I'll give him data. In milk cow we have 6,400 farms, with an average of 63 cows in mould; and in meat cow, gentlemen, we have 19,500 farms, with an average of 22 calves. Where's the gain in extension of that one you're talking about in Galicia? But do you realize...? Yes, yes, I'm telling you what you want, which we can discuss, but we should be careful about how we sell the product. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And Galicia has a glovery basically extended in the cow. And if we even talk about barley, I can tell you that, of these 19,537 farms, we have 400 barley. So we're going to talk about the supreme Greek, we're going to talk about the 8,000 farms that we have in the supreme Greek, we're going to talk about how we give territorial basis to all these farms. And as far as possible, we are going to solve the environmental sustainability problems of our industry. By the way, he told me first that we were only doing planning, and at the end of his intervention he said that Limia's owners needed plans. I'm just that I'm no longer able to understand what positioning is like. And also, look, on his first shift, he intentionally unknown that DAFO analysis has weaknesses and threats but also strengths and opportunities. And that's where you talked a lot and a lot about all the strengths and opportunities you have, of course, The Limitia. But if I may make it clear again, I will say, firstly, that there is a legally established procedure which requires, firstly, the declaration of water affected. In addition, a decree has just been passed — just like the novelty has not given him time to see it, Mr Rivas — which clearly states that it is the Ministry of Ecological Transition who has that competence. You have to declare the waters affected and we have jurisdiction in the vulnerable zone declaration. That, by the way, I take advantage of it — and here is some representative of the region — which is not that apocalypse that Mr. Rivas is saying, but it brings with it a regulation in the amount of nitrates that can be placed on the ground. And we all agree, as well as the farmers and landowners of the Limia, that we have to go to those good practices. The training plan that you said was given in the same year 2019, but you forgot to transfer it. Therefore, in order for the vulnerable zone to be declared, we require a prior declaration of water affected. And I would also like to point out, because here we seem to be happy with this situation of vulnerable areas, that Galicia is one of the few European regions, ladies and gentlemen, with a major specialisation that has not been declared vulnerable areas for nitrate pollution. If we talk about countries like Germany or Holland, then we'll talk about concerns. Something that should be a source of satisfaction for all those who have some kind of responsibility, but whatever it is for you, too, in the German agribusiness sector. This also has its reasons, apart from the fact that our livestock is not as intensive as Mr Rivas is saying, and how it happens in other European countries, because there is a large proportion of land dedicated to the mountains and the mix of land uses, which provide a fairly effective natural green filter against diffuse pollution. Also because of the few nitrogen fertilizers used on Galicia's useful agricultural surface. The dilution capacity we have for our rainfall, which causes this rapid water renewal of our small aquifers, are all factors that affect this area. Man, do you know who says it, Mr. Rivas? Mabegondo's technicians, who don't think they're very suspicious of technical issues, so they believe us. I'm going to finish by now, but I'd like to ask you a certain stink when you talk about certain subjects. We're talking about a region where a lot of people live in agriculture and livestock and people who are doing with us too, because we're helping out, a lot of effort to adapt to environmental requirements. And I repeat here in this gallery -- and I regret that you didn't say it -- that I feel very proud of the quality of the farm production of the Limia, and in addition to the willingness of the economic agents of the Limia to solve these sustainability requirements. When we talk about what has to be done, I would also like to point out that no one should doubt the consideration that Galicia is an autonomous community that clearly has to bet on the gain in extension. More territorial basis is needed for our farmers and livestock, also for milk. Even if the cows are in the stables, they need that territorial base to have the inputs you said. That's why the Galician Union has passed a Law of Recovery of Galician Land, to provide mainly territorially our farmers and livestock, and that's why you don't understand your contradiction of voting against it, Mr Rivas. And as far as Limia is concerned, simply make manifest: Limia table, public participation of all the agents involved; Limit's strategic plan, which is culminating in and will soon present itself; and, of course, these 36 million euros of fundamental investment for the infrastructures of the region. You say we only make ads, but I think that EUR 36 million in a county is something important enough for at least the Block to defend Galicia, approve and at least say it was a good investment. I think it was the least you could ask. Facts that we extend to the whole community, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to be a region where pollution is a timely and focused problem, with a sustainable agro and a rural future where quality of life is a major claim, because, as in Galicia, it is difficult and, as in rural Galicia, nowhere. That's why we'll keep doing Galicia through the countryside, doing rural Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u86	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u87	We moved on to the next interpellation. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and two other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government with regard to the presence of attention in the bank
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u88	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Corgos. Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, let's bring this interpellation once again and ask the Government of Greece what it's doing or not doing about financial exclusion, because we understand that it's a fundamental problem for our country and because we understand above all that self-government is a tool. For you in the People's Party, we already know that more than one tool is a pin to put on the jacket or, at most, an element with which to play the play of thrones in which they are lately embedded. But the reality is that it's a tool that you could use to address problems like this one of what I'm talking about, to address and solve problems that affect the Greeks and the Greeks. And today we bring this example of bank abuse and lack of an adequate response from the board. Because we understand that you are disregarding your exclusive competences in the field of consumption, you are disregarding your competences in economic planning, and, above all, — what is worse — instead of defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, the counties that use self-government in this area is precisely to stand aside from the friendly entities of the People's Party. You were not happy to open the doors in this country for Abanca to have the first private university in our country, with the consequences that it will have. They were not happy either to give them a share for a forum of decision-making and knowledge of European funds, so that Abanca knows, I repeat, more of the European funds and the aspirations of this country than this parliament and its democratic representatives, who also had this brilliant idea of paying the Bank to put money boxes where they were closed, even though it was adding to its many benefits. In any case, it is more than an example to defend the Galicians and the Greeks in the face of the worsening banking services and abuse and beatings to prevent the closure of offices and to avoid redundancies that involve genuine conversion of the sector, for which you are not even expected. And — I insist — the only time they acted because it was worse than disease, and today we will talk about it too. We call upon him to rectify and work so that the Galician society will stop being helpless in the face of the banking greed, which we are seeing accelerate in this pandemic context. But, precisely, I wanted to insist also, before continuing, that this greed, this greed, this way of proceeding is not born with the pandemic, but that it obeys a calculated and premeditated roadmap, which took a great first step in the year 2008, to the thread of that financial crisis, but that we are now seeing how in the pandemic you see an opportunity to move in two directions. The first is to accelerate those changes started in 2008, which basically led to more concentration and more banking oligopolization. This has a result that we are seeing over the years: financial power is becoming less and less in hand, and it happens in the banking field, as we see in other areas of economy and life, e.g. electricity. The fact that few hands catch the ability to decide and regulate the market is that below there is less control capacity, less response capacity and more and more abuse, that goes on top of people, and that above all people have less and less forums to go to asking for help, fewer entities, less services, etc., etc. And secondly, this is also an opportunity for the big bank to continue on this line by sharpening public resources to a bank rescue that is already permanent, although it is not explicit as in 2008. And this results in that Galicia today has serious and important problems that come, on the one hand, because yesterday, in 2008, no appropriate decisions have been made, it has not advanced in control and public custody, and that so-called restructuring that PP and PSOE have committed because it has left more concentration, and precisely Galicia has a concentration rate above the state and European average. He has serious problems; some of them are precisely that this whole process has had a frowning of our country's financial muscle. We see it well in this economic crisis, where banking institutions have less connection with the productive fabric of the country; we see how they banked and privatized the boxes; we see how, in addition, the People's Party acted, legislation after legislation, to block that investigation commission of the Greek Parliament, which they had to access by social pressure; we have seen in these years, we are seeing a new phase accelerated by the loss of jobs pandemic. In this legislation, we've already spoken in this chamber of the ERE of Banca, of the ERE of Santander, of the ERE of CaixaBank, of the ERE of Bankia; we've talked on other occasions about how this sector has destroyed more than a hundred jobs. And we also see in this new phase of this broad banking structuring process as offices are lost, first, cash registers later, first in rural, then in other parts of the country, and so little by little it goes to an objective that is the zero office and the zero service and that everything is in virtual or telephone attention in the best of cases. And the truth is, this was happening yesterday and it's happening today. And I'll give you two data. Before the pandemic, for example, the Report of the Greek Economy 2019-2020 of the Idega is clarifying; it literally says that the Spanish financial system intensified during 2919 — an eye!, before the pandemic — the uninterrupted adjustment of capacity, with an annual reduction of 8.3% and 2.8 of the number of employees, while the turnover managed grew by 1.4%; that is, benefits increase and decrease services. Another one that serves to see what happens now because it's the latest data from the Banco de España, which you'll no doubt know, and which says that Galicia is the third most offices in the state that destroyed 189 in the last report. And, in the meantime, the Union, missing. That's why we bring this interpellation, for you to stand up, to say what valuation makes of this situation and specifically the success that is being seen from the so-called effect that you caused with that order of the cashiers, because, of course, that brilliant idea is being seen as a wonderful thing. And the bottom line, Mr. Corgos, is that here at the bank what matters, as I said in this last data you see, are your benefits, and the problem is that the Board doesn't seem to care that those benefits are also at the expense of the quality of the services that are given to the Greeks and the Greeks. And yesterday in this chamber we were discussing this same issue, and I was setting an example, the example of the baker, which we're not talking about in a sector as it might be the small business of a baker who sees him as the price of light, the price of flour and has to impact it on consumers, but here the bank gets more and more benefits. Its preferred entity, Abanca, a result of more than 300 million euros of benefit in 2021, doubling; BBVA tripled its profits; Santander had in 2021 the highest benefit of his decade. So it's clear that this is the cost of people and that it's the cost of government conferences. There's an absolutely fundamental part of responsibility in the central government. I repeat, there is a fundamental part of responsibility in the central government, state legislation. We have often brought to this proposed chamber so that state law binds certain services and obliges entities; that is a pending task that must undoubtedly be carried out. But we think that Galician Union also has a lot to do in this area, because this issue causes a lot of problems and difficulties in people's everyday lives. Lately there's been a lot of talk, to the thread of the media echo that took the case of the retired Valencian who has dedicated himself to collecting signatures, of that reduction of the cash schedule that the banking entities have made, a reduction of cash schedule that I want to remember that, although the media echo fortunately placed over the last few weeks and months this on the public lecture and there's a certain rectification, it's happening since we left the first confinement, the narrow confinement. At the exit of strict confinement the banking institutions have already done this, they have committed all the banking entities that are in the employer AEB and ECSC these cash schedules, something that violates the law, which violates competition rules, and Competition has not acted; there have been complaints of consumer associations, the IGC (the Inter-union Confederation Galicia) has filed a complaint — which has been filed — the governments have largely shut down, the Banco de España is neither expected as a regulator, and it is therefore absolutely bloody, because above all in a health context of pandemic, where logic would extend schedules, expand services, give facilities, did the opposite, unique and exclusively because of its greed and to reduce services. And, of course, if there is now a timid correction, a promise of rectification, it's uniquely and exclusively for a crisis of reputation, for a crisis that the bank is being marked by these kinds of issues and is forced to act in some way. And, of course, we'll give ourselves a time to see what comes from this issue, but there are precedents that lead us to empirical mistrust. The code of good banking practices does not work properly, the basic payment account is systematically unmet, it is the subject of complaint both at the mouth of the Galego de Consumo Institute and the Banco de España itself. These two agencies have increased the bank claims received by 45% — the Institute and the Bank of Spain by 45% — and this clearly points to problems that have not ended. They didn't end up with the bigger ones and they didn't end up with the financial exclusion as a fundamental problem of the country. And this is also marked by the latest report by the European Network against Poverty, for the most vulnerable people, those who have less income, those who have financial exclusion because they are out of the regulated labour market on ethnic issues, etc., etc. There's a huge problem here, because here in this new phase, what entities are going to do is they're left to everyone who doesn't have high wages and high assets. And, therefore, we understand that the Union must act. We would certainly like the Central Government to make the legal reforms timely, and we would also like more capacity on the part of the Union to promote a public bank. We know you're not at those peaks, but today we're talking about the minimums, which is that your Government is out of passivity, Mr. Corgos, and is putting aside the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks instead of the interests of the bank. So you have the questions, these are the issues that we wanted to put on the table, because the problems did not end with the pompous staging of the other day of the banking employer and Mrs. Calvin, and we understand that the German Government must exercise its self-government to defend the interests of this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Miguel Corgos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Presas, for your question, interesting as you usually do and what you are, in addition, as you have just said, in the lecture by the media echo, as well as you have said, but that to us, the Government of the Union, we've been busy before you had this media echo. The first thing I wanted to say to you is that the Galician Union is concerned and shares its concern about the difficulties that many Greek neighbours have in accessing these financial services, especially in rural areas, especially in the most impoverished areas. But we've not only been worried since Galician union, but we've been busy searching for and pushing solutions to promote the maintenance of these present public services. The second thing I would like to say is that this is not an exclusive problem of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, so it must be framed in its context. As you have well said, it has its origin in 2008. This was the starting point for a strong process of restructuring financial institutions throughout Spain, which is not an alien to our Autonomous Community. What I do not agree with you is the analysis of the greatest or least impact on different territories. I disagree because you are taking data from a very specific period of time, from the last year, on the basis of the Bank of Spain's report, and in order to carry out a rigorous analysis, we should take into account a broader period. Thus, if we compare the period between September 2015 and September 2021, data from which we spoke yesterday afternoon, Spain lost 56% of its banking branches. And do you know what happened in Galicia in this process? Of 36%, 20 points less than the average of Spain. These are figures, but the figures become people's services. How are these figures reflected in the territory? Well, in Spain more than four thousand and two hundred municipalities lack banking branch, according to the Banco de España report, 53% of the total municipalities; in them live 3% of the population. Let's now see the same indicators for Galicia. There are forty-five municipalities that have no bank office, 14% of the total, compared to 53% of the total municipalities of Spain, and in them live 2% of Galician population. In view of this — straight — we are facing a global, important problem — we do not reject it — but fortunately it has a smaller impact in Galicia than in all the autonomous communities. There is therefore consensus that this problem is common to all territories and that it is a problem that matters to us and that it needs a coordinated solution by all jurisdictions with competence in each territory and also that the common actions to be carried out must be promoted by the Government of the State. I would like to remind you that the Government of Galicia has been the first to address all these issues before anyone. We had made it clear from the beginning that we couldn't stand in front of the Central Government's inaction and the lack of coordinated measures. More than a year ago — not now — that is in the media focus, and we took the initiative in two ways: on the one hand, looking for solutions and alternatives within our capabilities, and on the other hand, urging the Central Government to change the current regulations to ensure the presence of financial services. Let's start with alternative solutions. By the end of 2020, and after months working with Fegamp, we have signed a collaborative protocol, seeking to facilitate access to basic banking services to the inhabitants of the rural Greek municipalities, those forty-five municipalities that do not have a presence branch, which do not have a bank office. In the framework of this initiative, in the middle of last year, on 22 June, we published an order establishing the regulatory bases for grants to encourage the provision of basic banking services, which focuses on those municipalities that lack, as I said before, presence services. What do we intend with this performance? A triple target. First, the installation of ATMs in municipal facilities. Secondly, the provision of a assistance service to those neighbors who need such assistance for their financial procedures or to hire some financial product that they need, as if it were a conventional office. And thirdly, an offer of financial training and electronic banking for neighbors to receive basic notions and learn to use banking services through new technologies. An initiative that other administrations begin to imitate now, but much more complete, because it is not limited merely to the installation of cash registers. It's an alternative that we see is attractive to the municipalities, because they don't have to make any economical approach, they just have to give in and condition the necessary spaces to install the ATMs, as well as the needs for presence and training. And the Galician Union runs entirely with the financing of these measures. In fact, this solution we think was a correct one, because today, when we solved the previous order of summoning grants, they applied for these 38 municipalities, governed by all parties, including theirs, by the BNG. In the province of Ourense: Arnoia, Raiiz de Veiga, Petín, La Teixeira, Pontedeva, Chardrexa de Queixa, Baltar, Os Blancos, Carballeda de Avia, Cinlle, Junqueira de Ambia, Junqueira de Espadanedo, Laroucheco, Lobeira, Melón, Oímbra, Piñor, Porquira, Taboadela, A Peroxia, Vilar de Santos and San Juan de Río. In the province of Coruña: Toques, Santiso, Lousam, Aranga, Cabanas, Coiros, Dodro, Paderne, Vilasantar, Vilarmajor, Dumbria and Monfero. And in the province of Lugo: The Paramão, Ribeira de Piquin, Samos and the Vice-President. The contest was settled at the end of the year. Oh, surprise! The adjudicatory entity is the one that has the most implantation in the territory of Galicia, which reaches 97.7% of the neighbours of Galicia and which has the most implantation in 85% of its municipalities. And in addition, it was also the one who put the highest to finance the cost of this service. Because the cost of autonomics is much less than what you're saying. They're talking about the amount for which the call order came out, but you must remove a zero from the three million euros you're saying, both you, Mrs. Presas, and your voice, and as you did yesterday afternoon Mr. Caballero too. The cost of this measure is ten times lower, specifically EUR 300,000 per year. So, Your Honor, I ask you to also correct this information that you're giving because it doesn't correspond to reality. Do you know how much it means to each county? EUR 667 per month. Let us go, for example, to the council of Santiso, where BNG rules and has applied for this service. Do you know how much your neighbor is supposed to be? I'll tell you what, 43 cents a month. Don't you think it's worth providing these financial services to the neighbors at that cost? I think the mayors and the neighbors believe it that way, because they're suing us. [[Applause]] This is about alternative solutions that within our capabilities we are carrying out as the German Government. I have now explained to you the other course of action, in which the Central Government is changing the current rules to ensure the presence of financial services. At this point again Galicia has moved forward to the media focus and what many agencies and institutions are now asking for, such as the Organisation of Consumers and Users, or even the Generalitat de Cataluña, where they govern their nationalist colleagues, who have just presented an initiative last week for the Central Government to be what requires banks to have cash in all municipalities. It is curious: Catalan nationalists recognize that the competences of this matter are central government. Well, the German Government, already last September, in a letter sent by counsellor Valeriano Martínez, called upon the Central Government to coordinate and plan at the state level to ensure the accessibility of the entire population to financial services regardless of where they lived. We also asked you for a detailed study on the current financial market and a package of comprehensive measures to address the problem at national level, which covered banking concentration, competition and access to financial services, especially in rural areas. We also demand a common regulatory framework that regulates the universal provision of basic financial services, so that it is guaranteed its provision to all citizens, with standards of quality and at a price accessible to all — as I say — and that now is an extended demand. So -- and I'm finished now -- a constant concern and occupation on the part of the Government of Greece, which will soon come to a solution for citizens who currently lack present financial services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u92	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u93	Well, Mr. Corgos, to be so worried about you in the Greek Government, he gave a few ideas. I drew the conclusion that they don't intend to do anything but continue with a timid, laudable but insufficient, work of the Galego Consumo Institute, that we believe it should be strengthened — it's a fundamental part of our questions — and basically, they're still inflating money to the private bank so that it can maintain, timidly too, some services that are closing; that is, a round business from the employer's point of view; it's wonderful: you close the chiringuit and the Junta pays you so that the openings There are no cracks in that plan, there is no effect called, because the banks, as they are very good, like wonderful people working for beneficence, will keep the services knowing there can be an administration that helps them finance them. [[Applause]] Look, I'm just referring to the scandalous question of the subject of the boxers of the board, because we've already discussed this on other occasions and we've asked the rectification here again and again, but since you stopped at that, I'm going to do it now. We know the data perfectly well. I didn't get into the three million issue, which I know perfectly well that it's for several years. But it's just to look, like it was a euro, like it was a euro, with each entity that was rescued with nine billion, over nine billion euros from the public era, Mr. Corgos, that started to have benefits the following year and half, and that as if it were an alternative that cost us a penny. What we're saying is that for that private bank what needs to be done is ambitious regulations and political pressure, that they could do it from the scope of the powers of the Union, and not give it a penny of the public era so they can continue to increase their profits, fire people in the country and abuse society. It's just, really...! [[Applause]] And even more so when you first sought to favor the bank. Because I remember yesterday too, in the debate that we had, as in the previous legislation, questioning our beloved Valeriano Martínez, we told him: We can make a bet, we can put into an envelope today which entity will win this contest and when the contest is checked, we open it; and, in the end, because time gave us reason, Mr. Corgos. And look, this question of minimum services like a cashier and some worker mobility is something the bank was already doing, it's not an innovation that had occurred to the Board, because in the mosque years and years ago it will open a worker from Abanca to the office on the days of the fair, and as in the mosque, because in so many places the rest of the country. The question is what there is today, and this links the question of how many entities has lost Galicia; I gave the latest data from the Bank of Spain, because they are the most recent, simply. The question is not whether, globally, regardless of the annual series, we can look for one in which Galicia is the sixth, the seventh, the tenth, or the second community that most entities have lost. The question is, what's enough for the Greeks and the Greeks, who can't live without a bank account, because no one can live in this country without a bank account, to have minimally decent services? No, no, no, no. The answer is no. And above all, it is that, above all, the banking institutions, of course, because you give here some cost of how much impact on each neighbor, as if later the neighbors were not sanded by the banking commissions, before which neither does it regulate itself, and before which no instruments are created at the shelter of the Galician Consumer Institute to claim in mass and to pressure. And I'm going back to give an example of banking and confinement. When we were all confined to our home, worried about what the future of the planet was, in the direction of the banks, there was someone who said, "Come on, let's go up now, let's take advantage of everyone's being sloppy, who's not thinking about taking money from the cashier, we're going to increase bank fees. That, if it has been partially corrected, it was by social pressure that there was later, but it's an absolutely indecent dynamic for which people are paying more and more for services that are not minimal and that are not good. So there's a worsening of conditions. And then there is a fundamental question that is what we want to insist on, which is the serious problem of financial exclusion and that the Union has to create instruments of support and strengthen the Instituto Galego de Consumo, ask for legislative changes to the state, make collective demands and exert political pressure, which is the financial exclusion of many Greeks and Greeks. Because these days we're talking a lot about older people, which, of course, an exclusive digitization pushes them out and you have to take care of the vulnerability that they're at a certain age that they end up managing your bills your grandchildren or a neighbor, because in the bank they don't do it and they don't care about you. That's a very serious social problem, we don't want to take away its importance, but there's another one, too, that the bank's operation is to expel customers, and that there's a lot of Greeks and Greeks who, with the lack of compliance with the code of good practice and the basic payment account, are seeing themselves being expelled from the financial market, and so there's also a problem where the Board has to exercise its powers in terms of consumption and defend them. So the list of duties is a lot and we don't take any importance to the fact that unfortunately there is a very large part that corresponds to the state, but also there you, who are sometimes so eager to campaign against the state, because they can also add positive and make proposals. In any case, it is a responsibility of its own, exclusive powers in the matter of consumption, and political power, the power of pressure that gives a government. So don't stand aside from the interests of the bank as a common noun, or from the bank as its own name, and stand aside from the interests of the neighbouring country. We will, of course, bring a motion with proposals so they can stop discharging their responsibilities and act from the German Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u94	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, councillor of the Fairy and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u95	Thank you. He has no doubt, Your Honor, that our interests are part of the needs of the Greek neighbourhood and that we are exercising our competences, which are quite captive in this age, and also require the Central Government to make the relevant regulatory changes and also to require financial entities that face their social responsibility as well. I remind you that the German Government is not only concerned, but has been busy for a long time now in favour of access to financial services in rural areas. The Galician Union has long worked and anticipated alternatives, proposals and solutions, to which more and more organisms and entities now join. The hemerotheque reflects one's actions and the other's. So while you were criticizing the action of the Galician Council and the agreement with Fegamp, from the German Government, we were consensual about measures with the municipalities affected, among them with the municipalities of Toques or Santiso, of those I suppose will know the mayors, because they are from their party. While the BNG criticized Junta for taking measures in favour of the neighbors, the mayors of the BNG asked us to implement those services, probably because the neighbors demanded it. So we should agree whether this measure favors and solves the needs of our neighbours or not. You say no, but your mayors tell us yes, possibly because your neighbors are demanding these services. Since June we have made it clear that we have to pay attention to the mayors, who see reality and the problems of their neighbours, because, of course, it is much easier to get behind a sign and simply criticize than to manage the problems of the neighbors; to criticize, in addition, initiatives that are being developed throughout Spain and by all administrations. I suppose the BNG will also be against mails installing cashiers in municipalities across Spain; or I suppose the BNG will criticise its friends of Republican Left, that in the Tarragona Deputy they have an agreement with CaixaBank for the installation of cashiers in small municipalities; or I suppose the BNG will be against the Barcelona Deputy, where nationalists co-govern, announced a similar measure last week. And — the most recent case —. I suppose the BNG will also be against the agreement of the last Friday of the Government of Aragon and the three deputies of that community to put cashiers in all municipalities that do not have them — which are more than half —, 400 and 731 municipalities, where the 4% of the population of Aragon lives; and, by the way, spending the Zaragoza Deputy only on this measure more than one million euros. I'm telling you because the BNG co-governed in three Members and, as I know, no solution has come to this common problem. Your Honor, the reality is that all these administrations have in common concern about the quality of life of the rural population, and are interested in solving their problems. Yes, the initiatives that drive the Galician Union — as described above — are more ambitious and are not limited merely to the installation of cashiers: we seek a physical presence in the municipalities through assistance and financial training services that must be developed in person, with staff of the financial entity itself. And I'm sure there will be more initiatives in this direction because, I insist, they are increasingly demanding. In this sense, I'm going to read the recommendation that you recently made to the Consumer and User Organization — which is textually translating it into English — "It's unlikely that people in the present generation will become digital users in the short term, so you need collaboration agreements, for example, with municipalities, that allow the installation of ATMs into municipal units." Your Honor, right on the line of work in Galicia, but it's been over a year. I'm done, Your Honor. All this work driven by the German Government for quite some time now and continuously allows us to give today two good news that I hope you and your group also consider positive. The first is that the financial institution with the largest deployment of the territorial network in Galicia confirmed that it will not close any offices in those municipalities where it is the only financial entity; and this has already done so, not in the advertised early agreement, but on February 9th. And the second one, which in March will begin to serve the cashiers and the financial and training services to the neighbours in the municipalities that so requested. So every week, Iranians deploying these financial services in 38 municipalities that don't have a custom service, with bank offices, and that requested it, to bring a solution to more than 5,000 Greeks and Greeks that need it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u96	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to item 6 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Da María Elena Suárez Sarmiento and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the project they are planning to put the Government of Galicia to work in Arousa in order to improve sanitation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u97	We begin with the question of Mrs. Maria Elena Suárez Sarmiento, of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want. Give a voice to Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Thank you, Counselor, for being here today to answer this question of so much interest to Vilagarcia. As we all know, the law establishes that the municipalities are responsible for their sanitation network and those responsible for ensuring the supply of drinking water to the homes, controlling discharges and managing the sewage treatment plants. As a villager, I must regret the poor state of my city's municipal sanitation network, which presents a number of problems that have been going on for too long and which are generating a serious prejudice not only for citizenship but also for the environmental quality of the Arousa River. On the one hand, these deficiencies cause floods when rains occur — even if they are not too intense — which in turn lead to an increase in the circulatory collapse — which usually exists — caused by the disastrous decisions of the local government in the area of mobility and trafficking. Another consequence of the poor sanitation in Vilagarcia are the spilly recurrents that bring ongoing openings of files to the Vilagarcia Town Hall with their corresponding sanctions and which, in addition, cause injections of contaminants to the Arousa River. Finally, it is necessary to note that municipal mismanagement in sanitation may result in a decrease in the proper health assurance of the water we consume. As I said, the resolution of these problems corresponds to the Vilagarcia Council, but, in a new example of institutional collaboration, the Galician Council of Infrastructure, which you address, has recently approved at the Board of Directors the improvement of the Vilagarcia sanitation system funded entirely by the Government of Autonomics and whose investment amounts to nearly ten million euros; a project with which you intend to undertake the necessary actions to improve the Vilagarcia sanitation system and which, together with the expansion of the EDAR announced by the Union a few months ago, will allow the reduction of discharges and will contribute decisively to the improvement of the Arousa River's environmental health, with a total investment of 33.5 million euros. So in the People's Parliamentary Group, we would like to ask you: What is the project you are planning to do with the German Government in Arousa in order to improve our sanitation? For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u100	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, we share your concern. Clearly, the sanitation of the rivers in Galicia is a strategic goal for this government, which is fundamental to public health and also because it influences such important economic activities in Galicia, such as fishing, seafood, aquaculture and even tourism. And, as you said, I believe that here in this House we are all aware that the competence of sanitation, clearance and supply are municipal competences. Still, we raised our shoulders from Galician Junta and helped the Town Councils. In the last decade, in river sanitation, we have already invested 500 million euros helping the municipalities to clean the rivers. In the Arousa River, the Vilagarcia Town Hall has not sidelined this effort that we are making from the Galician Union to help carry out the necessary sanitation and purification works. In particular, the Arousa River, along with the Burgo River, was one of the first rivers where we implanted and developed a local sanitation plan that allowed us to know gradually the deficiencies and define the works and investments needed to alleviate the problem of sanitation. And thanks to that local sanitation plan we're promoting, Vilagarcia today has a very important tool to better exercise those responsibilities of sanitation and purification. Despite being competent, as I say, of the municipalities, in the Arousa area today we have already invested 70 million euros to improve water quality, environmental responsibility and economic and social responsibility. And we keep working to reduce problems and improve water quality, and improve sanitation and purification in the rivers of Galicia and, of course, in Vilagarcia. We are making an effort to help — from the technical point of view and from the economic point of view — the Vilagarcia Council, because we are aware of these real problems that exist and of the important spills as a result of the poor state of the municipal network. We're talking about solids, seawater entry and inefficiency in collectors that really cause important spills to the Con River, which, after all, are also poured into the Arousa River. We want to alleviate those problems, so we help, and we directly assume that solution alone. We just bid ten million euros on the renewal of the collector in Arousa's Vilagarcia to put an end to those spills that are being provoked in the municipal network, and we want an integral solution along with the debugger. This comprehensive solution with this network of collectors and the debugger will reduce by 97% the current discharges of the sanitation network in Vilagarcia to the Arousa River; therefore, a reduction of 97% of the discharges that the sanitation of Vilagarcia makes to our creek. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u101	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u102	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I would like to convey to you my thanks for the commitment decided by Vilagarcia from the department you are directing, both as regards the Sanitation Plan with the total investment of EUR 33.5 million that we are talking about in this intervention as in the project of the intermodal node, consistent with the connection of the train station to the bus station, with an investment of more than €1.3 million and which will entail a major advance to my city, or the demanding work of improving mobility between the parishes of Bamio and Carril. From the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, we want to acknowledge the continued concern and occupation of the Galician Union in improving the supply, sanitation and purification services of the Greek municipalities. In fact, it is public and well known the technical and economic involvement of the self-government in this matter, in contrast to the failure of some administrations to compromise such as, for example, the Deputy of Pontevedra, which in theory has within its functions support the municipalities, especially the smaller ones, but in this matter it is neither expected nor expected. They tell us that the actions planned in Vilagarcia are part of a broader programme that the Government of Galicia has been developing in recent years with the ultimate objective of achieving the comprehensive sanitation of the Arousa River and that they have assumed an important investment by the Galician Union, which, apart from improving the quality of people's daily life, contributes to preserving the natural environment, tourism, fishing and seafood. Counsellor, I would like to know from this second time that I have been told about the concrete actions of the Sanitation Improvement Project in the process of bidding by the Infrastructure Council to be developed in the Municipality of Vilagaría de Arousa for an amount of EUR 10 million. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. Well, we have a computer problem today. We've been in trouble all morning. I'll try to control time from here. So, for the closing shift of this question, you have the word of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u104	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, we are of course concerned about the impact of the malfunction of the municipal network of Vilagarcía; the impact it has on the quality of the waters and also on the professionals of the sea and therefore on the economic sectors that work at sea. In that sense, we reserve 10 million euros to improve the municipal sanitation network in the city hall of Vilagarcía, an important project that involves renewing the network of collectors on the avenue of Rodrigo Mendoza, two storm tanks around the square and also in the Fexdega area. We'll also renew collectors on Garcia Caamaño Street, also the necessary pumping and the impulse network; in total, we're talking about a kilometre of drives and also a kilometer of impulses, and those two storm tanks. It is therefore an ambitious and important action to renew that network of Vilagarcía collectors, which is causing an impact on the quality of the waters of the Con River and therefore on the quality of the waters of the Arousa River. We want an efficient and renovated system; and above all well-planned, because these are works that are the result of planning and knowledge and this local sanitation plan that we've been driving from Galicia. These works of the collector we licit them in February at 9.8 million euros. They are being tendered and the bid deadline for the companies concerned will end on 11 March. It's a 24-month deadline; therefore, our forecast is to start those renovations of the municipal sanitation system in Vilagarcía at the end of summer with 10 million euros. It will be an important milestone to address the current problems, and therefore an important work to start these works — as I say — at the end of summer, within 24 months. Together with the debugger, in which we are also working, which we have planned and which we have also reserved, moving forward in that credit for that debugger, what we want to achieve is that, thanks to these ambitious and comprehensive works, we reduce by 97% the spills that currently give the Vilagarcia sanitation network to the Arousa stream. Therefore, we will facilitate the work of the sea sector and improve the quality of water thanks to these works. This expresses the concern, knowledge and work of the Galician Union for improving the quality of water in the rivers, thanks here, in the City Hall of Vilagarcia, for mobilizing the renewal of the collection network and a new 33 million-euro debugger that we want to perform and which will be accompanied by that law that we want to process, because it is as important to do works like exporting them well. That's why, thanks to that law that we will bring to this Parliament in the first quarter, the Vilagarcía Town Hall will be able to order the debugger to Galician Waters, and at no cost greater than it is being charged to its neighbours today. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u105	Thank you, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, she said Vilagaría. Yeah, I understood that, huh! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes. I've always understood Vilagaría. But, well, this isn't... We're not going to argue here now that... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, we all agree, man! We all agree, Ourense is Ourense, it's all over there. It's all right. No problem. [[Murmurs.]] Come on, let's go! Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the future of the concession of the hydroelectric power plant Ponte do Inferno, in the River Verdugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u106	Mr. Manuel Lourenzo Sobral of the Galician Nationalist Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u107	Thank you very much, President. On February 8, 2017, two months before the end of the concessional deadline at the hydroelectric power station of the Bridge of Hell, in the River Verdugo, the BNG signed an initiative on the termination of the concession. Together doesn't answer. On 5 April 2018, BNG's new initiative on the capital of Hell, Article 9 this time. Together, evasive or not responding. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] On 3 August 2019, a new initiative on expired hydroelectric concessions. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] Together, evasive or not responding. September 2020, a new request for documentation, this time referring to the legal proceedings of the capital of the bridge of hell, of the expiry file. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] Together, evasive or not responding. On 4 November 2020, a new question on the expired concession at the hydroelectric power plant Bridge of Hell. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] Together, evasive or not responding. On March 11th, October 7th, 2021... BNG, Adega, Pladever... and Junta, evasive or unresponsive. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, only the contempt of this House that demonstrates all this documentation with evasive or unanswered answers should cause any government to melt its face of shame. But, of course, the worst thing about it is that it happens like on the networks: "what will come next will surprise you." [[Applause]] And if we're going to see what's going on, what's shown is that the board of Gaulza's board of directors had the sole purpose of supporting and defending the interests of their friendly companies, in this case, Naturgy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see the panorama. If it's too easy to see! [[Murmurs.]] The concession to Naturgy, in the hydroelectric power plant of Ponte do Inferno, ended in April 2017. Look, the BNG, Pladever, Adega and other organizations have been demanding for two months before, since February 2017, the termination process began. The board does not move a paper until, thanks to the pressure of Addega and Pladever in December 2019, it has to start a file. And how does it work out? Let's see if we hit him! By publishing the finalization of that file ten days after the legal period has expired. With which, we have to start the file again as Naturgy continued to turbinate, while the same as those who get to know us in the light receipt each month had the benefit of the Board of Galicia and while attacking the flow of the River Verdugo, the bottom of the river and the sea-banks. [[Applause]] Counsellor, will you find this attitude of receipt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u108	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u109	Thank you, President. Your Honor, of evasives, nothing. This is a government that gives a face. And I'd like you to face it, if you're so worried about hydroelectric uses, when mine and Sil have been emptied! [[Murmurs.]] Evasives, you. [[Applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, I am surprised that you ask me not to comply with the procedures and to violate the law. I think the answer to your question is obvious, so obvious that we're going to comply with the law, no less. Because we're a responsible government that's face-to-face. And for evasives, you, and we saw it yesterday in the transport plan, evasives... no comments, besides. [[Murmurs.]] We're a government that gives a face, well you know someone who's next to you, that we're face-to-face. So we will comply with the law. We know the law. The Galicia-Costa demarcation is our competence, also the Water Law, the Water Control Regulation and the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan, which I hope you know. So we're following the regulations on a case-by-case basis, because here's not a general solution, if that's what you're asking me to do. Suddenly, a general solution. No, every thing has its peculiarity, case by case and step by step, but fulfilling the procedures. Don't ask me to breach the procedure. We're going to go on, because we're a responsible government, handling things, with the relevant reports of every water service in Galicia. I think some general considerations are appropriate. You know that the hydroelectric uses in Galicia-Costa are a minimum of those in Galicia. The biggest ones are the Mino-Sil. But if you care about hydroelectric uses, we'll have to talk about hydroelectric uses! [[Murmurs.]] I'm Mine-Sil. What have you done with the emptying of the coronations of the Mine-Sil—apart from the drought, which I see they don't care at all, and that they are evasive, evasive, evasive—because they are partners of the Government of Spain and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition? If they worry so much, why don't they ask me about these hydroelectric uses? [[Applause]] We anticipate the general interest in these hydroelectric uses and also in those in Galicia-Costa. Of course, we will continue to work, in spite of its evasives in Galicia-Costa and in hydroelectric uses, both by Galicia-Costa and by the Mine-Sil, we will examine them often and, of course, by assuming the general interest. But, Your Honor, don't ask me to skip the legal proceedings. We're here to face it, we always give it to it, and I'd like to tell you that, since you're so worried about hydroelectric uses, there are hydroelectric uses of great silence in Mino-Sil, but what I see on that bench are evasive and more evasive in the hydroelectric uses of Mino-Sil. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u110	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u111	Of course they're face-to-face, Counselor, but he's a very hard-to-face for the sake of Naturgy. [[Applause]] And since they're talking about compliance with the protocols and procedures, because you see, the prosecutor's office sees an environmental crime, the environment, in the grip of hell. Here he forgot to keep the law and forgot to keep the protocols. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] [[Applause]] Neighbors, from Ponte Caldelas in this case, denounce an excess of energy production in the dam of Ponte do Inferno, in the River Verdugo. Here he forgot to keep the law and forgot to keep the protocol. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] Soukomaori. It is done — that we no longer say so — that the Council of Soutomaior initiates the procedure, asks for the procedure, to withdraw the dam of the Bridge of Hell in the River Verdugo. [[Murmurs.]] They don't even listen to your mayors, Counselor! They also forget to comply with the law and fail to comply with the procedures. [[Applause]] Look, Counsellor, you have two options: either come here and say that everyone -- ecologists, the BNG, their mayors and the council around the Verdugo -- is wrong and that you didn't know anything -- and in that case you're incompetent -- or what would be worse: that you know something, that if you knew what was going on, and that consciously let that record expire to benefit Naturgy, that's what they did. And in that case, what proves is what you are: a structure at the service of the friendly companies of the People's Party to benefit them; to benefit them by going over the interests of the Soutomaior Council, to benefit them by going over the interests of the seafarers and the seafood banks at the bottom of the river. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u112	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u113	And to benefit you by going over this House itself and by fulfilling the minimums, which is to respond to the representatives of this people in this Parliament. I don't follow the law, and I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u114	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u115	...but it's a very tough face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u116	Thank you. For closing the question, the Infrastructure and Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u117	Thank you, President. Because you speak so loudly I won't skip the procedure. I'll follow the procedure. [[Laughter]] I think we're close and we hear each other well. [[Applause]] So I think I'm speaking clearly and that we can speak clearly, but, in any case, because speak louder, we're not going to skip the procedure, we're going to follow the law. In that sense, I would ask a respect for all those who work in Galician waters, and not for me anymore, but for those who work in Galician waters, because I am already used to insinuations and, of course, to the insinuations that have nothing to do with reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I say: I suppose you'll know what the conditions for extinction of a concession are, I suppose you'll know, if you know so much about the law and procedure I have to apply. It's four: term end, waiver of the concessionaire, expropriation and also non-compliance. So, when one of these four cases happens, Galician Waters makes a comprehensive report, analysed on a case-by-case basis... I'm sure you, that when there's a comprehensive report with the corresponding resolution, we'll communicate it, which we face, we don't give evasive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But here you won't sign the Water Technician, whatever you want, your finger. Here we follow a procedure. You do seem to want to sign whatever you say because you do. We need to analyze things, see environmental impacts, social impacts, economic impacts and everything. Not because you say it has to be like that. Your Honor, I believe it is a matter for the procedures and technicians in the waters of Galicia that sign the files. Therefore, it may be viable or not, you will have to justify whether it is viable or not, and, in case it is not viable, as the original state rests. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Don't want to decentralize me, I'm answering. But, look, I can also draw the compliments of Mine-Sil. What about the evasives? If you care so much about hydroelectric uses, Naturgy and all those hydroelectric companies, why are they with evasive uses of Mino-Sil, which we are in advance of drought? [[Murmurs.]] Oh, no! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's nothing wrong, there we are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u118	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u119	There's nothing else to attack Galician Union here... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u121	And with the compliments of Mine-Sil, as they depend on the Government of Spain, because we almost shut up, evasive... because, well, they're our partners. [[Murmurs.]] At the Hell Bridge, we're finalizing the reports, taking into account the peculiarities of that hydroelectric use, of course, yes, with the relevant technical reports and the relevant resolution, not because you tell me. And therefore the procedure is regulated, with the technical report and within a time limit of the hearing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There will be hearing time, don't worry, for this procedure. And the result of this report will be issued on the basis of general interest, taking into account social impact, economic impact, natural and heritage impact. So as long as we shout, we're not going to skip the procedure. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u122	Next question. Question by Mr Adrián Pardo López and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Board of Rental Bonus Mozo approved by Royal Decree 42/2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u123	Mrs. María Begoña Freire Vázquez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u124	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. On January 19th, Royal Decree No. 42/2022 of January 18th was published in the Official State Gazette, so the Young Rental Bonus is regulated, along with the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025. That publication was preceded by many announcements for months, but it was also not concrete whether it was a timely program for a year or two, or whether it was a program planned for continuity over time; even if it was indicated that it would be a timely incentive only to call the next general election. Well, after the expectation generated for months and months by the announcement of the Bono housing for the monthly rent of 250 euros, studies show that the percentage of young people who could benefit from this aid is merely residual. In fact, the state government had already indicated that it planned to reach 70,000 people throughout the national territory, which means a minimum percentage, less than 1%, of people between the ages of 18 and 35. In Galicia, according to estimates made by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, this aid will reach only 1.4 % of potential beneficiaries. From the German Government it has repeatedly insisted on taking into account the approaches and the experience of the different autonomous communities, which, in addition to having exclusive competence in the area of housing, are the ones that manage the different programmes. The same applies to the State Housing Plan 2022-2025, also published in the BOE of January 19, and also to the future State Housing Act in consensus, in prior consultation with the various autonomous communities; it is more, invading exclusive and autonomous competences in housing matters, as the General Council of the Judiciary has already stated. In the end, the Official Gazette of the State confirms what has already been feared: that the measures adopted by the Central Government without consensus are not adapted to the characteristics of each territory. Since the Galician Union it has already moved to the Central Government that the mechanisms of access to the Young Rental Bonus do not prioritize the Greeks with greater needs, so that it would not meet the objectives to which it should go. For this reason, we would like to ask you, Counsellor, what does the Galician Board of the Young Rental Bonus, approved by Royal Decree 42/2022? For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Freire. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Freire, as you have just remembered, Galicia has unique housing skills. So he's been exercising them for decades, and he's doing it with responsibility and seriousness. In recent months we are witnessing an attempt by the Central Government to interfere and recentralize many of the competences that we have in our autonomous communities in Madrid, something that is unheard and does not make sense, imposing its criteria and making decisions without counting on the opinions of the autonomous communities, which we have been conducting for years. And, of course, they don't even count on the reality of the population or the singularity of the different autonomous communities. The main example of this initiative — you have just remembered — is the text of the future State Housing Law, against which we have already manifested ourselves since the Galician Union, other autonomous communities have already manifested themselves and so has the General Council of the Judiciary, but yesterday it was also going to the lecture and the Galician Competition Commission, which we have here in our autonomous community. But the Government is ignoring all of these attention calls and therefore we have nothing left but to go through this text through the judicial route, because of the negative consequences it may have for Galicia. But this isn't the only trap we've found on the road. We also find that unilaterally approved the State Plan 2022-2025, as well as the Youth Rental Bonus, which you ask me about today, and for which, according to the distribution established by the State, Galicia will receive 11.4 million euros, which comes to be 5.7% of the total of the 200 million that the State Administration has set up for this bond. A bond that, as the text says, would have to be for two years, the year 2022 and the year 2023, but we only have the county for the year 2022. We regret that, after great expectations that were created between youth, in the end, what we are going to find is that only 1.4% of young Greeks who might have a choice will receive this bonus. In total, we have about two hundred and eighty thousand young people who would meet these requirements and only four thousand young Greeks will have this option. But let's go further. It's not just about numbers, it's about who should get this bonus, and here there's no difference. When it comes to non-competitive competition, what comes first will be what takes you first, without any difference if you have more or less need, something that by the autonomous communities we also made known at the Sectoral Conference. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u127	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Freire Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u128	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer and your work. Of course, for this parliamentary group it is worrying that all the measures being taken by the Central Government in the area of housing are decided by the back door, without taking into account the opinion, more than valid, of the various autonomous communities; without taking into account their experience in management, because in the end it is the communities that have to convene, instruct, process and resolve the files and requests; without taking into account the characteristics of each territory and the reality of its population; and the legally established mechanisms of collaboration and coordination, as could be, in this case, the Sectoral Conference on Housing. It is worrying that the Central Government dares to process a text of housing law which is unconstitutional, about what was previously warned by the various autonomous communities, even by Galicia, and about what was also warned by the General Council of the Judiciary and also by the Competition Council. You were talking, Counselor, about the negative consequences this text could have for Galicia. As for the Bono Alugueiro Mozo, she said, Counsellor, that, according to the division originally established by the State, Galicia would receive 5.70 % by this year 2022. Given the time since that publication, last January 19th, in the Official State Bulletin, we would like to ask whether the funds corresponding to each autonomous community for the management of the programme are already transferred to the various communities, specifically Galicia, and what is the formula for their application and to proceed, in their case, to their summons. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Freire. For the closure of this question, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I thank you, Mrs. Freire, for your question because it is essential that Thursdays have information and, above all, transparency. We're starting in March and we haven't received the funds yet. And I want to remember different dates, such as October 6, when Mr Sánchez, all over, announced these funds for the young - October 6, Sánchez announces the bonus - or as January 18, which is approved at the Council of Ministers, and February 2, the Sectoral Conference is convened. It seems that tomorrow we're going to have the first multilateral this one with the general directors; that is, we're still starting the way. That means we're going to be in March and the funds haven't been transferred yet. It's been five months, it's five months of ads!, where the boys and girls are calling and we still can't give them answers, because we're still negotiating as if we can request or not, after we've all required a single platform for all of Spain, because mobility is allowed, with which it's best that we're perfectly coordinated or, if not, there can be young gales — the few who are going to receive them — who still feel damaged above. So we still have to sign an agreement — which is how it's done — and we have to transfer the budget. We know of that budget, which is 11.4 million for the year 2022, but we don't know what's going to happen in the year 2023. And if it's important to know the budget, of course, it's also important to know the deadlines and how it should be done. And speaking of deadlines, we watched over the last few days for the government delegate to walk through different peoples or cities little less than by calling the IGVS officials vague or mean, because he says we are not going and therefore we do not withdraw the summons. And it makes me laugh, because how we're going to remove calls, if we don't have budget, and we don't even know what we have to do about it! That's what I'm saying in that sense. As I can also say from the State Housing Plan, which, as you know, moves from nine to thirteen bases. They're summons that clash with those that have been implanted by the autonomous community as well. But I can put another example: on February 14th and 15th, in relation to the European funds - which we have talked about so much about them - we have still been asked for basic changes. With which I don't know how the delegate can exist us or can tell us: look, they're not doing anything, they're ready and they're slow! For this is the reality; with which this song of "Let's tell truths"... the truths are on the dates that I just told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u131	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Paloma Castro Rey and D. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the request to the People's Valedora for a report on possible cases of child abuse by persons linked to educational centres of the Catholic Church
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u132	Have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. At yesterday's plenary session we discussed a non-legislative proposal calling for Parliament's condemnation of sexual abuse of minors within the Catholic Church and support for victims, in addition calling for the cooperation of the Government of the Union in any investigation aimed at clarifying these cases. In this debate, the People's Party followed its line of relativizing the role of the Church in abuse, defending that child abuse is taking place in all areas; it even nuanced that with greater intensity around the family nucleus, and emphasized the policies of the Union focused on fighting or combating these situations. In addition, much attention was drawn to us as the People's Party Member greatly measured her words when she referred to the possibility - unquestionable, on the other hand - that some members of the Catholic Church could also give themselves cases - said on several occasions with a small mouth - and also when they were perpetrated by some members of the Catholic Church. This attitude reflects the influence and power that the Church still has in our society and makes it clear why many paedophiles hide behind this superiority that allows to belong to this institution so that they can act with total impunity. This has been so for many years and it's still now, because we don't forget that the problem is still there. Therefore, it is necessary for the Catholic Church to leave that wall of silence, false promises or audits on the part and begin to actively engage in clarifying the truth, condemning the culprits, restoring the victims and preventing this from happening. The Church must collaborate actively and unequivocally with justice in the clarification of the truth, in the identification of the paedophiles and in the unveiling of the captors. And that's an obligation, because if we apply the criminal law, which is the same for all, this continued neglect can also constitute a crime, and also because this is the only way to make justice. But you also have to collaborate with other public bodies in those alleged where the victim died or the case is prescribed and these victims cannot be repaired within justice. So today, Counsellor, we bring this question here to the full, aware that this situation of abuse does not understand borders and that many cases are also emerging in our country. We therefore believe that there is a need for a singularised response and therefore we want the Government to clarify whether it would be willing to charge the People's Valley, as high commissioner of the Galician Parliament for defence within our territory of the rights covered by Title I of the Constitution, which prepares a report on all these possible cases of child abuse by persons linked to educational centres of the Catholic Church in Galicia, fruit — of course — of a previous work in which both the victims' groups and the Catholic Church and representatives of public administrations cooperate in order to contribute to the clarification of this truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. Thank you very much. Time's up. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. I believe that citizens are tired that there is a discrepancy, when at the bottom — and I think in this matter — there is a broad consensus. As was shown yesterday in the non-law motion voted in this very Galician Parliament, sexual abuse is an absolutely repugnant and reprehensible act, whoever the author is. I suppose we'll agree on this. It is necessary to investigate cases of sexual abuse, pursue those who practiced or practiced it and support those who suffered or suffered them. I suppose we'll agree on this, too. The fight against sexual abuse of minors is a priority for Galicia and is therefore a priority for the Union. That's why we've worked to eradicate it for so many years. First of all, in awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns: campaigns like "37 thousand smiles", "We lit the light" or "One in five", the latter implemented in collaboration between two advisors, the Education Council and the Social Policy Council, together with the three Greek universities and the Amino professional association. Gal. Secondly, we work with an integral approach to matter, and so Galicia has been counting for more than two decades on a protocol for early detection of these cases and urgent intervention on all of them. Thirdly, we also work with absolute support for victims of abuse. We have a program that specializes in intervention with people who are victims of sexual abuse, which we have developed from the hands of the Children's Foundation. I understand that all these initiatives count on the support and absolute support of the Welsh House. Starting from that base, Mrs. Castro, I'd like to ask you for a final consensus. Do you think that you should go deep in research so that all cases can be expanded, whatever the context in which they were given, and support the people who suffered or suffered in all areas, without exception? This was the amendment tabled by this House's majority group in the Galician Parliament, and the Galician Nationalist Block preferred not to vote for it. We would really like to know what the Socialist Party of Galicia thinks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u136	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rei.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u137	Thank you, President. Counsellor, zero tolerance with child abuse. That's clear to all of us. But I also tell you that you can't minimize an existing reality, because that can turn them into accomplices. [[Applause]] It is necessary to do justice not only with a situation of general abuse, but also with that situation of helplessness and incomprehension that has suffered many victims for years, and the reality is what it is. Currently, several criminal investigations have been opened in Galicia following complaints filed in schools linked to the Catholic Church. And that's why from the Socialist Party we understand that it is necessary, from institutions, to contribute to the determination of facts and responsibilities, to repair these victims and to plan public policies aimed at the prevention of these abuses. This relativization that you are doing — and what they are doing — is hardly understandable if we consider that the Catholic Church was the main educational institution in our country throughout history, even playing a very important role in the social sphere, in the educational field, because millions of minors have passed through their hands throughout history, without comparison or any other institution. I think we're giving solutions and we think we can't look the other way. Enough to silence an institution like the Catholic Church! I believe that we must rely on the independence and ability of the People's Valedora to carry out this research rigorously and objectively to reach the truth of these abuses and finally be able to do justice to all the people who are suffering from silence and incomprehension. And I ask you, Counselor, if you want to mark a starting point for the purpose of contributing to the recognition of these victims and proposing real measures that can help to recover this forgotten reality for decades. And I also tell him that I think this is a moral and political obligation for everyone. It's enough to look the other way and deny an existing reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. For the Government's reply, you have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. We really regret that the German Government and the party that supports this government does not count on the support of the opposition, because I am convinced that it is the majority feeling of the Greek society. The words of the President of the Galician Union were very clear. We have to investigate every case, make justice to all of them and repair the damage on all of them. All cases of sexual abuse must be reported and brought to light. Everybody! All of them, no exception! The pain of the victim is not greater or less according to the degree of his aggressor's profession. That's why all of them deserve the greatest respect, the greatest support, and also justice. [[Murmurs.]] Yesterday the proposal made by this House's majority group on the issue you raised today, and the Government, of course, signed it. The GNP was right. To limit the demands and the repair of only one crime and another doesn't seem to us, really, unappreciated. I'm sorry that the Galician Nationalist Block is in those coordinates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u140	Quiet, Mr. Tabaret. Quiet. Silence! No, shut up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're not in the use of the word. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u141	The Galician Union will continue to work to get to know all the cases and also to give all the support the victims need. We will continue to advance in consciousness, we will continue to advance in early detection, we will continue to advance in therapy and in the accompaniment of the victims and we will move forward so that all the weight of the law falls on those aggressors. The Galician Union is with the victims of child sexual abuse, with all the victims, no matter when, where and in whose hands this abuse was committed, without exception. We have to investigate every case. We must make justice in all of them and also repair the damage in all of them, always, without exception. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u142	Thank you, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the creation of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u143	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u144	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, the question we have raised today from the Socialist Parliamentary Group focuses on the employment situation in our community, which, as you know, is at the queue of job creation in the state and which affects, to a greater extent, young people and young people and long-term unemployed. Unemployment and precarious employment are one of the main problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and we have no doubt, Counsellor, that you are concerned about. But, by observing the reality around us and with the data in hand, we can say that the Government of Greece is not pursuing an appropriate policy in relation to this matter, with employment. Take note, Counselor, of the Central Government. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group doesn't say so, it tells us the data from the latest Survey of Active Population and also publicly manifests trade union organizations. In the January 27 news, the unions regret the outcome and the worrying situation of the Greek labour market after the Active Population Survey published by INE. UGT-Galicia, for example, alerts the little dynamism of the German labour market, with an activity rate of six points below the state average. In the same sense, the Labour Commissions were talking about the collapse of the German labour market, and the IGC, of an unsustainable situation. The fourth quarter of the year 2021 EPA points out that, the content of the data, Galicia, is glued to job creation in relation to the rest of the state. The community closes by creating only 10,400 jobs more than in 2020, a percentage of 0.96%, four times less than the state data, which is more than 4.35, being placed, as a percentage of creation, specifically, in place seventeen of the total 19 autonomous communities. Unemployment rises by 20% on Thursdays and over 55 years and, of the 135,000 unemployed, nearly 60,000 have been unemployed for over a year. That's why I ask you what valuation makes the Government of Greece that Galicia is standing in line for job creation, specifically, in place seventeen of the total 19 autonomous communities. Thank you for my first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u146	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mrs. Rodríguez, you're doing an analysis of the Inquisition of the active population absolutely interested and isolated. In other words, it seems — it seems — that all the developments in the German labour market throughout the pandemic have no value and only considers data isolated from a quarter of the year 2021. If we take into account the behaviour of the German labour market throughout the pandemic, you will see — and figures also come out of the Active Population Survey — that we have been able to keep employment twice as much as in Spain. That is, while in Spain the occupation fell by 5.5 %, in Galicia it fell by only 3% in the second quarter of 2020; that is, at the worst moment of the pandemic. Galicia took only one quarter of the time to recover all jobs, less than four hundred, from the time of the pandemic. Spain took up until the year 2021; that is, five quarters. You, as I say, do an absolutely isolated analysis of that third quarter. If you compare the EPAs continuously, you can see that the last quarter of the year is the quarter where the peak in Galicia is worse for occupation and unemployment while the first quarter is worse in Spain than in Galicia, with which, if you take the data set, you can see the evolution that I'm telling you. Still, the rate of unemployment in the fourth quarter of 2021 is the lowest of the last thirteen years in Galicia. We continue with a unemployment rate of two points below the state: eight years of unemployment in this quarter, falling more than five percent over the same period in 2020. In the occupation, we've reached the second highest figure of busy in a fourth quarter since the year 2019. In undefined workers, the biggest bunch of undefined workers in the entire historical series in this fourth quarter. Why does all this happen — because I think this is the relevant one — and why did the Greek market behave better than the national market in recovery? Of course, by all the agents, both the workers, the self-employed, and the companies, but I think that also by the public authorities and how things were done in the Autonomous Community. From the very first moment, we had made it clear that we had to maintain our business fabric. A total of EUR 600 million in the autonomous Community budget has been allocated to the sectors to ensure that employment has been maintained. And you say we have to copy the state. The state did not inject a single euro into the Autonomous Community at the worst of the crisis. He didn't speak a single moment to the self-employed. Ask the autonomous people who think about all this. You say we have to copy the state, when Mr. Scribá is unable even to consolidate a new contribution regime, and when Mrs. Díaz is able to raise the minimum interprofessional wage in a dialogue where businessmen are not. We're not going to copy the state here. Here we're going to continue dialogue with the self-employed and companies, and support the business fabric to support jobs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u147	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u148	Counsellor, if you want wider data — other than the fourth quarter — we can give them at the same time, because this job problem is not new. This comes for all the policies used by President Feijóo. If we look at the hours worked, we see that between the last year of the Bipartite — the year 2008 — and the last year of what we have data — this 2021 — Galicia has lost 9.9 of its workload, of the hours actually worked, and this percentage is equal to 118,000 full-time jobs. If they acted as the state did, we would now have 45,000 more jobs. [[Applause]] We celebrate the rise of the minimum wage. Just like people who earn more than 1,000 euros, 2,000 euros and 3,000 euros don't celebrate so much, but the Galician Socialist Party is with the workers who are having a hard time with that pay less than 1,000 euros. [[Applause]] You also have to fight the gender gap, a gap with a rate where men have 9.9 points, but women have 12.2. Today you were amazed that women had received less than 5,000 euros than men in Galicia, but that you have to take steps to avoid this situation is the Autonomous Community of Galicia, it is Mr Feijóo and you are, Counsellor. We also urge them to run the employment funds, because what they do not receive is that in 2020 they left 135,000 million euros out of execution, the previous year another 135,000 million euros, and now they complain that the state has to redeploy 70 million. The first thing you have to do is run the funds you've assigned, of course. And yes, yes, I copy the model of the State to resume social dialogue with the trade unions, to draw up agreements so that the Greek labour market can improve, because in this way the unemployed Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u149	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u150	...that's 60,000 long-term stopped Greeks, I'd like to thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u151	For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u152	Thank you, President. Regarding unemployment recorded in January -- and so bad that we're doing things -- in annual terms, we've dropped by 17.23%, i.e. the biggest drop in unemployment in the whole series recorded in January -- the lowest figure of unemployed since 1996 in January. With regard to the beginning of the pandemic, compared to the current date of February 2020, unemployment has been reduced by 7.40 %, while the state has fallen by 3.79 %. There is unemployment in the four provinces, in the seven cities, in all economic sectors, in all priority groups, and you tell me that I have to copy the state and the dialogue that the state is making. You're talking about a wage gap between men and women. It is that the wage gap is lower in Galicia than on the national average. Yes, it is lower in Galicia than on the national average: 0.5 points. So, I don't know why the wage gap goes out here, because it's precisely a given where Galicia is better. And he says we have to keep copying the state into social dialogue. What social dialogue? Social dialogue is made up of all the agents involved in the socio-laborative market, also the business part, which, by the way, is the one who generates employment and which, by the way, are also the autonomous ones, which are 97% of the productive tissue in Galicia. So, in order to raise the minimum inter-professional wage — which I am not against — you will also have to take account of the employers and the moment that this rise is carried out, especially when a job reform has just been carried out, whose costs we still don't know why we don't know how the development of that new fixture of workers and of the discontinuous fixtures and the redundancies that may occur. That's right. It's producing at a certain point, just talking to the union. Anyway, you're talking to me about all the money we have, at the Employment Council, transferred by the Ministry of Labour. For that money has to be used exclusively with the requirements, it's for some recipients and they have targets and regulatory bases that the State sets up. This is the dialogue that the State has with the autonomous communities, so that I, in the plans that we are setting for the most sensitive groups — which are women, which are the Thursdays, which are the people with disabilities — cannot establish a single program where I can adapt that program or those aids to the territory of the autonomous community. For example, I have to devote myself to subsidising Thursday contracts in public administrations. That's the long term with which the Ministry of Labour aims: to hire Thursdays in public administrations so that their first professional experience, instead of being in business, in productive tissue, to continue to evolve in their career, i.e. in public administration, to stop at a given time and without thinking in the medium term, because that's not what the Government of Sánchez thinks. As I tell you, we're going to keep working, and we're going to continue working on the commitment to create quality jobs. And, of course, I think EPA's data has to be analyzed with perspective and not how you're doing it and twisting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u153	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the new programs that launched the Galician Union in 2021 in developing the Galician Mental Health Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u154	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u155	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, on 25 July 2020, the Board of Trustees approved the Galician Mental Health Plan, which establishes, by the period 2020-2024, 98 projects aimed at preventing mental health problems in the population of Galicia, and at improving social health care for people suffering from mental disorder. This plan has been explained in the 5th Commission of this Parliament for more than a year by the Director General for Sergas Health Care, in particular on December 17, 2020. Through this information we know that the implementation of this strategy implies that the Government of Greece will allocate in the period 2020-2024 an budget of EUR 83 million. This budget is going to increase the number of professionals and healthcare devices of the Galego Health Service for health care; mental disorders, with particular emphasis on child care and our seniors; to develop programmes for the recovery of people with severe mental disorders; to encourage research into these pathologies; and it also foresees the recruitment of 240 new professionals throughout the whole vigency, more specifically, by 2020-2021, the recruitment of 120 new professionals. We know that the process slowed down in 2020 due to the pandemic, but the Union committed itself to recovering this level. Counsellor, following his commitment to this Parliament at the plenary session of 23 March 2021, a motion was unanimously adopted calling on the Board to develop a plan for recruiting health personnel in mental health professionals in Psychiatry, clinical psychology, social workers, nurses, mental health specialists, assistant technicians and occupational therapists to equate Sergas's mental health professionals with the state average in all categories effectively at the beginning of 2024. The general budget project presented to the Board in this budget continues with the planned programming, incorporating 43 new mental health squares for the 2022 exercise. Yesterday, Counsellor, the Socialist Group called for this plenary report on compliance with the Mental Health Plan. We prefer to go directly to the clean source. We've heard the president of the board in Ourense explain that 100 new professionals were hired, and today we want you to tell us about the programs that were developed during the year 2021. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u157	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Friend, indeed, this government has no problem, of course, in informing this Parliament of the fulfilment of the mandates approved here, especially when these mandates did not do but reflect what was a commitment expressed by the Government itself in the House and collected in the plan adopted by mid-2020, as you well said. But if someone in this Parliament has any doubts about the follow-up to this plan, I would like to tell you that in the management agreements that Sergas has signed on this March with the seven health areas, specific indicators and objectives of compliance with the Mental Health Plan will be collected. Therefore, this plan will be in the most important document on the management of the public health system in Galicia. This is the best example of priority this plan has for the German Government. [[Applause]] As already mentioned, there are 100 professionals. And as for the programs that started, I believe that many of them have already been announced, as they were going into operation, as was the case, for example, of the 3 infant-day hospitals in Vigo, Santiago and Ourense; or the creation of 5 new outpatient units, 3 in adults, in Orders, Oleiros and Tui, and 2 infant-juvenins in Coruña and Vigo, or the new psychogeria unit that was installed in Ourense. I want to highlight something else, which may be less visible but which I also want to value. On the one hand, we expand the hospital staff to domicile in mental health in three areas: Santiago, Pontevedra and Ourense. This involves greater territorial and time-consuming coverage. There are reinforcements in all areas in socio-sanitary programs, in this case of mental health, which provide a service to senior homes. This same Friday we'll visit one of these teams together with the Social Policy Council. We have link clinical psychologists in primary care, a new program that aims to improve coordination between primary and mental health, allowing an early approach to mental disorders prevalent in this area of primary care. And we also have in all health-care psychologists hospital-related areas, which last year did an exceptional job, with the development of the Psychosocial Support Plan for Professionals, with a program called Care to Care, which gave psychological support to dozens of professionals from the Galician Health Service. And finally, we're paying special attention to the prevention of suicide. In 2021 we moved from one unit -- in this case, Ourense's one, who was a pioneer -- to six. In 2022 we will culminate in the extension of this model to seven areas with multidisciplinary attention and rapid pathways. And in addition, next week we will also update the Protocol for the Prevention of Suicide in Education. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u158	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Encarna Amigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u159	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, thank you very much for your clear and accurate response to the evolution of the plan and to these new projects, which come to put on the table which the Board works, which deals with and cares about the problem of all the Greeks. It is clear that there is an explicit willingness of the Council to follow up on the evolution of this plan, as demonstrated by this initiative to introduce specific targets on it in management agreements with the areas. Another usual criticism of the opposition is that these 83 million budget don't appear with which the plan was announced. The opposition always points out that only sections in chapter IV, chapter VI, with the designation of Mental Health Plan, but, of course, these 100 new professionals earn their salary each month and, therefore, it is clear that there must also be budgets in the staff chapter, and that, in addition, this staff chapter will grow year by year. Counsellor, on this second remaining time, I wanted to know if I could give us any more details on the budgetary impact that this ambitious plan of the implementation of the Galician Mental Health Plan is being assumed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, García Comesaña, utters words that are not perceived.]] Wait a second, because the system is being restarted and time is still counting on Mrs. Friend. They'd be glad he answered in 20 seconds, but we'll give him the three. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see if it's... it's done. Whenever you want, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u161	Thank you, President. I was saying, Mrs Amigo, that there is indeed a budgetary increase in the staff situation which is obviously not specified in a section, but rather in the provision of squares in those staff attachments - which, of course, the opposition assumes so much that it has been studied -. The 163 squares created in 2020, 2021 and 2022 account for an investment of 7.7 million euros more in mental health personnel than we had in 2019; an investment that will not only be considered, but that we will increase year by year until we reach the final amount by 2024 of 11 million euros. But the increase in the budget is not only in the staff itself, it is also in the collaboration of entities in the socio-health associative tissue, both with the bidding of new markets contracts and with the calls for aid to these entities. Each year we are gradually increasing the squares in rehabilitation centers, protected floors or residential centers. In 2022, we spent EUR 8.1 million, more than 30% more than the count we had in 2020, and our goal is to reach a budget in 2024 in this year by 55% more than that in 2020, exceeding EUR 9.5 million annually. This means we'll reach 320 more squares, reaching more than 1,500. With regard to aid for the financing of social welfare programmes related to patients with mental disorders, this plan suggested that the first order of specific aid was convened in 2020, which was EUR 420,000 starting and then extended to EUR 500,000. In 2021 this call exceeded €800,000 and first incorporated a differentiated line for suicide prevention programs. We are already in a position to say that the 2022 call will come out this month of March — moving forward with respect to last year — and that it will once again exceed the EUR 800,000, with which we hope to be able, as last year, to overcome the 40 programmes subsidized with these aids. And finally, I also want to highlight the infrastructure budget. As you know, in these budgets for the year 2022, we included 500,000 euros to be able to start the remodeling actions of the Psychiatric Conxo Hospital on the line that we were defining with the People's Defender. But I would also like to point out that within the performances at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital there is a very important part that is intended to enable the new infant-juvenil psychiatric hospitalization unit, which will be the second reference Galician hospital for the entire southern area. We have just received the basic project from the adjudicatory architectural study and, once supervised and carried out the execution project, we can bid for a work that will assume an amount of more than one million euros to double Galicia's capacity in this field. Finally, we have a solid plan, which counts on the firm budget support and which supports everyone and each of the steps we are taking to develop it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u162	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece on the measures necessary to improve the care capacity of the Health Centre and the CAP of the municipality of Guarda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u163	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. The Guard Health Centre is a clear example of the problem of primary care in Galicia. Mr Counsellor, we have discussed this subject on several occasions in this Parliament, and today we bring it back because everything is still the same. It's all the same! Because if they're still not covered by casualties, vacations and retirements, and this results in a total saturation of this health center, and their advisors don't solve this situation. The Guard Health Center, as you know, would have to have 8 doctors, and there are 4 doctors, 8 doctors. There are 2 pediatricians, and those 2 pediatricians, besides meeting their schedule, have to take care of the children and the girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u166	...of Oia and Rosal because her pediatrician's been a year off. In addition, the continuing point of attention — the so-called CAP — remains attended by a single team and a backup physician between 6 p.m. on Saturday and 6 p.m. on Sunday. And, as you know, you promised a second team that would support, apart from consultations, the CAP guards, the health centre consultations. But it was an unfulfilled promise because there is nothing about it today. You also know there are days when there is no doctor for this Guard CAP. But the problem, moreover, is that apart from the people of the Guard, the people of Rosal and Oia go. This is assuming that the neighbors and neighbors of all these areas can no longer and do nothing but demand health care as they deserve, quality health care and for everyone, because they don't have it. You don't have it, Counselor. And besides, I mean publicly here that doctors and doctors are exhausted, they can't anymore, but besides, they can't even the rest of the staff of this health center. Because, when patients get angry, they have to attend to them, and, of course, there's a time when they can't anymore, and you know it perfectly. So, I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u168	...I ask you again: what measures will be taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u169	Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Applause]] The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u170	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Gallego, this is not the first time we have talked in this plenary about the health centres of Lower Mine and, in particular, about the Health Center of the Guard. So I'm not going to enter the description of the service, which is known to everyone. The Comarca of Lower Mine is one of the paradigmal spaces of the problem that suffers from primary care, because, for many efforts that have been made since the Administration, in this case, of the Vigo Health Area to cover these squares, the difficulties are enormous. As you know, of these four doctors you're talking about, there's a vacancy, a parking lot, and 2 long-term IT. So from the Health Council we firmly believe in the measures we are addressing to address the staff deficit, which is the basic problem, even if you don't want to recognize it. On the other hand, there is another government which, within its competences, has, on the one hand, given Galicia's demands to be able to incorporate this year more doctors in training, in this case; and on the other hand, it has no intention of addressing immediately the change in the management of health training, which is so essential. That's why we take action. In the field of staff, with the new category of optional primary care specialist we created this year, and for which we will immediately approve the first public job offer. We have already incorporated the first health technicians, who started working on Monday, adding to those we already had in primary care, in this case centralized at 061 headquarters and addressing issues related to cowardice; performing medical tasks, but of a more bureaucratic nature. And in the field of reform, we have just presented the first fourteen local health plans, a model that we want to extend to all of Galicia and which promotes a family and community vision from the care issue, to confirm it as the true backbone of the public health system in Galicia, making primary care more efficient, more proactive, towards present and future health challenges. We also incorporated CRM 100 to pay attention to phone calls and to be able to answer 100% of those calls in the day. We maintain and incorporate 139 people from the general service administrative staff to give precisely coverage to this telephone demand. And yesterday he was visiting one of the centers where the integrated team demand management system, known as XIDE, was piloted, which produces interesting results on demand reorganization and also on the care most tailored to the needs of patients. Even though we have also taken action in the field of staff since June — by which you have, by the way, opposed — we also want to be able to take the best advantage of the resources we count on. And that's why we bet on these innovative measures, which are being very well received by professionals and patients. The Guard's problems are still known. From the area, as I told you, every effort is made to meet with quality the care of all patients, both in the health center and in the CAP. But as long as no other options are available, for the time being the vacancy and prolonged IT coupons are overdue through extensions and interreplacements. We will continue to work, incorporate new measures and apply those already announced in order to address the needs of this municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u171	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u172	Thank you, President. Counselor, for you all cases are paradigmatic. Just like we're talking about Bass Mine, Navy, Vilagarcia... anyway, they're all paradigmatic. [[Applause]] Look, I think they can make more effort, really. They can make more effort. Fix the health center and CAP problems once and for all! Neighbors and neighbors can't anymore, but professionals can't anymore. We've been calling for more staff since 2020 for the Health Centre and the Guard's CAP since 2020! [[Applause]] It's 2022. Can't you really do anything? Well, you can't do anything because, of course, I don't know what happened there to the 151 MIR squares for family doctors you gave up training. Where are they? Where are those 151 MIR? Where are they? And then also, among all the doctors who go to Portugal, because the working conditions are much better, because, of course, we have no doctors. Of course, of course...! I know a few, eh!, who are in Portugal, I don't know why. Well, it'll be because of the working conditions. Look, I think the Galician Union has a policy of dismantling public health, that's right! And so we're seeing it one day after another. They don't care absolutely nothing about public health for Galicia, they don't bet on it. And Galicia needs powerful, quality and universal public health for everyone, for all its neighbours and for all its neighbours; for the Guard, too. The Guards also need health care. And by the way, a claim that will already be a classic: medicalized ambulance for The Guard... well, for the Lower Mine. I'll repeat it over and over again, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. García Comesaña has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u174	Look, as we said, at the guard, there are 8 doctor's squares equipped. None of the squares have been removed. It's still the 8 squares that are equipped, and there's them right now... No, no; they're not suppressed, the squares are... Do you know what a square is? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand you do. The squares are kept at 8, there is no suspension... no square is suspended. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I say that the eight squares are kept, that there's no amortized, it's eight o'clock. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u175	Mr. Torado, be quiet. Silence, Mr. Torrado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u176	President, please, if I may continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u177	Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u178	I insist, the 8 doctor squares of the Guard Health Center are maintained, they're all equipped. There's no square cut, understanding what a square is. As I say, we only have four covers, because, as I said a moment ago, we have four squares that we can't cover. We have to thank these professionals mostly for their efforts, for these 4 they are working, because they also serve their coupons with a delay of less than four days, and 2 of them even with a delay of less than two days. The problem is we have it with the other 4 squares that are still there and, as I told you, the area is making every effort to cover it. In this case, this work materializes, this effort will materialize from the next month, in which a new professional is expected to be incorporated, thus achieving a 63% coverage. I repeat, it's very difficult to get people to work in the Guard, and the effort the area makes, in this case, is bearing fruit, and there's one more doctor. I would also like to see that, thanks to the creation of the new specialty, The Guard will be included in that call for squares to address urgently the shortage of professionals. As you know, it's a summons that focuses on the difficult-to-recovery squares, offering a contract, a plaza owned by the merit contest and forcing him to be there two years in that square. In relation to the CAP, there is a reinforcement at the weekend since the year 2018 that allows you to normally meet the generated demand and according to the standards used to measure the activity of these centers. Workers at the Health Centre and the CAP of the Guard know perfectly what priority is number one coverage of the medical side, above all, and who with this reinforcement of the weekend - that, I repeat, if put in 2018 - are in a classic standard of any CAP service. I insist that the first one is always covered, that I think it's not the normal nor exceptional thing the CAP is not covered. So within a month, as I said, with much effort, this professional will be hired more and, in addition, this council will be one of the objectives of the new convening of these squares. But besides, from the Council, in addition to addressing the attention of the neighbours, we also want them to have the necessary infrastructure. That's why The Guard has been included in the Primary Care Infrastructure Plan to address the integration of the health centre and the House of the Sea; action that is expected to double the current areas, providing the municipality with more and better services and also incorporating the CAP. However, we're still waiting for the mayor's answer. So if you want to collaborate to advance in primary care measures, the mayor is urged to respond to the demand made by the Council in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u179	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other MPs from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, about the complaints filed by several women for sexual abuse by a doctor when they went to their consultation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u180	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u181	Good morning, Counselor. Today we have to ask you about a question that we really consider serious at BNG, and it's the complaint of several women from the Standard Health Center to a doctor for sexual abuse and outrage. His witnesses put their hair on the head, cause chills. They're very similar stories, without any of these women knowing or having it in common. I'm going to give you the story of some of them. One, the first, says he went to the consultation for diarrhea. The doctor tells him to fall on his shirt and lower his underwear. Without warning, he slaps his pube, slaps his chest and, without giving him time to get up his clothes, tells him to jump through the consultation. He complains at Sergas and, having spent almost a year and a half after declaring twice before the inspection, he knows nothing of what the Counsellor had done, and he had to go to the trial. Another manifests that goes to the consultation for diarrhea and vaginal fungi. He goes on his way and, without warning, the doctor lowers his pants and underwear with his own hands, sends him to bend his knees and touches him first in the genitals, without gloves, and then anal. Another says that after living similar situations, he telephoned the Health Inspectorate and nothing else knew. The situation jumped to public opinion when Ana reported last August, on social networks, that she went to the gastroenteritis consultation and, to examine her belly, the doctor lifted her shirt completely and lowered her underwear. Ana denounces abuse of power, which she felt exposed, uncomfortable, vulnerable... After the situation became public, other women dared to talk about it and make sure they were raped by the same doctor, and many others are not able to make it public because if they feel ashamed, when they are the victims, and do not dare their relatives know what happened. Of course, at the BNG, Counsellor, we consider it very serious that these women transferred the situation to Sergas in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 and that the Council did not act to protect them; women who had to run between themselves in the face of Sergas' misfortune and inaction and who had to go to the trial seeking the protection that the Board did not lend them. We consider it unacceptable to passivity, cover and hide by the Council, because we are talking about abuse of power, of gender violence, in a situation of such vulnerability as when a person, a woman, needs health care. There are many explanations, of course, counsellor, which we believe should be given by the counsellor that you run: why didn't you act? why did you leave these women unprotected?, did you open any files?, when you opened?, what is the situation of this professional?, and why didn't you inform the staff meeting of this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u184	Thank you. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u185	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, be assured that the whole of the German Government will do nothing but condemn any form of sexual abuse, in this case against women, but also against anyone else who suffers from it in any way. We can't agree with some of your claims. You speak of the lack of cover by Sergas and of delays, passivity or concealment. In this answer, I will try to transfer to you the work done by the Inspectorate of the General Secretariat of the Council and which is recently being the protagonist of the parliamentary debate. Just like today we could recover some case that they've named in the past, although now it's no longer up to them, because they have selective memory and criticism. They do not agree with a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in favour, in this case, of an action by Sergas. Unlike you, I'm not going to make partisan use of these kind of questions. [[Applause]] We must focus on the facts that gave rise to this question and, in this case, I would like to point out that, since the first patient introduced knowledge of this would advise the facts, at no time has stopped working. In September 2020, the complaint was reported and, in that same month — September 2020 — the first interview was held with the patient from the health area. At the beginning of October 2020, action to collect information was initiated and prior reserved information started in November 2020. At the same time, in December 2020, this process began, a patient's communication of events that took place in 2018 – I repeat, in December 2020 – is summarized. All necessary information is requested and the instruction phase of the disciplinary record is started. Again, we need to ask for more information, such as the list of patients, the covered protocols or the list of presence appointments, and it also re-examines itself already, as previously done, if in previous years there was a claim for the action of the doctor by another patient, a matter resolved when no previous record related to this option was found. In this case, the reported professional also appeared, and again the patient who initially made the facts known. A new claim was submitted in August 2021 and documentation was received in August on another claim made by events that took place in 2019. A new incident was incorporated with another patient for the year 2020, which moved him in August 2021. It is important to note that, whenever a complaint is incorporated into the file, it is necessary to have the necessary information to proceed with the file. In November 2021, and after the addition of new complaints, the instructor makes the corresponding charge and makes claims to the file. As you see, Mrs. Prado, there was no lack of support at any time, but the processes, in order to be guaranteed everywhere, require a few moments of performances, and so it was done by the inspectors, to whom I reiterate my thanks in this plenary for their work. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u186	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u187	Counselor, I have to admit that I didn't expect this answer from you. Really, having knowledge of the facts in 2020, do you think you can let for more than a year continue to act this way with other women? Do you think that's not a lack of support? [[Applause]] I didn't expect such an answer. Because the victims show that they felt abandoned by the Council, that they had to go to trial for you to act and that one had to put on the nets what was happening to skip the subject. And you say there's no need for protection! [[Applause]] Counsellor, there is absolutely no justification that they did not act, that they did not act immediately, that they did not put the facts in the knowledge of the Prosecutor's Office and that they did not immediately remove this professional from the performance so that he could not continue doing this to any other woman. And a year and a minute later, you allowed him to continue in your consultation. The Greek women, Counsellor, are waiting here today for you - particularly those of Padrón - to say that you will act, so that something as contemptible as this will not be imposed, that you will demand responsibilities, that you will take measures so that it will not happen again and that the Council will stand by the women's side and go with them to the trial by supporting them, because they are the victims. [[Applause]] I ask you, Counselor, is that for once you are able to recognize that you have not acted well and that the Council has left these women abandoned. They take action, act with transparency and really explain what happened. Put in place and approve a protocol that allows immediate action in front of facts like this at the first moment that a woman denounces situations like this in order not to have to wait for a disciplinary record that we do not know if it happened or at what stage it is because they didn't even communicate it to the Personnel Board, and so that these women don't have to be staying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u189	...by Sergas and by the judge for someone to pay attention to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. Thank you very much. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u191	Mr. Prado, I repeat to you once again: there is no delay, as there is no delay, as in these cases, always, when a file is required by the judge, as in this case, in which two complainants went to the criminal proceedings, they automatically suspend their proceedings, since the existence of a criminal proceeding may have an influence on the resolution of the file. Therefore, it is suspended, as I said, until the pronouncement in the criminal proceedings. I insist on the work done at all times because the claims were met in time, all of them, also those that referred to events that happened years ago, as could not be otherwise. In this case, of course, attention was given to users. I always transfer to them that all inspection files require a procedure that allows us to estimate the facts, proven, in this case, being fruit, in addition to a rigorous analysis. Once again, I defend independence, objectivity and impartiality with those who work in the inspection service professionals, to whom you continue to question permanently. [[Protests.]] I would like to acknowledge all the efforts they make, because they not only attend disciplinary records --34 last year, which happens that the other 33 should not be too interested in -- but they also deal with heritage responsibilities, authorizations of centres and control of work casualties, among other issues. There's no delay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u192	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u193	...no paralysis, no archive; in any case, there is an analysis and a pending work now of judicial resolution. Once the judicial resolution has been reached, the suspension will be lifted and the corresponding administrative resolution will be adopted, with the result of the charges already issued at the end of the year 2021. I want to end, therefore, by again condemning all the abuses committed against women and saying that this government will always denounce them by making all the means available to the victims. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u194	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions planned by the Greek Government to prevent the saturation of Ourense's hospital emergencies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u195	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. How comfortable it is to blame victims subliminally for not reporting before! I thought the People's Party had already surpassed that comfortable position, but I don't see it. [[Murmurs.]] Going to another question, which is also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u197	Silence! Silence, Mrs. Prado and Mr. Pazos! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u198	It doesn't make them so angry that the Galician Union took a year to act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u199	Mr. Peace, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u200	That doesn't make them so angry. Of course! Friend!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u201	Silence! Mrs. Prado, be quiet! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u202	Not to be ashamed do they know a lot about the People's Party, too. We've seen him this week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u203	Silence! Mr. Paz, too... Mrs. Prado, I've already called you in order. Silence! Silence! Quiet, Mrs. Prado! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, call her in order for a second time. We're on the last question, last question, I don't know if they've noticed. Mrs. Presas, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u204	Well, for political unanimity and for the fight against macho violence, we must also take the mistakes, and for the struggle for public health, we must also take the mistakes, and that is our question today, Mr. Comesaña. You know we're asking for the recurring saturation of the Emergency Service of the Ourense Hospital Complex, and today we're bringing this question to ask for two things of you: firstly, the active listening of the professionals; and, secondly, clear commitments, with deadlines and numbers, because, as you know, since mid-January, they've been concentrating on emergency doors every week, demanding a correction of the situation. A situation that was also limited in September and which recently, starting in December, with the sixth wave of the vault-19, if it intensified again. The truth is, fortunately, the pandemic has been improving, but they report that it does not improve emergency saturation because it responds to different reasons: firstly, the lack of staff. The reinforcement is not enough to handle the overload. The delay in specialized care appointments does not help, the saturation of primary care does not help either, and the characteristics of the older population cause the recurrence of emergencies to increase. Secondly, we can talk about the bad organization of a space that, once reformed, was born small. The reform on his day was already small and with the demands of the vault, because of course, space is more limited. The dispersion of patients, for example, makes the displacement times greater. And all of this causes professionals to report saturation, report the lack of reinforcements, high expectations for people, and that frequently, day after day, there are dozens of patients in the corridors. I talked to a number of workers and workers yesterday, and they told me that on Monday night -- but they told me, you can tell them that this happens every day, that they can come any day of the week -- at 12 at night there were 13 patients in corridors, in padiolas, waiting for a place. We understand that this is unacceptable. We know there's been a meeting last week, a meeting that's getting late. In any case, we urge him to rush the time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u206	...noting that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u207	Thank you very much. Your time is up. (Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived Madam Presas, look here, because you don't see it. [[Mr. President, Calvo Pouso, turns the screen at which time the time is counted for Mrs. Presas Berganginos to see her.]] Look here because he doesn't see it. I've already given him 40 more seconds. So thank you, your time is up. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up. [[Applause]] The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u208	Thank you very much, President. Madam Presas, last week you were bringing up the debate about the alleged collapse of the CHUS emergencies, which, with data, we found that it was only the so-called "continue alarm" that since the Galician Nationalist Block they carry out on Greek health. Look, I defend the work that is done in all health areas, and just as in Santiago the data reflect a very different reality than you describe, and so, in addition, it was transferred to the Central Commission at meetings that are regularly held with the Orenses Power. We don't seem to meet the professionals, who only meet you. First of all, on the demands made by the Central Commission, concerning staff, since the beginning of the pandemic, there has been a full reinforcement of nurses and assistants in all shifts, on the three daily shifts. There is also a nursing reinforcement morning and afternoon at weekend and another reinforcement of nursing equipment and assist every afternoon from Monday to Friday. This last support has been made since the end of 2019, when an increase in a medical force was launched in the afternoons. However, this reinforcement, eight nurses and eight assistants, represents a 19% increase in the nursing staff and 17% increase in the assistants, maintained from the beginning of the pandemic. In addition, this staff increases when they open rooms to wait for patients -- look, Mrs. Presas, I know very well about Ourense's emergencies and there are no corridors, what there are rooms that are open to demand; that they explain it well -- and, as I said, these additional rooms that open themselves with a backup in each of them, and, if necessary, another nursing and auxiliary team is put in place. This is another very important percentage on the staff board: an average of four auxiliaries and one or two more nurses a day, whenever needed. Over the past few months, he was told at some point with up to 13 more emergency assistants and up to 10 more nurses. If this doesn't look strengthening to you, I don't know what it does to you. As for the janitors, the service was strengthened with a janitors in the evening and with another in the evening, as well as in the morning, and in the punctual moments in the evening and evening shifts strengthened with one or two more capillaries, according to the punctual need at every moment. So, as you see, there are continuous and timely reinforcements that allow you to address all the demand. In fact, I would like to highlight the capacity that the center has to absorb and address revenue, with the possibility of increasing to 15% its basal capacity only with the delay that prediagnosed. Although the truth is that overdemand can be produced, it can be solved with the allocation of more resources, as I have just moved it. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, the demand is ended conveniently, and also the demands of the professionals, with whom the meetings will continue, as it cannot be otherwise, to continue to address their requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u209	Thank you very much, Counselor. Wait a second because the clock doesn't work. He'll get laid now. If he is, let's give Mrs. Presas the floor. For the reply, you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u210	Well, see if this time you let me speak to the People's Parliamentary Group and I can spend my time. Look, Counselor, basically of his answer we infer that everything is absolutely great and let's say that the professionals are concentrating every Tuesday on the emergency door because it's all great and because they have nothing else to put in the hospital door. I also suppose the cleaning workers, who announced - at the expense of what happens today at the meeting they have for the convention - who will go to strike because they are failing the agreements, is vice too; I suppose that the society of Valdeorras yesterday, remobilising by the health situation, is vice; and that the workers of the private security of the hospitals of Verín and Valdeorras, who ask them to pay for their work because companies do not meet the deadlines, is also vice. I suppose that's basically also the People's Party model. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Comesaña, you know as I do that the reinforcement is being insufficient, that the staff is exhausted and that that's why what they ask is to sit down and work at the necessary improvements. We know there are issues like space, which is limited, that are not easy to solve, but of course, if there are patients in corridors and if they enable rooms, that requires more personal. If displacements that used to be done by ambulance personnel or displacements that were previously done to other parts of a hospital that are being repaired take longer, because that requires more staff to make those displacements. That's what the workers and workers are saying, to whom you don't seem to want to listen. And, look, I already know that the People's Party only likes the banners they pull out, but they sort of sum up the situation pretty well. And what professionals say -- and they don't want to see for more than three weeks -- this is, "Our vocation doesn't mean exploitation," "The solution, recruitment," "For the dignity and integrity of patients in emergency." [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos shows photographs.]] Ourense doesn't deserve a campaign hospital emergency. Everybody...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u212	...you can understand that sometimes there are exceptions, but that can't be the norm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u213	Thank you very much. Wait, Counselor, let them set the time. The counselor has the word, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u214	Look, what's clear is that you twist reality in such a way that they end up lying or getting the security company, the cleaning company, everything's all right, everything's all right. Well, this data shows that the situation is quite different. You see, the emergency care charge dropped considerably in 2021. The number of emergency care dropped by 20,457 compared to the year 2019; that is, 47 daily performances minus 30%. Therefore, the average daily care rate is 185 patients per day in 2021 and 240 patients per day in 2019 - let's talk about the care provided by Ourense's emergencies. And it also rose the number of attentions that went through triage in the classification of green color. As you may know, or should you know, it means that there is a lighter pathology and that therefore does not require entry or occupation of additional rooms. And finally, the frequency of emergencies in the hospital went from 437 to 358. And you certainly lie when you blame, besides, the collapse of emergencies -- that there is no -- primary care. They use this argument without any interest whatsoever about the reality, in particular, of this health area. You use primary care as a global weapon and argument. They don't care if we talk about the Guard, the Marines or the Court. So look, no, in Ourense, there's no problem generally with primary care, and in fact, with last week's data, we see that 99% of the provincial coupons had a delay of less than four days -- 99% less than four days, and, if we talk less than two days, 86% of Ourense's primary care coupons have a delay of less than two days. Where is the collapse, Mrs. Presas, of primary care in Ourense? Do you believe... in the Inclan Valley? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u215	Mr. Tabaret! Mr. Tabares, be quiet! Silence! It's not for you to answer. Don't be funny to me. Don't make me funny! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u216	Do you think you can take responsibility for ourense's primary care situation in the alleged collapse of CHUO's emergencies? Is everything all right, Mrs. Presas? Of course not. It is enough to always use the same arguments. We will continue to meet the demands of the professionals, of course, at the meetings of the Central Commission at any time I need to speak, in this case, with the Ourense Administration, working to ensure the best care for patients, both in primary and hospital. In Ourense we have a commitment to the future of health care in this province, so we will invest 110 million euros to expand the hospital, equip it with more and better spaces and also increase its surface by 47%. I wanted to give the data on the number of people who work in Ourense's emergencies. In Ourense, 105 professionals work daily: 19 doctors, 34 nurses, 30 ACEAs and 22 janitors; one staff to which 44 physical or localized doctors and 24 residents must be added. In total, 173 people work in Ourense Emergency Service every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u217	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-02-23-DSPG071.u219	Thank you very much. With no more points on the agenda, we're done with the session.
