ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u1	Good afternoon. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. There's no justification for non-attendance, and we're on the agenda. Point one. Election of the First Vice-President of the Bureau of the Chamber The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 18 May 2022, took note of the resignation of Mr. Diego Calvo Pousso as the first Vice-President of the Bureau of the House, which was published in the Parliament Bulletin on 19 May. The election of the First Vice-President shall then proceed. The election shall be made in accordance with Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. by means of ballots, after the nomination of the Members and Members by the Secretary of the Bureau. The House's services are being distributed. The expression of the vote will be done by assigning a single name to the ballot box. A blank vote is considered to be that paper that doesn't have any names. Any paper containing more than one name, some scrap or patch or sign is considered to be null vote. After the vote has been taken and the ballot has been held, the honourable Member will be elected or elected who receives the highest number of votes. The papers are already being distributed, and the Bureau's secretary, Mrs Porro, will therefore call Members and Members. I pray again to the second vice president and the vice secretary if they can be placed next to the ballot box. And, Madam Secretary, whenever you wish, call Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u2	All Members and Members have exercised their right to vote. Well, let's go to the polling station. [[Pause.]] We're left with a deputy, Bará didn't vote. Oh, sorry! [[Murmurs.]] You didn't vote? Okay, sorry. We had a problem here, then. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So the result is: Votes issued 72, votes in favour of Mrs. María Elena Candia López, 40; blank votes, 32. It is therefore elected and therefore the first Vice-President of the Bureau of Parliament is named María Elena Candia López, to whom I pray you to take possession of his office. [[Applause]] We continue, after these election processes, with the second point of the agenda, which is appearance. The opinion of Mrs. Councilor of the Sea, on his own request, to take account of the European Fisheries Council's Ditame on the review of the common fisheries policy (CFP) To make this appearance, you have the word of the Sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. I compare today in this House my own request to realize a proposal that, under a Welsh perspective and with the strength of unity, should lead us to mark an alternative for the future for the common fisheries policy. This proposal is, as formulated in 2012, a bet on maritime-fishing interests and the Welsh sea-industry chain and makes its defense the main fact of its meaning. That fact that I quote must be, in our understanding, also the basis of a common work and must serve to get fisheries policy to push on any other factor or claim, though I know we'll all be on that line. I say this because I know, ladies and gentlemen, that the referendum in this House will be the best element of propulsion for a job in which the maritime-fishing sector itself and the sea-industry chain has placed its consensus in the search for a future. That consensus is black on white in an approved dictatorship without opposition and in which even the text has enriched itself with its approach, a question which I thank in your name and myself. That saying, prepared by the Galician Fisheries Council through a working group defined by its own members, composed of seven persons and assisted by three others, was based on a technical approach drawn up by the Sea Council and on which it has been working since December 2021. This statement is born as far as we believe this is the right time for European fisheries regions to take the lead in defining the changes that will allow the dictates of the common fisheries policy to be repeated to the needs of European coastal communities and to the new challenges at European and global level. We understand that this is how far there is an opportunity to review the common fisheries policy, which is born in the framework of Article 49 of Regulation 1003/80 of the year 2013, and which envisages this review expressly indicating that the committee will inform the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the common fisheries policy, as it was very late on 31 December 2022. Consultations have already begun in order to see what the right path is and what changes are needed in such areas as the necessary strengthening of the social dimension of activity, the empowerment and recognition of artisanal coastal fishing and seafood, and the international dimension of fishing. But we understand that the analysis has to be much broader and more ambitious. Since then, the object of the document drawn up by Galicia is to bring about reforms which appear to be advisable from the point of view of Galicia, the main fisheries region of the European Union, and taking into account the balance sheet of the current common fisheries policy and the previous ones. These reforms have had an important impact on Welsh fishing, so it seems necessary to open the lines of this review before the European decision-making framework, a broad debate to reform the common fisheries policy with the aim of ensuring that our views are heard and met. And these opinions have the pillars over several fundamental positions. From Galicia we understand that an appropriate design of the new common fisheries policy must be a European and European solution, which reinforces social and economic cohesion, technological innovation, improved working conditions in fishing vessels, but it must also be a fisheries policy that strengthens the union both internally and externally, with the objective of food sovereignty and therefore supply the population of healthy and low-impact animal protein. It is important to highlight, as the approach made by the Galego Nationalist Block and endorsed by the whole group, that the approach that Galicia proposes for the common fisheries policy aims to be realistic and based on the current situation, seeking common elements and at the same time taking into account the uniqueness of the different fishing communities in drawing up the future. Among the integral elements that we want to address in this proposal would be five fundamental issues for our sector. Therefore, just as the 2013 reform of fisheries policy focused on the objectives known as the three great ones (i.e. regionalization, discards and the maximum sustainable yield), Galicia now proposes the discussion around the five great ones, that is, five fundamental aspects for achieving the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2023. The first of them lies in the need to analyse and generate a general framework that strengthens the European Union in fisheries, in aquatic terms and also in the transformation and marketing of marine products; and that, since the provision of common and equal regulatory and operational coverage, it can respect and maintain the uniqueness of each Member State in terms of management, management and organization, so that it can preserve its traditional structures and activities without compromising its respect for and compliance with the general lines marked. The second would be focused on understanding and developing a field of equal conditions outside the European Union and towards the interior, seeking balance of standards, especially in the field of control and traceability, and generating a legal security framework that enables different actors to develop their activities with maximum guarantees of balance and with respect to the singularities and specificities of each area. The third would be based on the demand for the revision and updating of the concept of a highly fisheries-dependent zone, guiding its defining elements towards key aspects in today's society, such as the production of quality foods ensuring food sovereignty or obtaining high added value on catches or production of seafood, without forgetting the important social weight of the fisheries sector in Galicia and taking measures of preference and positive discrimination as a result of these criteria. The fourth would be formulated under the proposal to rigorously analyse the application of the landing obligation of all catches and evaluate the improvement of their continuity through the adoption of management measures that can suit this objective without prejudging or undermining the activity of the European fishing fleet. The fifth one, which advocates and estimates that special attention should be given to reviewing the quota allocation criterion in favor of greater alignment with the catch pattern of each fishery, in addition to analysing the relevance of a management system based on other models as a formula of possible solution for several of the inconsistencies and imbalances produced in relation to this measure by the current tax and quota system. I want to point out here also the approach of the Galego Nationalist Block so that, in the case of the craft fleet, if we consider the exclusion of the tax and quota system and the replacement of this system by another based on fishing effort, the question on which this fleet's fishing is linked in those cases where the regulation of species is not subject to quotas from Europe. Reaching a full representation of these five elements must necessarily pass through five veins related to them and which constitute the five strategic axes on which to focus these objectives. These five axes meet the key elements in this proposal and could sum up in five lines: - A common, social and future fisheries policy. - Fair fishing trade, the level playing field. - A sustainable and compatible fishery with biodiversity conservation. - Adaptation to climate change and - Global co-governance as a basis for sustainability of activity. On the first axis, centered on a common fisheries policy, social policy and the future, we propose that, having recovered the state of the pendulums and a positive line in the economy, only alibiated by this crisis, which we hope to overcome, attention to the social aspect must now constitute one of the main objectives. We understand that this common fisheries policy must be given special care to the empowerment of the generational relief through the improvement of living conditions on board and the adequacy of training. In this sense, it is necessary to stimulate the promotion of marine-fishing and aquaculture activity in double order; firstly, by increasing the necessary consumption and the proper marketing of marine products as an element of economic dynamisation and generating better remuneration. And secondly, to recognize the value, interest and opportunities that employment in this area has, by linking this appreciation to a process of self-esteem advance that makes employability more attractive in this sector. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to create the conditions for technological renewal of production structures, lowering production costs and improving the conditions of accessibility and security, which is essential to make this profession a well-paid and attractive thing for European youth. With regard to the second axis, linked to a fair fishing trade, we want to point out that a fair world and European market would be the one in which only those who accepted the principles of a fair and balanced game could participate. In order to achieve this basic goal of full compliance with competition policy rules, the European Union must establish these minimum standards of compliance which define the level playing field applicable to all those who wish to participate in a fair and sustainable fisheries market, both at the European Union level and at the global level. In this sense, a fundamental action must be focused on preventing access to the Community market, with due red card, to all those who do not meet these requirements. Moreover, we share with the committee its defence of more international cooperation and of reviving multilateralism, and protecting and sponsoring international rule-based order, so reforming the WTO must be one of the priorities at the international level. As for the third axis, based on the demand for sustainable and biodiversity-friendly fishing, we want to make it clear that we believe this line is indispensable for the consolidation of the European Union and the world level of a sustainable blue economy, such as producing healthy food, creating decent jobs and contributing to climate neutrality and the fight against marine pollution. Therefore, we must highlight and value the nutritional capacity of the products of the sea, their contribution to health in the form of a balanced, healthy diet, as well as their low carbon and water footprint, reinforcing their sustainable economic, social and environmental role in those cases where the proximity between their production and consumption is a brand itself, as happens in much of the marine-fishing activity developed in Galicia. It is also necessary to strengthen, in order to improve the knowledge of stocks and ecosystems, the research and provision of an expanded system of data collection and provision, paper on which, also in view of the necessary co-governance, the sector and its professionals can contribute directly and in a simple way. The fourth axis is aimed at enhancing and promoting adaptation to climate change, where it is worth recalling the defence that the maritime-fishing sector and the Galician marine-industry chain realizes the concept of three-dimensional sustainability that must be balanced: social, environmental and economic. In this sense, and relating this axis to the United Nations sustainable development goals, it is worth noting that marine protein acquires an extraordinary strategic value that promotes as an essential element of food security. In addition, we must underline the importance of the debate on global warming and decarbonization, and we must address the dependence on fossil fuels and the effects of climate change on the resource management system by making it necessary a virtue. It is therefore necessary to develop the approach of the system in resource management wisely and progressively and to conduct a broad debate that will enable us to improve and strengthen the management of this sector and integrate it in a viable way in bets such as that of the European Green Pact. Finally, but no less important, the fifth axis calls for global co-governance as a basis for the sustainability of activity, so in international fisheries we support the creation of those that are necessary, understanding that there must be no ocean area that is not covered by a corresponding regional fishing organization. We understand that there must also be a necessary debate on the rebalancing of the European Union's capacity for decision-making in these management and management bodies in such a way that it meets its fisheries and trade dimension and is balanced with it. At the internal level of the European Union, the role played by the maritime-fisheries sector and the marine-industry chain in the development of the common fisheries policy should be re-evaluated, with particular emphasis on its collaboration and participation in co-governance at European, state and regional level. Galicia demonstrates the importance of the experience generated in the co-governance of its maritime-fishing activity and the key role played by the fishermen's confrries in this task, whose role as employees of the Administration in the management and management of maritime-fishing and generating of social economy and corporate social responsibility becomes here a paradigmatic role. We defend that the overall capacity to organize production and manage marketing makes these organizational and representative structures of recognition and capacity-building similar to other entities and producer organisations, both in terms of trade management and economic and financial support. Five whole elements and five matching axes will also be, apart from the theoretical proposal formulated, a practical bet that plasmas into 29 specific targets. By the time of this appearance and by your lordships, I will sum up in 10 key objectives these almost 30 general points that lead to the Welsh proposal. The first, pointing out that the renewal of the fishing fleet must respond to the demands of labour conditions and gender equality, and to the ecological transition. Eliminate volume limitation to allow better working and living conditions on board, and to facilitate the introduction of green technologies on board ships. This renewal must have specific application in the field of the craft fishing fleet, calling for a reinforcement of the economic support lines for it. The second, aimed at encouraging gender equality and actively promoting the participation of women in the labour market of this maritime-fishing activity through specific training programmes for women; and increasing the inclusion of measures to reconcile professional and personal life for both sexes. The third, which proposes that the European Union and its Member States should make use of all its trade defence instruments to ensure that only products from third countries which comply with minimum standards are marketed; as well as to analyse in detail the interrelationships of trade agreements to avoid inconsistencies between European Union policies. The fourth is focused on the demand for the European Union to make a proposal before the WTO for the homogenization of taxation in all countries producing international fisheries products and to maintain the fuel bonus until, at least, there are viable alternatives that can effectively replace fossil fuels used by the fishing sector. The fifth, which aims to recognise that handicraft fishing, aquaculture and seafood play a fundamental socio-economic role for populations living in peripheral maritime regions, maintaining social and territorial cohesion within the European Union. To this end, we believe that this opportunity should be taken to achieve and integrate an agreement which achieves a common definition on the characteristics of artisanal coastal fishing internationally and also to collect the unique features of maritime activity on foot as an element of the common fisheries policy. The sixth objective is to highlight the essential role of marine protein in European food security and its advantages in terms of carbon and water footprint, as well as loss of biodiversity. The seventh objective is, as a result of climate change, to make a necessary adjustment to the linkage between the existing areas of the populations and the ICES grids, improving quota allocation to the provision of fishing opportunities needs due to the pattern of fishing done, avoiding the problems that the current allocation rigges cause about fishing activity. The eighth objective takes up the view on aquaculture, understanding that it has a fundamental role to play in food security employment in maritime-peripheral areas, sustainable growth and technological innovation. To that end, any future reform, in addition to the collaboration and the proximity of the representative structures of the marine-fishing and aquaculture sector, should promote the sustainable development of aquaculture in general, specifically within the marine, micro-cultural and fish sectors. The ninth objective addresses protected marine areas, pointing out that these areas — promoted by local fishermen and seafarers — must be established and adopted in a proportionate, balanced and justified manner, and after the relevant scientific studies. The tenth objective is to focus on global ocean governance, highlighting three necessary aspects: the need to continue to work on the recognition and integration of the important role played by joint venture societies in this area, the defence of sustainable fisheries partnership agreements between the European Union and third states, and the need for the sustainability reflected in them to govern all fleets that are present in the quarries of a third country. The need to ensure sustainable and equitable fisheries management in the waters of the North-East Atlantic with all regulatory means, especially with the commercial at its disposal. But these simple elements, these objectives and the supporting axes would make no sense if we didn't bring them closer to the corresponding decision-making frameworks. Bringing this proposal to Madrid and Brussels is our intention, and doing so with its backing is key in this process. That is why I ask them to take action to support this Parliament by saying that the sector has approved and that they have been able to integrate their approaches. Moreover, we understand that this transfer of our proposal must be as broad as possible, which is why, and unless you add that your lordships point, we believe that this should be referred to the Greek parliamentarians of the Senate, Congress and the European Parliament in order to adopt the actions and positions they consider appropriate, and we also understand that we must all go together on this line. And if unity of opinion and action is important in Galicia, it's no less the search for allies on that common path for our voice to be heard. From that point on, we will continue to maintain contacts with the French fishing authorities to reach joint positions with a view to expanding them to other European fisheries regions. The contact took place on the occasion of the Summit of the Brest Oceans in February 2022, where the president of the board expressly invited the President of Brittany to participate in a major event on the common fisheries policy in Galicia by letter. This demand for support, which will be extended to other regions of countries such as Holland, Denmark and Ireland, will also seek the support of the main European fisheries representative entities as maximum representatives of the European fisheries sector. In addition, it can be fundamental this work of sum of allies in the major networks of Atlantic regions — the CCPM, the Atlantic Arc Commission — with this line of work a fundamental point at an event to be held on the next 6 and 7 June this year in the Coruña. In this event, potential partners will be called to participate, in collaboration with the Conference of Peripheral and Maritime Regions, in the search for a position of the main fisheries regions of the European Union, with Galicia at the head of the fort to be moved to DG MARE, which will hold on June 10 on the orientation and revision of the common fisheries policy. I have already finished and I do so with thanks to all the people who have put part of their time in the elaboration of this dictatorship, who have enriched it with a single goal of defending the marine-fishing sector of Galicia and its chain of sea-industrial industry. In this House, I would like to thank the three political groups of this Parliament for their willingness to participate, their respect for the work of the Group of the Galician Fisheries Council, and their approach so that this document would be stronger and stronger. Let me thank you very much today for the work and dedication of the members of the Galician Fisheries Council's working group. And from here we thank Roberto Carlos Alonso, Juan Vieites, Edelmiro Ulloa, Jesús Lourido, Torcuato Teixeira, Sergio López, José Antonio Pérez Sieira, Rita González, Ricardo Herbón and Lino Suárez. They are the protagonists of an important fact, the whole sector has been represented and they have decided all the directions of this proposal which the Council of the Sea refers to with its support and with the sum of its criteria. Today, as 10 years ago with the previous reform of the common fisheries policy, the sector marks its course and we give it a voice with the only intention and objective that, in the next revision of this fundamental European fisheries line, Galicia be the one who marks the way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u4	Thank you, Counselor. We turn around the parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u5	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. We also from the PSdG Parliamentary Group also want to thank and acknowledge the work done by that working group created within the Galician Fisheries Council. It is true that this is a document, a dictation which was drawn up precisely by that working group created to effect. It was drawn up, it was debated. It is true that the council itself has counted on the spokesmen of the three groups, the fishing spokesmen of the three parliamentary groups, so that we have also made the relevant approaches. We, after talking to the sector and telling us that it was really all collected, because it was actually done by the sector itself, because it is true that we do not present a number of formal allegations because it is true that we share the document as it is drawn up. And what you were saying is that today I took advantage of this audience to have this Parliament ratify this dictation. You know that this is not the procedure, and it is not necessary for this Parliament to ratify this statement, which, of course, has been done by those who know the most about the sector. Perhaps the parliamentary procedure would be another one for us to be able to vote on all the groups and to move, as you said, this would dictate to our Members and Members, to our Members. And you know that an appearance is not the procedure for us to vote and ratify with our vote this dictation, which, as I say to you, of course counts on the support of the PSdG. But the truth is that you, who can logically use the appearances for what you think is convenient, this is a document that was already known — at least the three parliamentary groups — that, as I said, was approved by the Council of Wales' Council of Fisheries, we today miss a little bit that you did not come here today to talk about other things that really mattered with the Government of Greece. And I am referring to the fact that today I believe — and I say it with all due respect — that you have missed a unique opportunity to come here to tell the sector these complementary measures that would be so necessary to help the sector at this difficult time that it is going through these excessive fuel prices. You always criticise the measures taken by the Central Government, but they have not been able to put any further measures to those measures by the Central Government, as the sector has asked them to do and as other autonomous communities have done. [[Applause]] You've also lost the chance today to come and give a solution to a problem intentionally created by your counseling, I'm talking about the problem created between drummers and fellows. And you lost that chance today too. And you've also lost the opportunity today—because we're talking about the Galician Fisheries Council and so much have you talked about gender equality—, you could also explain to them today why you denied entry to the Galician Fisheries Council to the only autonomous association of women in fishing. You could also explain today why you deny that entry to the Galician Fisheries Council. [[Applause]] And, as I said, this PSdG Parliamentary Group shares that dictate of the Galician Fisheries Council, as it could not be otherwise, because it is the fruit of the work of those who know our sector best. There was talk here about small-scale fishing, and we agreed with many things that you said because they're collected in that saying. And we understand that the current definition of small-scale fishing, which is included both in the FEMP and the FEMPA Regulation, excludes certain vessels, as well as those using traditional arts, which in turn have difficulties in obtaining funding from the European Union as a result of this exclusion. This exclusion we all know also reduces its visibility and its presence in European Union statistics. This review of what we are talking about, this review which we hope will be carried out in the common fisheries policy should allow us to develop, as you said, a common definition of this small-scale artisanal fishing and this small-scale fishing which includes other characteristics of the segment, as we know that this small-scale fishing is characterized by low impact; seasonal diversity in terms of species, whaling and fishing gear; operating the low-scale production scale; respecting biological and migratory cycles of different species due to polyvalence; also these low levels of catches, accessories and discards of species; and also giving greater value added to that socio-economic aspect, which is so important that Europe once heard that there are two other aspects of fishing, not just the environment. And I also use it to say that this draft fisheries law which has been adopted at the Council of Ministers recently also has an impact on these two legs of the fisheries sector as well. Matters relating to the safety and comfort of the small-scale fleet cannot be considered separately from those relating to fishing effort and fishing performance. In this respect we all know that the limitation of crude tonnage as a criterion for measuring fishing capacity has a negative impact on the safety and comfort of this fleet, as it limits the incentive to replace and modernise vessels or increase, for example, the space available in order to improve the comfort of the crew, the safety and, ultimately, something that you were also talking about, the attractiveness of the sector especially for young people and women. The raw archeology criteria for measuring fishing capacity or also including space reserved for crew installations and comfort hinder the modernization of our fishing vessels and the much-needed improvement of the working conditions of the small-scale fleet. The Commission must therefore review these criteria to find a solution that can balance the needs of workers in the sector with the need to control the fishing capacity of the European Union fleet. And the Commission must also study the creation of a certified sea product label and a mechanism for branding fishery products that can encourage consumers to buy products from the sea of local and sustainable origin, as well as to raise consumers' awareness of small-scale fleet products. Access to financing for weaker segments of the fleet should be facilitated to encourage value chains and avoid market failures. Training issues, as you said, should also be addressed. It is necessary to harmonise and approve the requirements and procedures for nautical-fishing training at European Union level, as well as the procedures and stipulations for boarding, so that the movement of labour between the Member States is not hindered. This will also serve to ensure that generational relief. Of gender equality, you were talking too. Women's work often takes place in informal settings and data for the purposes of wages, social benefits, retirements or occupational diseases are not taken into account. It is urgent that member states fully professionalize these women by recognizing their role and their integration into national social protection systems. And here I also want to refer to the recent approved fishing bill that first collects this historical claim for so many years, of so many women in our fishing sector who will finally be recognized those reducing coefficients and, in some cases, improved. And it goes from here that we've already advanced that we're even going to present an amendment to make it clear that batteries are also entitled to those reducing coefficients. Actions aimed at attracting young people to fishing should ensure gender balance and take into account the role women play in the fisheries sector as a whole, from fish catch to ship management, through aquaculture, seafood, marketing and processing of fishery products, as well as their role in science and administration. Associationism between women in the fisheries sector should be encouraged to provide greater visibility and assistance to women. Capacity measurement standards also make it difficult for women to access the sector, since they require separate spaces to ensure their privacy and well-being, which comes into conflict with the strict principle that we have today not to increase fishing effort. Here, on the subject of equality between men and women, we also want to claim that the Council of Galicia is taking forward that agreement, that yes, adopted unanimously in this House, on this observatory of women's Greek equality in fishing. We must also address these common fisheries policy issues such as the obligation to land. You have been talking about it, in fact until today the European Commission has not been informed either of the extent to which this reduction in discards has been achieved, nor of the socio-economic impact of the obligation to land or the effects of its application on the safety on board fishing vessels. So you have to keep working, analyzing the data; it's very important the subject of scientific analysis and data, and I also want to remember here that this new fishing law, that bill that just approved the Central Government, goes on to boost that scientific data that we then know is fundamental to being able to negotiate many of the things that matter to us in Europe as well. You were also talking about the issue of taxation, which is a challenge we have, which has the sector there with that threat so much from the Organization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u7	...the World Trade — finished, president — as well as the European Union itself to eliminate these subsidies from fossil fuels. We therefore agree — I repeat — with regard to this statement, but the fact is that we are missing a lot of other things that we believe are also very necessary for the sector today. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Allow me, Mr President, that before the intervention begins, even if he is not present, he celebrates on behalf of the entire Galician Nationalist Group what we have already passed on to him in private, he celebrates his presence in the plenary today of Mr. Puy. We're glad he's back and, in any case, we wish him better health. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in order to address this issue we must bear in mind primarily that what the European Commission intends to do is just a review of what is going on. That is, the latest reform, which came into force in 2014 and focused mainly on the sustainability of fish stocks, ending excessive fishing practices and creating new opportunities for employment and growth in coastal areas. I mean, we start with that what's coming is a slight review and not a real reform of what's already existed since 2014; and that, even with positive elements, we have to agree that it has brought enormous sacrifices and renouncements to the Welsh fishing sector, beginning with the drastic reduction of the fleet in the last ten years, which has fallen into more than 500 vessels. That's why we believe that the recognition of the achievements of previous reforms, those referring to the document itself, affects many nuances and many arguments against them. To begin with, the most important impact of these earlier reforms and, above all, the horrendous failure to achieve the balance of the three pillars of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. And precisely the absolute preponderance of the social economy makes us regret that the document before us, drawn up, as it has been said, by the ad hoc working group of the Galician Fisheries Council, is not even more risky. However, we understand the context and the effort made, but we cannot accept issues that the BNG proposed in its amendments and that we consider them important that they were not collected; issues that in our judgment bring more clarity to some of the paragraphs. In any case, to make it clear that our intention was at all times to add up and also to express here the complaint that the debate, Counsellor, should be slower between the parliamentary groups themselves and the people who make up the working group, and not only through counseling. We do not understand - and I want to make it clear again - the reluctance, the zeal of the council itself by not allowing and even promoting, on such occasions as this, meetings between the working group, in this case, or the Galician Fisheries Council itself and the parliamentary groups. We don't understand. We believe that the composition and structure of the Galician Fisheries Council itself is limited, we have already told it on other occasions and therefore assumes an important asset in reaching richer debates and surely much more enlightening. In any case, in our amendment document it is obvious that a successful design of the common fisheries policy has to strengthen economic cohesion, yes, but, above all, and you have also mentioned social; it has to strengthen technological innovation and indeed improve working conditions, aiming at food sovereignty and hence supply to the population of healthy and low-impact animal protein. And so we picked it up from one of our amendments that was actually taken into account. We also agree that equal conditions at work are an extremely important challenge, especially when we consider that the European Union consumes large amounts of fish from non-Community fleets which, of course, from our point of view - and is also collected in the document - should not play with advantage those extra-Community fleets when introducing and marketing their products here. Compliance with the labour and environmental regulations that are demanding and guaranteeing must be a common element to respect and not, as is already happening, a huge distortion, as it is actually at present, where the rules, especially the strictest, are only for one. We are particularly interested in our amendments to highlight the uniqueities of our own, the traditional structures and activities in Galicia: of course the confrries, strengthening their role and putting them at the level of other structures. They are satisfied in this sense that the demand for a revision of the concept of a highly fisheries-dependent zone is being raised, given the importance of the most important social and fishing weight in Galicia. That is not how it was collected, clearly, I mean, the elimination — from our point of view — of the principle of relative stability, which gave rise precisely to the static division that exists today and which has resulted and is totally ineffective for the conservation of resources and absolutely detrimental to Galicia. In this respect we also proposed and accepted the exclusion of the TAX system - you said so, Counsellor - and shares of the craft fleet, although, at last, we are very afraid that there will have to be intense work to ensure that this aspect is considered by the European Union. We also contribute our vision of tax exemptions to fishing fuel and we see that our proposal is also being collected that their elimination should not be carried out in any case before there are viable alternatives that can replace current fossil fuels. In this paragraph, in view of the policy of the European Union itself, and even today, in view of what we are familiar with about the work of the WTO, we do not have too much hope for us to be heard, neither for us nor for the Galician Fisheries Council, which has indeed taken up this contribution. Neither does it seem to us to bet enough, but it still does not seem to us to bet enough on craft fishing. In this sense, it is essential for us that the current differentiation between artisanal and industrial fishing does not continue on the basis only of the length of the vessel which is so detrimental to the fishing sector in Greece. We do not agree that — and this is so drawn up in the document — in the EU there is already a balance between artisanal and industrial fishing, we do not agree with this statement. The clearest example we've mentioned before, precisely when we talk about the TACs and quotas to which it is subjected. They must be taken into account, and this is the moment, from our point of view, even if it is not a reform in depth, the proposals for handicraft fishing, the differentiation between artisanal and industrial fishing, the proposals that have been on the table for some time now and add other elements to define artisanal fishing, and it must be taken into account its sustainability at this time of great, precisely, impact, climate change and social importance. From there too - I insist - our proposal for their exclusion from the TAC system and quotas that have been collected in the final text. We also value, Counsellor, our contributions on the development of aquaculture, and the preponderance of coastal uses for artisanal fishing, seafood and mexillo production. However, we believe that the final text does not put a hundred percent on this model, by this model, so we bet, and avoid collecting the non-replacement of extractive fishing by industrial aquaculture. Finally, a document as a whole that we consider alone, that is, it is improved, of course, but we consider it only a part of the way, a path that takes years, in which we have been hurdled by years and we are very afraid that it will not vary enough for this to change. Because, and this, Counsellor, we have to tell you clearly too, too many years have passed without the Welsh fishing, its potential and its good work being sufficiently defended by the governments, by Spanish and by the Union, and there you have a great deal of responsibility. At this point, it is inescapable that a fishing country like ours has no voice in the institutions in which they debate and decide each and every one of the policies to be carried out in the fishing sector. It is incomprehensible that in matters of the highest order for the development of our fishing is not related to the participation of the German Government. And you -- I insist on this -- have to recognize that they haven't done or done, to our trial, enough. It's more, we, and also much of the sector, are now convinced of the many problems we live in, he's convinced that they don't have anyone to defend them, that they're at the heart of decisions that take hundreds of miles and don't know our reality at all. The problem, Counsellor, will also grow when, besides having no firm defence of our fishing outside, in the EU and in Madrid, neither is there here. I've already given you the fact that over the last ten years the German fishing industry has lost more than 500 boats, but membership of Social Security...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u10	You have to finish, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u11	... (I ended up) on the fishing and aquaculture regime fell about 20%. In shellfish, for example, we had 4,755 seafood permits on foot and today, since 2009, we have 3,700. The Galician Waters Dump Control Plan found in 2020 that 249 contaminants were detected in the Galician rivers and by 2021 until September it was 265. I mean, that Junta isn't, and it's not the powers of other administrations, it's not working what you have to work on precisely so that our sector will grow and not shrink as you've seen in the last ten years. In our next intervention, Counselor, we will notice some of the other issues we also want to underline. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. For the People's Party, you have the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Quintana. The fact is that we are in the light of the proposal from the Galician Fisheries Council, to which you have called the spokespersons of the various groups of this Parliament, to inform us, to give us a copy of that statement; all of the Members who are linked to this sector in Parliament have had knowledge and have been able to make our contributions, contributions which the Nationalist Block of Galicia has made and, as he said, has also explained some of those proposals have been accepted. The Galician Socialist Party has made no contribution, we don't know if it's 100 percent according to the first draft, we don't know if it's 100 percent against and disagrees with everything, or we don't know if it really doesn't interest you at all because it's here beginning its intervention by accusing Mrs. Quintana of her mantras that you now have to do politics with fishing and not focus on this document. As I said, they are different ways of ruling, Mrs. Quintana. When the bipartisan was there, they didn't count on the opposition party to consult; they already had difficulty agreeing with each other. And, therefore, we believe that we are on the right track, that the People's Parliamentary Group could also make its contributions, that the Galician Council always counts on the Galician Fisheries Council, that on this occasion Mrs Pérez too, when she has no arguments, she questions the Galician Fisheries Council on occasion. We fully agree that it works and has its contributions; and therefore they are different ways of working. We thank him very much for you offering us that draft, that dictation, and that he comes here today to report. Well, Mrs. Otero, you say we can talk about other matters, or that Mrs. Quintana has lost the opportunity to speak about other matters; just as you have lost the opportunity to speak about other matters that matter to your party, to a Government of Spain which is of the Socialist Party, which is indeed directly attacking fishing and, in addition, that is insulting the Greeks. Because in this Parliament, in the last few days, in the last few months, we are debating, we are insisting on the maintenance of the headquarters of the IEO and the headquarters of Galicia, in Vigo; and the minister arrives and what he does is: I do not give you the seat, I give you a table. A table of fisheries science that doesn't even know how it's going to be formed, that you don't even know what it is, that you don't know if you have budget, and your thirst doesn't; therefore you've missed an opportunity to explain here exactly what that means and that none absolute to fishing, to scientists and Galicia in general. So you'll have another replica so you can explain it. You also speak of the law, you spoke here quite a long time of a fishing law, a fishing law that also messes with the sector; a fishing law that also occasionally your party insults by calling the people who are engaged in fishing, which is also making the sector and the artisanal fishing, which also has conflicts, as you say in the coastal sector and which even you are going to amend right now, you have just said, the Socialist Party of Galicia itself. So you missed a golden opportunity to explain here to the fishing sector, too, all the messes that the Socialist Party is putting into. I insist, Mrs. Otero, that you didn't interest this proposal at all, you didn't present any input, and you come here now saying or, as I say, with your Galician gloves without explaining why the Socialist Party is now mistreating so much the fishing sector in Galicia. And, Mrs. Pérez, I tell you that whenever you play or check something, or if you notice something, it's good that there's a warning in Galicia, it's good that in Galicia the fishing sector puts all the alarms to work and all the tools that we have at our disposal to avoid getting to a draw that doesn't suit us. That's why we think this is important, because it gave me the feeling that you also started saying that it was just a little review of what had been done. I think we're in a context that's important, as was done on other occasions and in 2013 also or previously those revisions. Now we're in 2022 and we're in a context where priorities change, where Brussels now has other topics on the table that can be shocking and can directly affect Galicia in a negative way. So, I think, rather than talking about what happened earlier and all the agreements that have been reached, we have to look forward and power in this case to many agreements that will be beneficial to Galicia. And that's what the Fisheries Adviser, Mrs. Quintana, has done today by presenting this document. As he said, as it is, we all have in our power and publicly can be consulted that document, 25 pages, are based on five axes of the common fisheries policy, social policy and the future, which is also important, including this factor of fair fishing, sustainable fishing, compatible with biodiversity, adaptation to climate change, global co-governance as a base of sustainability. These are terms and concepts that maybe in the previous revisions were not on top of the table and should therefore be taken into account. Mrs. Pérez, then you've finished by criticizing the management of the board or direct criticisms that the advisor and the board are not close to the sector, but that's, let's go, that honestly has no credibility, you have no credibility, based on the fact that today's paper on what we're talking about here comes out of a working group that's from the co-governance sector 100 percent applied and a Galician Fisheries Council where the whole sector is represented. So closer and closer in collaboration with the sector can't be found. Fundamental issues also discussed and discussed that you have also dealt with and that are important, which are dealt with here in Parliament and in the Council, challenges that we must also face and are debates that we will have, of course, also in the future, and that we have had before: the most sustainable yield, the discards, the regionalization, are decisions closer to the fishermen, you can also explain it to Mrs Quintana, but it is a very important term and a factor that is now on the table, which is most important also in the different regions. The rights transmitted and fishing, the artisanal coastal fishing, socio-economic aspects that are now taking more account of what have been seen in the previous revisions. So I believe that the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party present a lot of differences in the practice of politics or from politics to fishing their work, many differences with respect to the People's Party. We remember that the past reform Ana Miranda had presented 8 amendments and Carmen Fraga 50, 50 directly exits from Galicia, because it is also a common line of work and, as I say, in contact with and in collaboration with the Government of Galicia. You, the Bloc gentlemen, once there, also spoke of the Socialist Party, but the Socialist Party is more evident because they are already in Spain and they are already seen before; but when we arrive in Brussels, you, the Bloc lords, I say, Mrs Pérez, agree, because here they are very demanding but there they are voting, they are deciding with the Greens, making decisions that affect the fisheries sector very negatively in Galicia. So all the claims that come out of here, then they are not true, are not found in Brussels. In Brussels the decisions are different and the votes are different, and we have talked about them many times in Commission 8a too. Another action by the People's Party that also distinguishes us from the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, because here we are political representatives and we have to know the Members too. The People's Party has put 99% of the legal resources against relative stability, of which you have also spoken, by the width, by the allocation of quotas also in the Baltic in 2003, since 1996, always defending the interests of fishing in Galicia, since the People's Party is facing it. Do you want to remember when there was the bipartite who went through the fishing sector? Do you want to remember? Because all they've done is ignore it absolutely. First, no one wanted the Fisheries Council, no one wanted it, neither the PSOE nor the Nationalist Block Galego, it seems he stayed there finally to see who took it. And then we ended up with very negative data, you didn't even want to arrange retirement for women who worked at sea. And, look, I'm going to tell you about data: they bet on breaking up boats, I always say, I'm going to remember because I haven't been saying so for a while. Look, the Government that most ships plan to fire was the bipartisan; it plans to carry out 93 redundancies between the 8th and the 10th, and with the People's Party 37 ships were laid off in the same period, now that we're talking about these issues. If we followed that pace, we wouldn't have ships today; it was a real disaster to manage it. So we're talking about political parties, governments that, when they have responsibilities, make decisions on one line or another. Then I will speak also, as I say, of the Government of Spain, which is of the Socialist Party, Mrs Otero; you have lost the opportunity to speak of the following. Look, apart from all the aggravations of the central government in the area of the sea — which I will start with the impact of the law on the sea-industry chain, which you already know was tremendous and which is still tremendous and there is no excuse — I spoke before the Science Bureau, insulting the vigues, insulting the Greeks for not leaving the headquarters of the IEO in Vigo and Galicia. And the minister arrives and says he's going to make a table, he has to explain to you what that means, I'd ask him to explain it in the next shift. The resource of the Marshal Plan 2021 — I remind you too — the dismemberment of the Spanish Oceanography Institute — I remember it too — the problem of the scale of the Marrakesh. That's all decisions that a Government of the Socialist Party has made, everything. So if you think that Mrs Quintana has lost the opportunity to talk about some of the issues that are her mantras and lies and falsehoods — because Mrs Quintana has come here to report her own request for this proposal for review — you have lost the opportunity as a Socialist Party Member to talk about all the damage the Socialist Party is making to fishing, to the fishing sector in Galicia and that she will leave us at the foot of the horses absolutely with all the decisions they are making. The exclusion of the transforming industries from the products of the sea of aid to alleviate the crisis arising from the war in Ukraine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u15	...they've forgotten them too. The remission of the debt of the Harbour Authority of Valencia to the detriment of the Coruña, to the detriment of the port authorities of Galicia. So, Mrs. Otero, there's no time here to talk about the damage the Socialist Party is doing in fishing here in the autonomous Greek community. Madam Quintana, the proposal to award it to all Members, the contributions you well know who has done and who has done absolutely nothing — as the Socialist Party said —. And we think it's good every time you work with the Galician Fisheries Council, and we'll be supporting from this Popular Parliamentary Group all the decisions that go on that line because we're supporting a responsible government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u17	... near the fishing sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u18	Thank you. Replica. Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Well, actually, I think it's extremely important that I, as Counselor of the Sea, appear in this House and give explanations of the fundamental elements that make up the dictate we have prepared in Galicia to defend what we understand from Galicia should be the complete review of the common fisheries policy. We can agree with Mrs Pérez that the European Commission's intention is to make only a slight adjustment, but it is our duty and our obligation — and I think it is perfectly committed — to give the necessary arguments and seek the necessary support to enable the Commission to understand that it has to make a genuine revision of the common fisheries policy. And that's the fundamental element of that work, and that's why we've been dedicated since the end of the year 2021 to develop this dictatorship that, as you know, was the proposal, yes, of an idea that emerges from the board itself, but that was developed thanks to the working group that was set up at the Galego Fisheries Council. All transparency, Mrs Pérez, and you know it. We, once the Galician Fisheries Council unanimously approved its dictatorship, had the meeting with the spokesmen of the three political groups, and also moved to the Galician Fisheries Council that our idea was that all the political groups represented in the House had known that document so they could enrich it with their proposals. Once you brought us your arrivals — and I thanked you personally — because the working group was rejoined, and it was the working group itself that decided which proposals coming out of the Galician Nationalist Block were accepted and which were not. I mean, we didn't have a lot of impact to say: this because it comes from the Block is not acceptable; on the contrary, we try to make the document really encompass the interests of all of the common fishing fleet, because that's what we're interested in all of us. Actually, I don't understand Mrs. Otero's position, to recriminalize her being here today. I think it is logical that the spokespersons of the fishing world know this document, but I also believe it is my responsibility to transfer it to all Members of the House so that they are all aware of the work being done, of what Galicia is trying to achieve in Europe the timely changes to the common fisheries policy, so that our fishing will continue to have a future. That's why I think this show is a coincidence, and I know that from here it won't come out a vote to decide whether or not it has been approved, but, of course, from this presentation, from this show, there can be some initiative that if you hold a vote, as we did in 2012. And the claim we are looking for, of course, is only to get the support of the whole House, because that would be a formula for reaching the rest of the regions of the European Union and also the European Commission and Parliament itself, saying that it is the position of all Galicia and not just the position of its sector. I was recriminalized that I could come here to explain the pending follow-up measures to help the fleet through the crisis that is going on. I should like to point out to you that you can comment on this with the representatives of the sector, we have talked with the sector and we have proposed to you either to start with the aid already or to wait for the Commission's decision to authorize us to use FEMPA funds so that we can make much more powerful aid. The sector's decision was to wait for that decision and, therefore, we are now authorized through the operational programme to be able to apply these aid, of course, to start. I am much more surprised than to say that the conflict between drummers and captors was me. The truth is that you know only the marine sector, and you don't know the reality of the marine sector and the other Galician coastal sector. I can tell you that the clashes between fellows and drummers have been coming for many years. I don't want confrontations, I tried to get them into operating agreements; when that's not possible, we have to regulate it. And we have to regulate it for the sector of understanding and for the coastal sector, and we have to get a sustainable exploitation of both resources, and that's what we're doing. And looking for the way of dialogue always and understanding among all, and always criticizing insults, threats and aggressions, that can't be part of the work system. And I can tell you that, if you don't believe me, do a review of the hemero library where you will see the conflicts that have always existed, because it's logical, when you compete for the spaces, that there are these certain differences. But I am convinced that both drummers and fellows have all the will of the world to achieve a sustainable exploitation of the two resources, the two fundamental to the Galician economy and also from a social point of view. And as for the representation at the Galego Fisheries Council, look, since I arrived at the Government in 2009, if I was concerned about something, it was to give strength and representation to the Galego Fisheries Council. There is a decree that regulates its functioning and the people who compose it; I do not choose people, people choose the different subsectors that form part of the Galician Fisheries Council. I can tell you that, unlike what happened when you were ruling in Galicia from 2005 to 2009, where only the Galician Fisheries Council met twice, here the Galician Fisheries Council met very often, the representatives elected the sub-sectors of the entire sea-industry chain. And I can tell you that in the people where I can freely designate them to be part of the Galego Fisheries Council, a representation held by Mupesca, the National Association of Fisheries Women — which represents all the women of fishing — and another held by the President of the Redeiras Federation. I mean, in the two free spots that I have both gave them to two women who represent the world of fishing. I don't think I can really accept from you under any concept that you seem a doubt about the representativeness I give to women in the fishing world, because I remind you that associationism on foot, which is the sector where the most female presence has, began in 1991 when I was head of the Marisqueo Service; and between the chief of the Marsqueo Service of that time and the head of extension Marisqueira we started the association process -- it's written in a book -- and, in the face of the opposition of some political group who didn't want the visibility of these women and that they didn't want women to contribute to Social Security, and that there is also in the hemerotheca evidence that they were supposed to have no right to contribute to social security. That's more, it was intended that, well, as much as they do for hours; i.e., they're on a daily basis, but they're never entitled to a pension. And that, Mrs. Otero, today is a reality, today the seamstresses have the right to contribute to Social Security; today the seamstresses, when there is a cerebroke for toxins or some other disease, have the right to a cessation of activity. And that was all done with the People's Party governments. [[Applause]] I understand that you in the document that relates to the reform of the common fisheries policy defended the need to seek a new definition for the small-scale fleet or the artisanal coastal fleet. And I'm telling you, welcome to the club, we're defending that stance; it's more, I don't think you can understand that there's a definition for handicraft coastal fishing that defends itself in international organizations and that it's not the one that defends itself in the European Union. And what I would ask you to do — let me finish this first speech — is to speak to your MEPs and vote for what they have to vote when they have to vote, because what is not worth saying here is something and then, when a proposal is put forward for an appropriate definition for our handicraft coastal fleet, which in Brussels is voted against by your socialist MEP. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u20	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u21	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, I would also ask you to speak to your colleagues in the PP Parliament in Madrid when you are going to vote on subjects in Madrid that we have already voted here in this German Parliament, and also to vote in the same way as you have voted here. I am talking, for example, about the issue of the IEO, the headquarters of the IEO, the subject of transfers to Galicia of the IEO, which his colleagues in Madrid voted against. Therefore, coherence, Counselor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Egerique said I'd come with the old mantras. Look, with the old mantras came Mrs. Egerique because she even got to read so much that she said, "No, it's just that the problem with the drummer sector has the Socialist Party." Of course, since the PSdG Parliamentary Group we condemn these acts, well, because of some violence that has been inflicted on your person. But the truth is that it shows that really the problem between drummers and fellows does not have this parliamentary group — as Mrs Egerique said — but, Counsellor, I agree with you that it is a problem that is of your competence and that you have to solve. And that, of course, what can't be sought is a confrontation, we have to look for two sectors that are fundamental -- which we agree with you in which are two fundamental economic sectors -- of our autonomous community, they can live in the same space because we know that they have to live in the same space. I didn't want to create that doubt, I meant it was that we thought you had lost that opportunity today to explain also problems that concern and that very close to our sector. The truth is that Mrs Egerique found me a lot of things, and she even told me that we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, were the ones that we didn't want women fishing to get better at these social benefits, those retirement benefits, I'm talking about those reducing coefficients. But, Mrs. Egerique, how can you tell me that exactly this week? Because it was precisely a government presided over by a socialist who put in a law those reducing coefficients for those women of the sea who have been fighting for them for so many and so many years. [[Applause]] He accused me of insulting the Central Government and the Socialist Party, of insulting the fishermen and the shipowners by calling them saddle-owners. I think you know what you mean by calling armaments and silton fishermen. Because you share, Mrs. Egerique, do you share that there are shipowners who only use their fishing opportunities to negotiate and commercialize with them? Do you share that? Those shipowners who don't use those fishing opportunities, which are public resources, for fishing activity? Because then we say there's no fishing opportunities. You share, don't you? that there may be those silton shipowners who only do commercialize with those fishing possibilities, but who don't use them for fishing? Then you can explain to me whether or not you share that position. Look, Mrs. Egerique, I understand that you have recently been very nervous in the People's Party; there has been a remodeling of the Government; you have not been appointed Counsellor, so you belong to the Popular Parliamentary Group, you belong to the Popular Parliamentary Group. Can you tell me how many allegations the People's Parliamentary Group has made to this statement? Because another thing the German Government can talk about, but you as a parliamentarian of the People's Parliamentary Group did not present any. And I said that from our group we wouldn't make any claims because, talked to the sector, and I said it in my first intervention, that the document was made by the sector itself, they understood that all the claims were collected. So I explained my position. But of course, you come here to say that the Socialist Party has not made any allegations, but that neither has the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique. So you'll explain if it didn't really matter to that document either. We have agreed, and we have thus moved it to these meetings, which is important what is envisaged in that statement, which we are facing a very important scenario for the European Union, especially in aspects of what we have been discussing for a long time in this House. Most of all, I have also pretended to the importance of these social and economic pillars, because it seems that the European Union has been thinking only about environmental issues lately. We shared very much for not saying everything that you came here to explain today. But I just couldn't ignore that in the complicated situation the sector is going through, that you didn't put those complementary measures on the table today that you say you talked to the sector and that you don't want them at the moment, when we all know that the National Federation of Brotherhood itself urged all the autonomous communities to put those complementary measures on the table. So the sector is asking for it. And then the theme of women's representation on the Galego Fisheries Council, it's true that the National Association of Fisheries Women is represented, but I think that here we are in Galicia, that there is an association that is the only autonomous association of fishing women, they might also have a lot to say. And just remind you of a little thing, Counselor, don't forget to take that Galego Women's Equality Observatory into fishing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Egerique, you say I've finished my speech by making criticism. Of course, what did he want? May I applaud the Counselor's lady? Did you want me to give you a round of applause? To applaud you are already, you are already, Mrs. Egerique. [[Applause]] But, look, I'm going to ask you next time you intervene, please, both here and in the Fisheries Committee, please review what you have written, it's not gonna happen to you like Mr. Rajoy and you don't know what you've written. Because you don't understand how you can say in the same sentence one thing and the opposite. For example, he said that in this issue I got into the previous reform, the policy that is in force in the year 2014, that we didn't have to look back, that we have to look forward. Of course, so far forward, you see that in the same sentence you look at Carmen Fraga and the bipartite. Mrs. Egerique, it is that these arguments are not really understood. Look, here we are seeing is that there was an audience of the sea councillor to talk about the dictates of the Galician Fisheries Council regarding the review, review, Mrs. Egerique; if you don't like the way I say it, listen again to the audio because the counselor also said it, and perhaps he likes more as she says, review. Well, we came here to talk about that and here everyone finished talking about their book. Of course, some have talked about the book of the new fishing law, which we'll see, still has a long journey and there's still much to do in the fishing law, much to do. And others came here, as they did not, to criticize those who do the Fisheries Law, that is, the Government of the State. And, of course, some and others as usual are starting to throw their rags at their heads and say, of course, that you voted, that you stopped voting. Well, look, talking about votes, and I think it's... we can put dozens of examples, but talking about votes and complaints, you now, Mrs. Egerique, are outraged by the issue of IEO, of course, but it turns out that they voted in favour of a proposal that presented the Nationalist Block in Wales and seven days later, not even seven months or seven years later, seven days later, they voted the same against the Congress of Deputies. But they do not lose it, of course, because it turns out that the PSOE now actually accuses the PP that it does not vote here the same as in Madrid. But it's just that the PSOE voted in favour of that same initiative here and arrived in Madrid seven days later and abstained. And coherence, in fact, lives coherence. [[Applause]] Counselor, I'll also talk about my book, of course, I'll talk about my book, because here everyone has spoken of what they wanted. And we want animals, but we really will ask for them in writing; but, in any case, we want to take this opportunity for animals to appear in this Parliament, indeed, to take account of their own policy, of the policy that lies with the council as to their own competences, and even as to the competences of others, we know what they are doing and developing their advice. Because before, by the end of my intervention, I was beginning to give you some data about how we have the sector, which I'm not going to repeat because they're known but, indeed, between 2009 and today 2022, let's actually look at what we're looking at, the data really always decreases. And they were talking, you were talking in your intervention, too, about the generational rebound. And I've already told you on other occasions, we don't understand how you can flag off the generational remittance when the fisheries advisor is spending 300,000 euros on the generational remittance. But not only that, they even reduced the budget with respect to the year 2019 because it must have seemed a lot to him. Of course, what generational expenses are we going to do this, Counselor? But they've also been ruling for 13 years and also in fishing, good at all, at all. I've said here many times that you were the champions, right? And it turns out that now, after not working to obtain a single competition from the Councillory of the Sea, it turns out that it now banners the Councillor of the Sea and the Councillory of the Sea the defense of the sea-industry chain. Counselor, of course, it's very good to be defended. We support him. We have come to support a People's Party initiative in Commission 8. Do you know that you were asking for the People's Party initiative? That a dialogue table should be set up. Of course, we're not going to be the ones who refuse to make up a real dialogue table. But we wondered why in 13 years we did not set up the real table of dialogue that had to be set up, which is that of the Bilateral Transfer Commission; and why we do not have any more transfers on the matter of public maritime-terrestrial domination at this time. It will be, Counselor, because since the German Government they have not asked, because they have never cared and now they care just enough to confront the Government of the State. Of course... in the end. [[Applause]] Now, what is happening right now in Greek fishing is the fruit of many years, indeed, of erratic policies of the European Union itself, of hyperregulation, etc., but we are not mistaken, also of a policy from the Greek Government that did not have as priority, and this year's budgets show it more than ever, I did not have as priority the fishing sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u25	—I shall finish, Mr President. And, of course, we ask ourselves at this point, now, with your new one, and we hope that last appointment, if you're going to change something from what you're the new advisor to the sea. Will you change something, Counselor? Sure, is something going to change within the People's Party? The part of the dance of chairs that they've just done between each other, do you at some point see Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Tellado in the Senate defending Galicia? Does he really see you defending the Welsh fishing? We'll look at him in the votes at his own time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u27	—And finished definitely. Counselor, the Sea Council is missing and only appears to ask someone to resign. They've just asked for their own. They've just asked for the Director General of Fisheries. By the way, you've been wrong many times, and you've seen that you're not wrong about the resignations and withdrawals that are going to happen in the council. Look carefully because there are love that kills, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u29	I'm telling you for the good of the fishing sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u30	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u31	...not for the sake of his party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u33	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u34	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u35	Thank you, President. Madam Quintana, the truth is that sometimes the speeches of the opposition spokespersons are even comical. Because, Mrs. Otero, you seem... yes, it seems to me, that you're very funny to tell me, accusing me of not making any allegations. The People's Parliamentary Group, the Galician People's Party supports the Galician Union and the policies of the Galician Union, which, after election, elects the Greeks to vote again and choose in the polls. Because the bipartisan sent us to the opposition, Mrs. Otero, among other things by the fishing policies that you have contributed. [[Applause]] I absolutely support the fishing policy of the Galician Union, don't think I'm going another way. And you're talking about appointing advisors. If we were at the pace of the Government of Spain, which is of the Socialist Party, there were no deputies here from all the advisers we had; 22 ministers have Sánchez. For what? To do and undo and to insult Galicia, because everyone who is naming goes missing more and more to Galicia. From Pedro Duke, from Teresa Ribera, now with Morán, what else? Every day. And if we also pass on to Garzón, who are his partners, also attacking the primary sector, the rural environment and the meat when he makes those statements. That's not coherence, that's not Galician defense, Mrs. Otero. That is why I say this to you, as a member of the People's Parliamentary Group, that I share with you the Fisheries Spokesman. We've been complaining about IEO's competences for twelve years, we've been complaining for twelve years. But now we have another different debate, we are claiming headquarters in Vigo. IEO headquarters in Vigo. And you don't want to, and you're going to give Santander, Murcia, as their representatives of the Socialist Party live. They insult Galicia once again because, still above, they come to give it a table of fishing science or I don't know what it is, without any budgets; not knowing very well what it consists of. Because the ads and the photos come out wonderful. Look, at the Senate, Mrs Pérez, you can't defend anything because you don't have any senators. That's what happens. We have many German senators who defend Galicia. And I'm telling you one thing, and they have one Member, they have one Member in Congress that the little time you can take to defend fishing is in a debate about whether the role puts Vilagarcia or why you put Villagarcia by a name on a boat. [[Murmurs.]] Because the law of linguistic normalization is important, it is important, but the interests of fishing are also defended by other debates, because they are their obsessions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] They don't care about fishing at all. And so ask me and tell me I don't know if I'm consistent and I'm not consistent with what I'm saying, but I'm going to tell you something. Look, you guys, as I told you before, they're zero consistent with what they say, what they defend here and what they do in Brussels, which are with the Greens, Mrs Pérez. Look, on the grants to fossil fuels the Greens in their programme of the last elections to the European Parliament stated the following: We must now put an end to the subsidies to fossil fuels. And that's what they are. And they're working there in Brussels with the hands of the Greens. That is to be incoherent, very incoherent, and to lose opportunities in Madrid when they have the opportunity to make a government pact and not to name fishing, and when they have the opportunity to hold debates at the Congress of Deputies is to talk about names, ships and not really talk about the fishing problems, as you talked about here, and that you say you reproach the advisor and board of Galicia. More notes I have here: the fishing women, Mrs. Otero, have achieved their first labour rights through the People's Party governments, said the advisor in his previous intervention. And you, with the coefficients, are responding now, thank you, to the heights of the social security quotas in the past year, you're giving an answer, because it has to be that way. I'm very glad, and don't you doubt that the People's Party would do it too. Don't question it, because we'd do the same. And look, I'm not the one who shares or does not behave what you say about the shipowners, I don't insult, and the People's Party doesn't insult, and it doesn't put surnames on the different sectors, on the different people who dedicate themselves to others, which I have many examples here but I don't want to mix. You talked about the shipowners of Burela, about Celeiro who knows better than the shipowners of Vigo, because you know those of the Navy better, ask them what they think about this law too, ask them also what they think, without insulting if they can be too, okay? Because I don't come into the matter of what you say I can agree with you, but I don't have to put any qualifications to anyone, warning, which is what the Socialist Party always does, to put qualifications, because also with the law of the back it puts qualifications to the companies that are on the coast now because working in the sector. Why so many aggravations? Why are so many insults to how Galicia works, how are we here, how do we fish here? Why are they supporting those injuries that come from outside? When Mrs. Quintana is doing here is defending from the social, economic, sustainable point of view what we're always saying and doing so that they know us well. That's why I say we should always be more coherent and sensible with what we say and with the decisions we make in Madrid, because we know the ground well. Therefore, the fishing sector bets on by the People's Party, by the policies of the People's Party, and knows for a while the involvement of Mrs. Quintana. Therefore, for many more years, lords of the Socialist Party and of the Bloc, who are in the opposition. And to finish now, President, tell Mrs. Pérez that one thing is to refresh the memory of each party's work, because I say Ana Miranda at that review presented eight amendments and Carmen Fraga 50, and it was a first revision also of what we're talking about. And, therefore, one thing is to refresh the memory of what each party does so it knows, because we have to balance it too, when we go to the polls we have to make a balance of what we work and what we do. And so one thing is to do that and another is to recreate yourself in the past and try to think and say that other decisions would always be better and live in the past as usual by the Nationalist Block of Wales. Mrs. Quintana, nothing else on my part, and the animal still working on this line. And thank you for the group's work on the Galician Fisheries Council and all the people involved for this review to be beneficial to the Galician fisheries sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close of appearance, sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal I had in this audience was to believe that it is possible to think that the fisheries sector has a future and that is why we are looking for an alliance with the whole of Galician society. The fact is that it is difficult to convince young people in Greece that the sector has a future if the only thing they are talking about is from a negative point of view. And I, I don't like to make comparative aggravatings, but since here some figures have been said and all our data is said to be negative, because I'm going to do some reflection. And some reflection is that in 2005 to 2009, a bipartisan ruling in Galicia and ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid lost 44% of fishing opportunities. From 2009 to 2018, 75% of fishing opportunities have been recovered. The truth is, since 2018, which has ruled the PSOE again in Madrid, there has already been a loss of 15% of fishing opportunities. The truth is, with that data alone, it should be enough to see who's defending a sector and who's defending other things. They say things when they're in opposition and say things when they're in government. Mrs. Pérez, it's false that we lower the possibilities of aid for the generational rebound, it's not true; do not confuse yourself with the proposals that you make every year by defending the assumptions when you ask us to lower those games and make amendments to lower those games. We have to achieve this, from my point of view, if we improve two things: on the one hand, the subject of making a better training and, on the other hand, the subject of improving livingability in our ships. I keep insisting that there are 1,700 people in our schools since 2009, 1,700 people who might be working on ships and who are working in companies on land. Why? Because it's not easy for a 18, 19, 20-year-old to tell him he has to share a cabin with four other people, tell him he has to be fifteen days without seeing land and without having the possibility of communicating with his family and friends, and it's difficult to live in those conditions. So, if we want to improve, the first thing we have is to be able to convince the European Union that the productive units we have also improved, as well as improvements have been made in all companies so that workers have a better way of working, because sailors must also count on the best arrangements to be able to govern. If we took any of the costs, from the production zones, because when you ruled 15% of Galicia's production areas had the worst microbiological classification; since we ruled we went down to 10% of those zones C. But it's better, the A areas have increased by 33% of the best microbiological classification areas, and since we ran we recovered 15 million square metres of unproductive areas; and since 2015 we're increasing the number of people affiliated to the Social Security of the Sea; and is that the average price of fish products has shown its historic peak last year, year of the pandemic; and is that the maricadores have increased their billing in recent years by 40%. I mean, all the data is positive and I'm not saying it, tell it the statistics and tell it the input-output tables that we'll soon publish and that we already have at this point in the Council of the Sea. And that's why I'm very pleased, and I'm very pleased that the export level of marine products has increased by 86% since the year 2009 and today we exceed the €2.4 billion billing. I mean, take into account any of the parameters you have, you get rid of ships: in three years you've been scraping 538 ships, in three years; we're in twelve, 500 ships. The truth is that data when they're measurable are not opinable, and today the reality is that it tells us that we're managing a lot better than you've managed and they're managing in Madrid. I am not going to make an account of any harm that we have experienced since the different ministries against the mar-industry chain, starting with the Ministry of Ecological Transition, the theme of the marrajo I think has already been widely discussed; the theme of the Climate Change Act; the Back Regulation; the report issued on the special plan of the port of Cambados, a report signed by a general director who then has an audio that says exactly the opposite of what is signed in the report. Yes, the law of 2013, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Our 2013 report was presented, elected from Galicia and approved the Plan of Uses of the Port of Cambados, because they gave us the reason. What a document cannot be used and not the answer to that document. [[Applause]] Mrs Otero, the Cambados Port Uses Plan is approved as of 2013, that is, the allegations have been submitted, taken into account and the Cambados Port Use Plan is approved. What can't be sent last week is a signed document where it says, "and the three debuggers when they get granted must leave that location," and then send an audio saying, "the debuggers have to be there and that's the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia." Or one thing or another, the two things together don't fit Mrs. Otero. I'm very sorry, but that's the reality I've signed in a document. In short, the appeal to the Maritime Exploitation Plan, the first time in history since 1991, the first time in history, is referred to, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia gives the basis to the Galician Board and to the confrereries who have appeared on the case, and yet, after such a harsh judgment, they decide to appeal to it in marriage. Mrs. Otero, the truth is that something of rage does have us; that's very difficult, we don't know where else they're going to attack us. The Spanish Institute of Oceanography: Mrs. Otero, the problem is not the competences of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, the problem is knowing that there is the Spanish Institute of Oceanography. The Spanish Oceanography Institute must be an advisory body of the Government of the State to defend the interests of the Spanish fishing fleet in all international bodies. And therefore that body must be a priority for the Government of Spain if the Government of Spain wants to give priority to the fisheries sector. From Galicia we always defended the need to strengthen the institute, the need to strengthen it, and we also offer ourselves to put money if it was necessary for that institute to work well. What makes no sense is to say that the process of decentralization is going to start, then the process will be skipped through the air, and to say that they decentralized by fishing in Santander because the chief of fisheries is there, and aquaculture in Murcia because the chief of aquaculture is in Murcia. That's not decentralization, that's to play with people, and the only thing that makes it noise among researchers, it doesn't give the researchers peace of mind, and what we're trying to do is that exactly researchers can develop their work and advise those who have to take the management measures so we don't get it wrong to take the management measures. In short, I was here today to defend the dictate that was drawn up at the Galego Fisheries Council, to defend the work that all those people who bothered to study, to analyze, to value, in which each one was able to lose part of his to win the whole of the Galician fishing, to tell him that they have from then on the tendon hand of the Government of Galicia. And before the question that Mrs. Pérez asked me of whether I believe Mr. Núñez Feijóo and Mr. Tellado will defend the interests of Galicia, he said: there was no doubt in Galicia that we would not have better defenders in the Senate than Mr. Núñez and Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] That's how they come to believe it, and works... all the data from Galicia's economy and all the points of view you want to play for Galicia that way they believe it. They're management measures, they're always actions done thinking best for Galicia and so we're going to keep working. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u38	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the third point of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the coverage of the casualties of the teaching staff No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u39	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. And also start that appearance in my case by showing our joy shared by all of us today to count among us with Mr. Pedro Puy; to be able to talk to him and check that he has breaks in that recovery, and it is always a joy to count sincerely on him, with that human and political quality that characterizes him and that we all recognize him. But even there's joy, today's congratulations, this seems like a revoke, a feast, full of farewells, with applause, and we almost appreciate taking some air and returning to normal, to a full ordinary and affairs that deal with us, about measures and management, as said the sea councillor, who mark the Greek policy. And I was saying that little congratulations, little hope because, despite all these changes, people are the same, the model is the same and here we have one more example. And I didn't want to start being aggravating, but, taking into account the words, the intervention of the Education Counsellor himself a month ago in this Parliament about this problem, this demand, because there is also little hope and "suffering" — in the quotes — I say this "new" — as Mr Rueda's step — we see that they are the same people who are in front of the councils, the same model, therefore, in so many areas but also in education, despite what the Councillor of the Sea said now, because there is little to celebrate. And this could be, therefore — as in so many initiatives when we talk about education or health or social policy — a motion — we say or say — spoiler, i.e. I don't know the debate, but if we unfortunately know what the outcome of the vote will be. It's never recommended to start an intervention or start a story talking about what the result will be and make spoiler, but maybe so — putting us in the worst — if you give some kind of script rotation and we attend some kind of surprise. Because it wouldn't be the luck of this motion that defends the proponent group, the Socialist Party, but this is a demand that would be lucky for the educational community, for the teaching staff of the educational centres, who are both suffering in a course that has not yet ended up in the student group and, ultimately, for a stronger public education system. But, as we said, we do not usually fail when we defend any initiative in defense of public education, to avoid urging the Union to stop the cuts, to strengthen, as we say, this public education in Greece and to listen, also to those who listen to the demands of professionals and professionals, something as simple and free as that, to listen to. And also, why not, this motion is going to listen and learn from the experience that has brought us closer to the pandemic generated by the coward. So let's see if we have any final money order, even if we were saying, with little hope, after hearing the arguments of the education advisor a month ago. Because at this political wedding feast we also had to delay debates, as important matters as those that are suffering at educational centers all these months. And also to say that, over the last few hours reviewing the presence of the councilman himself, one is amazed at that ability — which is a skill that he has also recently appointed Senator and former President of the Galician Council, Mr. Feijóo, and that he shares it with Mr. Román Rodríguez — that is to say in the same speech — he passed in the debate of the interpellation — one thing and, within a few minutes, to say the opposite without changing himself, without going through. So we are going to contextualize, as time has passed a little more than we would like to discuss this motion, to refresh a little bit what was the situation we were moving to this Parliament. We recorded the demand and the complaint that the professionals, the teachers, the teachers of the teaching centres, the trade unions, the ANPAs, who began to warn at the beginning of December that the Board of Education, the Board of Directors, ceased to cover all those lower teachers less than 10 days. And he also stopped making calls to cover these casualties every day, they were made from Monday to Friday until the end of November, and doing it only two days a week. As we told you, the Education Adviser surprisingly and sadly, the Education Council took this decision after the festive bridges, when we were about to celebrate Christmas and the arrival of the omicron, in the middle of the sixth wave, with the curve of completely shot contagion. At first, the council denied — despite the mobilization of teachers and teachers — that this decision had been taken. If it is true something that the councillor said: that in January they had to go back and call again every day and cover the casualties, but they did it by the chaotic and disastrous situation precisely caused by the decision taken by the Education Council—we insisted—in the middle of the sixth wave of this health crisis. They had to call because they stayed in centers with swing classes for days and days, and even weeks. And he spoke before the explanations and arguments that in the 15 minutes that last the intervention, the time he had in that inquiry the counselor, because in those arguments that say one thing and at the same time say absolutely to another. I begin by appealing to the necessary prudence, that this decision is made because we are in a situation — I say — which is already normal. So, we asked the councilman in December, in January, in February... when the teachers' casualties were not already covered for less than 10 days, at 15 days, were we in a normal situation? What attracts attention is that measuring rod that has this council. When it comes to own resources and making decisions, we appeal to normality, to which we must move forward, to which we all want to move forward. But when it comes to putting the responsibilities to the centers, families, on the other hand, we remember — and we reminded him — that we are the last community that has already entered the spring, takes out the masks abroad in the courtyards of the schools, practically coincided with the removal of masks inside the classrooms themselves; when the different autonomous communities have been taking weeks and weeks with the mask removed abroad. We said we respected the decisions of the Board, but, of course, that rod of measurement that shrinks or stretchs according to who has to make the decisions and does not respond to scientific or health stimuli, according to a little of the occurrences like this type, or whether we have to take the opposite or not to the central government. Of course, it turns out that it is at least absolutely retold to speak of normality, to ask for caution for other things, to accuse of lying to the educational community, and then say no, that we are now in normality, as if the pandemic did not exist and that a system that has been operating for many years as the cheapest because we are not talking about the real statistics data from when it is that low school system, by the way, how many teachers do we currently have and how many students. Here we make makeup and grab the data according to our convenience. The councillor — we insist — defends that in the middle of a wave of cowardice, Omicron, if he decided not to call — except for those days he had to go back — daily and cover the lower teachers, leaving classes empty in a very complicated situation many centres, denying and accusing the unions — we say — and the teachers themselves. And the truth is we're in the final line of a course, but from a course that's up to very little, in many still now, there's still a course that's marked by the decisions of the pandemic, its consequences and the enormous difficulties that the educational community has suffered. We said, we have to recognize the things that worked well and did well, and one of them was the coverage of the system of casualties and the daily call. I don't know how we're going, and the cockroach's gone a little bit. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u40	I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u41	Then yell because as they speak so loudly because they cannot hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u42	Yeah, he's right. There's a lot of murmuring.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u43	That's why we said there are things that don't change. Well, we said that there were things that worked well and the calling system to cover the lower teachers is something that was done well, but that they were loaded with blows and feathers at the end of November. And we said it wasn't all good decisions: regardless of the reinforcement teacher, making it match and not covering the casualties in addition to the completion of the ARCO program for support and reinforcement of skills and guidance, despite the fact that it was also a demand of the educational community at difficult times, it wasn't a good decision either. And so, without going further, and after the debate of the inquiry, some centers told that after the Holy Week, as there was another peak and another replay of the contagion when it was no longer mandatory to use the masks inside, they are so discouraged by this decision of the Education Council that many girls and children were recommended to put back the masks after the Holy Week in some classroom centers. Because they know that, as the teacher or teacher falls down, they can be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 days, and up to two weeks, without a teacher; they have to act in this way by making decisions and improvising their own centers because they know they are -- we insist -- absolutely unattended. We ask for common sense. The pandemic showed that this control of the ratios, the possibility of breaking down, the coverage of the teachers' discharges with agility had positive results. We learn from the experience of living, be conscious and prudent because in no way is certain that this pandemic, or any other crisis, whips basic and essential services as is the case with education. They seek the reasonable, common sense, because the casualties — as we said — diseases, accidents occur — as we reminded the counsellor — Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and any day of the week. And to finish, they don't use those very nice words of gratitude for the effort that in Galicia because the management of the pandemic in the educational field was better than in other communities, because, if that happened, it was thanks to the effort of those teachers precisely, those teachers that these months are doing — as we said in the interpellation — fit into bubbles by the decision of the Galician Board of Strikes and Pens to stop covering the lower teachers. For our part, for now nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u45	Thank you, President. I don't know if it's about a spoiler or not, but the truth is, while I was preparing this intervention, I think there were two options to bring us up to this point. And the first of these options was to come here and back up to that loop of the People's Party on casualties, a loop we have unfortunately known in this Parliament for the occasions since the BNG we have brought here the issue of the coverage of casualties, but also for the interpellation that has resulted in this initiative. And we thought that at this point we had to go back to the concrete wall, go back to the loop, because it didn't make much sense; firstly, because we understood that nothing will clarify absolutely for whoever is following us, but also because we understood that the educational community, after the effort that has just done all these years, because it deserved something else. So on day 5 ends the school course and I believe that this initiative, Mrs. Otero, and by inciting the spoiler, will not change the popular party's bass policy, but I do think it has a virtuality that is not smaller, given the time we're in, and is that it will allow us to make an assessment with data and dates of what was the reality of the Popular Party bass coverage along this course. With data and dates that demonstrate only the tons of propaganda and manipulation that the People's Party has come to implement throughout this course; at the time — yes — they are filled with their mouths speaking, I suppose, of recognition to the professor. And, of course, to us the recognition and the applause of the professor -- we have said it on several occasions here -- because it seems fantastic to us. But what we have here today on the table is something much more important than that; what we have on the table today is talking about student rights, talking about teachers' rights and talking about everything about respect for public education. And therefore, as where there are papers and where there are data, there are beards, we here are bringing in to evaluate -- to put on the white table about black -- which was the role of the Galician Board of Auditors in terms of bass coverage, is going to be what the statistical report of the Education Council is telling us, which is telling us the Galician Official Journal itself, which gives us the data of the Board of Auditors and what the hemerotheque tells us that any neighboring child can consult. And let's do it with the structure of the course itself: beginning of the course, September of course 2021-2022, context of incidence of the absolutely shot pandemic, what is the first step taken by the Government of the People's Party? DOG, 27 August, 127 less children and primary units. The whole country with class unification. And in the face of this situation, what does the People's Party so grossly proclaim in this same Parliament? A reinforcement of 1,500 more teachers in public education. Of course, then the reality of the centers was different. And since the lie has short legs, because we have to see how, in budgets, what is demonstrated?, what is the fact that it is evidenced?, data from Galician Union itself: 868 teachers less than regarding the previous course. And not only that, but it also introduced us to a path of cuts that certainly culminated in that 2019-2020 course and that involved not only a cut of 2,500 teachers in a decade. [[Applause]] You, gentlemen of the People's Party, charged 250 teachers every year for a decade, and that's not something I say, that's not something BNG says, that's something that comes white about black in the report of the Board of Auditors. And someone might think: well, with this paper, with the reality that we have in public education, because there will be a reinforcement program, so let's say, efficiently, that brings something new. And it certainly was, because if of something you can assume the Education Council is creative, and you announce us, stop the rotations, bombo and plate, the T Recovery Program. The shock plan will affect 1,000 centres, 50,000 students, 1,250 reinforcement teachers, 13 million euros of budget for the same exactly as the previous year: ARCO programme and PROA programme. Funded by the European Union, implemented throughout the state, and in which the Galician Union — despite having, by the way, 4,000 teacher signatures asking for their continuity — has not invested any more. And, of course, with this situation we could think, in addition to what the program was, what was the procedure of calling on that coverage by the Board of Galicia? First call... I announced in September, that's right. First call, mid-October. It's beginning to advance in calls in mid-November. And the 21st of December, and what does the Government do? Almost 400 teachers in the street. The propaganda was great, but the reality of the centers was what it was. And with this we arrive in November. And, of course, here is the reality of the coverage of casualties, after having 900 teachers with the program Recover-T, ARCO and PROA in extinction, someone might think, but is the government going to be effective in covering the casualties? Well, education announces November 29th that it will cease to cover the casualties of less than 15 days. So much so that we had to be on the sixth wave of the pandemic, that we had come from very hard courses, from exhausted teachers; the first week of December we have on the consulting portal 250 unfilled vacancies: 136 of Primary and 104 of Secondary. And what does the Education Advisor say with this picture? There's no problem in this sense, and if there's any, it's a matter of time. This is like what none of this is true here except for some things. So we moved around on Christmas holidays and with these precedents, with this reality, there's nothing else left in the Union, as I pointed out earlier, to collect reels and assume that the situation of unteachable and uncovered education centres was absolutely impossible. Newly pumpkin and dish. And, if you do, the board announces it'll cover the casualties. I mean, he's advertising in the media that he's going to fulfill his obligation, obviously showing that there was a problem. Well, it only took him four weeks. This announcement is made on January 10th, February 22nd, four weeks later, what does Junta confirm? They stop covering a few days' casualties and they'll stop calling every day and just call 2 days a week. Of course, this causes absolute chaos in the centers, which continued to have needs for teachers, who still had, with the shortage of guard teachers, to call, to leave classes unattended and hang down in the application of the board. And what does Joina do? Solve this problem? Send teachers to the centers? No, no, no, no. What the Education Council does is delete the downgrades of the application. At 12 noon on March 15, there were 41 vacancies in the body of teachers, what do you do in Junta? Adjudicate from those 41, 13; 15 leave pendants; and 13 pendants. In High School 26 vacancies, 5 pendants and 11 disappear three hours later. And, therefore, the dog is dead, the rage is over. We've removed the downsides of the application and the reality of the centers disappears exactly as Tippex disappears at the downsides of the board application. And with that picture we reach the end of the course and see what happens to the PROA program. And I think this is something worthy of mention, because it was the council itself who is saying that between June 6 and 22, after moving, as you well know, the extraordinary tests of September, that these dates will be dedicated to the preparation and realization of extraordinary tests, support activities, reinforcement and expansion. And what does the board do to ensure that this can be done? All right, just on that same date, the teacher who has the support, the reinforcement and the expansion is charged. This is the panorama, gentlemen of the People's Party, which is in the data of the council itself, in the application, which is in the Official Journal of Galicia, which is in the hemerotheca and which I believe that, if something has at this point, they can show what were rivers of lies, propaganda and manipulation by the Education Council throughout this course. Lies, propaganda and manipulation that were then evidenced as much as they denied it and are now evidenced. And lies, propaganda and manipulation to which the educational community, of which the public education of this country is saying it's completely fed up. And that's why we have no doubt that they exercise and want for themselves a quality public education, a future public education, demand an Education Councillor who uses the resources of the Greeks and the Greeks to make them available to the Greeks and the Greeks, to make them available to public education and not to the People's Party. And, therefore, from BNG we understand that this is a reality that is part of the past and that public education in Greece has to look at this future and it's going to look into the future. For our own sake, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that I had hoped in this debate of this motion that I had answered a question that the adviser had asked on the day of the inquiry: that you — and I see that you have not been able — had an autonomous community that had done the management of casualties better than Galicia does. And from what I've just observed, they haven't been able to find a model they'd like to look at. And on the contrary, which is what we found here, because lies, propaganda and manipulation, Mr. Lourenzo, are what you've used to us, because they only manipulate the reality of things. Look, Galicia has an exemplary model of coverage for the lower education staff, and so I'm seeing, the best in Spain, because you weren't able to transfer another model. Look, we are the community of Spain — and this goes to the matraca of the cuts that are tired of repeating and know that they lie and lie on purpose — we are the community of Spain that most teachers have about their number of students. Let's see if we learn how to do the accounts at once. Because it's very good, Mr. Lourenzo, to come here with teacher data, but you have to put the student data on it. If we compare it to the number of existing students, of course we are Spain's number one. So that lie that I tell every day about the cuts, I think you believe it, the two parliamentary groups of this House, because the rest of society won't believe it, because it's not true. Look, the German education counts on the human resources it needs at every moment and adapts as it adapted to each situation as the pandemic was. And in addition, the pandemic system was strengthened, among other measures during this course 2021-2022, which involved an extra investment of 140 million euros. An extra investment that paid him exclusively to the Galician Union, in which the State did not contribute a single penny. And that extra investment required the hiring of 2,095 teachers more than before the pandemic, despite having 6,000 students less. And, in view of this extraordinary effort by the Greeks and the Government of Greece, the Government of the State has disagreed of the education system by nullifying, ladies and gentlemen, the order of aid from the funds covered, thereby cutting EUR 90 million to the education system of Greece. So, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block defend typical initiatives, I think of an already desperate opposition, because you come here to simulate that you care about the education system by proposing initiatives on issues that already work well; so we just saw, it's Spain's best model because you didn't provide any other. And it's worth remembering that the education system, since they talk so much about the teacher, has 30,000 professionals and they're adjusted to the real demands of our system. A staff table that not only respects the post catalogue set in 2007 by the bipartite and signed by the unions, but exceeds those same forecasts set by that agreement when there were many more students at that time. So Junta is working seriously and is making an important effort for that premise of meeting the real needs. And of course, we have to take into account the factors of demography, the flexibility of health measures, which you seem to use when they are appropriate and when they are not suitable, and also the lack of specific resources, as these 90 million euros of cuts can be. And indeed, that prevents us from keeping exactly the same increase as in the past course, Mr Lourenzo, that we remember that it was exceptional and atypical, we all know. As for the low-income model, it's working with a broad consensus between the educational community and also between teachers. A low coverage that counts with prestige, counts with prestige and, above all, as we all know and here it is said, covers the low two days a week: Tuesdays and Fridays, which does not happen in other autonomous communities. And they cover the obviously more than ten-day casualties, but they also cover the day-to-day dropouts of the unitary schools or other services such as the caregiver or kitchen staff that have no strength in the system. So, obviously we're talking about a rule that's not unmovable, because that's how it's believed when it's covered every day. So, with the arrival of the 2020-2021 course, there was an exceptional situation which led to exceptional measures of strengthening teachers, of doubles, all the measures that we are discussing here so much. As for the payroll coverage, this model was strengthened by making daily calls. And I want to remind all gentlemen here that these daily calls are exceptional in the whole state, they are exceptional. And you intend with a measure that does not apply anywhere and that is the exceptional one, that you continue to apply it at times when the pandemic situation is different. And it was done in such a way, daily calls especially at those moments to cover up an unknown health situation. And obviously, this 2021-2022 course has changed a lot of things, it's made protocols more flexible, and in this way it's also covered the lows in times of greater incidence. And they covered themselves in the first months of the course, Mrs. Otero, and also covered themselves in January and February, too. The Counselor has already answered it, but you keep insisting here that in January and February they haven't covered, and you keep denying it. But in any case, on Holy Week, they also covered themselves around the holidays because there was a need and all those casualties were covered. Therefore, the board is acting seriously, acting quickly, ensuring the quality and functioning of the education system. And today the situation of the pandemic has changed as well. If the Central Government itself has gradually adopted measures towards normality. Like, for example, staff with mild cave symptoms had to work. And, of course, this situation significantly reduces temporary incapacity in the education system as well. Or as an example also changes the mandatory use of masks. In any case, we're in a normal situation, we're going back to the routine management of casualties, and there's actually a general consensus from the pedagogical point of view, and it's a consensus that students are better served with teachers from the center themselves than with an external teacher to cover these low days. Therefore, because it lacks time to connect to the dynamics and rhythm of the programming that has already started the course itself. That's why centers, depending on their size, already have reinforcement staff to cover this type of incidences below ten days. And you know this perfectly well, but you come here to simulate if something that works well we've brought to society that is a real disaster in view of the exhibitions that the two members of the opposition have made here today in this House. Look, you come here to ask for the opposite of what they did when they were ruling in Galicia, and the opposite of what they do there where they rule today, Mrs. Otero. So I think... I insist that you come, instead of worrying about the education system, you worry about using it to criticize it. Because, if you really care about the education system, you should claim, as the Galician Union has done, the overcosts of the dispersal that represent the cost of the school transport education system, the school dining rooms, the dispersal of the centres; that is 354.6 million euros that are facing Galicia each year to support the education system. But you on this subject are not heard at all. How they shut up and swallowed up with a frightening nature when at the beginning of the first Pandemic the Government of the State changed the financing criteria of the European funds and made us 36.3 million euros with the amazing complicit silence of the Nationalist Block Galego. This very silence of the Galego Nationalist Block, see that they protested to all trade unions, except one, very well known by the Galician Nationalist Block, when in the course 2021-2022 it was annulled and the order of funds was not summoned that the previous course was endowed with 90 million euros. And there they protested all the unions, except one, a very Greek one, and besides that you know a lot. [[Applause]] They are therefore so worried about the education system that they claim to compensate for the cost of inflation of the socialist government that represents for the education system 23 million euros. But of this, of course, we haven't heard anything from them. Look, we're proud of the education system, we're proud of the work you're doing, we count on Spain's best teacher-student ratio, along with Extremadura, where 70% of the primary and childhood classes in this autonomous community have 20 students, they have less than 20 students, and 30% have less than 10 students. I think it's a fact of what we have to be proud of, because in the processing of the Celá Law you have rejected amendments that were intended to improve the ratio and come here saying exactly the opposite. So an interim rate as in no autonomous community, which is the best that Galicia has. So, I think it's good to look for issues of coming here constantly questioning the education system when Galicia has an educational system, which, in fact, there are always things to improve, we agree and we're willing to agree with consensuals, but that's why you come here with a speech on a matter that works well in the sphere of every state, and that comes with such a catastrophic speech, of course, that we can't accept it. Nothing else, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u48	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Motion author group, Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u49	Since I adopted a cinematographic expression that has to do with the films and the series, like the spoiler's, to anticipate what the outcome of the debate would be, and unfortunately I also imagine that of the vote, and talking about series and listening to how the education voice of the People's Party on Education and Ranking Data speaks, I'm also reminded of a series that is on a well-known platform called Makeup Artists. They probably haven't seen it, even if it's just because it appears in the catalogue, as it reminds me very much - so they say yes - the People's Party. Do you want me to talk to you about rankings of autonomous education communities? We can talk about housing or something that is very current today, the ranking of autonomous communities for dependent investment, which places Galicia and today again, precisely, at the state queue. In the year with more funds transfer, one year of dependency clippings; you should fall down the face of shame. And you're talking about the mackerel of the cuts, because there's the rakings, and you're talking about this sad thing. He said they're make-up artists because they're defending a 15-year-old system, in addition to being of excellence, of bass coverage, when the number of teachers, say what you say, this year is lower; this 2022, the number of teachers who were students when the former president of the Galician board arrived already in power. They make the reality around the number of teachers, they don't explain why the budgets in this course 2022-2023 include this cut of 900 teachers. The data deny that speech of favor, what is the weight of the investment in education on the total expenditure of the Union?, which does not reach 21% this year, when the senator's arrival today, Mr. Feijóo, former president of the Council of Galicia, exceeded 25%. They repeat announcements -- I insist -- misleading about new teachers, when they have to cover retirements, but the number of teachers, the evolution of the stories there is. This decade: reduction of teachers in public education and greater transfer of resources to concerted and private education. That's his brand, and he speaks -- I insist -- a 2007 catalogue without charging himself, without taking into account what we've lived, talking about normality, as if the pandemic didn't exist, and without changing itself. And at the same time we speak of prudence, tenderness and strength. It's just that you don't understand. And I ask you, you were talking about questions, the question was for the councillor to answer, we present this motion today, and we ask: what benefits do you have for the student, for the public education of Greek who leave up to two weeks full classes and full courses without covering the casualties of teachers and teachers? What benefit does it have for the student? Because you can't answer. Do you think they're giving these students a quality response and education that they've seen all these months without a teacher and without a teacher? Do you consider that you are responding to these centres that, in addition to having to deal with this problem all these months and this course that has not yet ended by the non-covering of casualties, which give them discharge and the Education Council systematically deletes them, who have to be entering the system to see whether or not they have been deleted? Do you think they're giving them a quality service, that they're responding, that they're thanking that effort, that job? In a course, in addition to what they are warning from the centers of the different caustic problems of the exponential increase of students with specific and special needs and which, despite this, insist on cuts, not only on the downsides, on cuts in the orientation departments. And listen -- as I told you before -- because it's absolutely free; listen, talk to the centers, to the educational community, plan the next course in response to the new reality and, please, with a little more sensitivity. We're at the right time for you to hear and listen. We said the demands such as the coverage of the casualties, the reinforcement of the orientation departments, the reduction of the ratios where needed. But, instead of listening to and responding to this lack of effective policies, they show that absolute disgust. That must be the freedom which they defend in the People's Party, which proclaims this freedom to Mrs Ayuso, who advocates by the parties of the taverns, gangs and streetmen; that freedom which he also assumed and repeated, applauded with euphoria Mr Feijóo; the freedom understood as progressive, the progressive dismantling of the public in favour of the private sector?; freedom not to promote equality, but to have closed 138 public schools in these years?; freedom to reduce education budget by 113 million euros?; freedom to eliminate the freeness of school books?; freedom to eliminate the subject of Geography and History of Galicia? That's the freedom they defend, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a real drama that remains for us, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the dynamization of reading An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u51	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. "What you put Galicia this week on the map didn't come to a race, it went on the last boat." With these words the illustrator Kiko da Silva was honored by the recently deceased Sunday Villar, the writer vigue who has forever silenced the words of Detective Leo Caldas to let pass to that overwhelming silence that so many Welsh and Welsh we feel these days. [[Applause]] In the name of the BNG all the honour for the memory of Sunday Villar, all the gratitude for his creative work in the history of Welsh literature, all the affection for his, for his publishing house, for the editorial vigue Galaxy, and for the entire reader community that transcended with him the literary spaces of Vigo and the surroundings. [[Applause]] Domingo Villar is already immortal in the memory of our land, placing Galicia on the map of literary cultures without frontiers from the Greek that can now be read, thanks to that magnificent tool that is translation, in Spanish, in German, in Italian, in Swedish and in French. Always from the English and always without borders. Because no, Mr. Rueda, absent president, lords of the People's Party, for the vast majority of Galician society, is not the demerit king who puts Galicia on the map, the cheating and fleeing king, neither exiled, as some unqualified journalist, lacking the honour of the memory of the exiles of the Frankish dictatorship and also of his families. The defense of the People's Party of the shameful and splendourous spectacle that the Spanish monarchy continues to represent by choosing Sanxenxo these past days as stage, is the proof of the defense of an outdated, anti-democratic and discriminatory model that makes it clear that we are not all equal before the law. There the People's Party once again as an admiral of the past most ranciful, in front of the BNG always looking in front of the eyes of the future. Who put Galicia literally on the map, we know it was Sunday Fontán already at the beginning of the 19th century with work, dedication, talent and an unprovoked effort of 17 years. Whoever had already put Galicia and our language on the map of European cultural nations was already the finders at the end of the 12th century. Whoever put Galicia on the map of all the vanguards was Rosalía de Castro these days, precisely translated into a new language that is the Guarani. Who has put Galician morale, Galician ethics on the map of creative diversity and linguistic plurality are all the writers and writers who have been recognized, for example, with the national awards, highlighting — I want to make a fincapé in this — the literature of Galicia in all, absolutely in each and every of the prime genres, a truly unique case in the European literary landscape which, of course, in the BNG fills us with pride. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party, our writers and writers put Galicia on the map of the words they think, feel and dialogue free, honest, democratic, without discrimination or sectarianism and always on an equal footing, the same path that they want to travel in the BNG, in this map of future alternative is where we want to put ourselves in the BNG. We also know that for this we need to look at the vimbies of the present, and in the interpellation of the previous plenary we present to the advisor a catalogue of uncertainties that mirror the delicate, weak and vulnerable situation that reaches the sector of the book. Investments contracted, budgets by the unexecuted consultancy, decrease in the progressive number of publications in English, lack of social impulse to the purchase of literature in German, insufficient support to the public library network, absence of a strategy of internationalization, lack of visibility in libraries, minimal presence in the media, particularly those of public ownership or progressive loss of language competition in Greek. Uncertainties that, of course, we argue according to official data, but that the counsellor did not rebate, except with usual messianic evasives, lack of self-criticism and excess of adanism. We are the first in everything, though all the data indicate otherwise, because the data that are worth ours, which we only know, is the lettuce of this Culture Council. I can tell you that if you read more now than before, you literally said the counselor; you just failed to say and point, there's nothing else to talk about. What is really serious to us is that the adviser obviously did not respond to the key, to the millionth, at the heart of our interpellation: when will the Government of the People's Party comply with the Greek society by committing itself to the elaboration, to the adoption in consensus, of course, with the sector and social representatives of a plan to dynamize reading? You chose, in the absence of answers, Mr. Counsellor, to accuse us of pessimistics and fearsomes, when you know perfectly well that the only voice we brought here was the voice of the German book sector, which we channeled from the responsibility that corresponds to us as representatives of the people and as leader force of the opposition. Don't answer to the BNG by the Government of Galician Union is not to respond to society, as it often does, and that's why we're going to give it these minutes, the word, the agents, the different agents of the book sector to leave a direct and explicit record in this House of some of those communiqués that have been issued in recent times and that give good proof of the Board's disregard for their demands. Only four references — they could be many more, but time is limited. We want to refer to a first draft communiqué that at the beginning of the pandemic, at the end of March 2020, the Galaga Association of Editors, the Association of Writers and Writers in Galicia and the Federation of Bookstores issued, setting out the following demands — even today, two years later, not met —: to increase by 50% the allocation for the purchase of books in English in public libraries; to prepare a special campaign to promote reading that integrates the whole society; to a cross-sectional promotion plan; to design a genuine plan for the empowerment of the book in and outside the country with special attention in those strategies that promote and enhance its internationalization; and to redirect the economic allocations planned for Xacobeo to allocate more resources to publishing, to the work of writers and writers and to libraries as a focus of representation and recognition of literature and Greek culture. A second communiqué was issued this year in 2022, in March, the Galaga Editors' Association. A communiqué that recognized the limit, absolutely limited, in response to Galician Union's neglect year after year in organizing the international fairs of the book. Less propaganda and more professional management is what they demanded. Galicia is an unusual case with respect to any other editorial guild in the state and even foreign. We demand that we be able to manage a stand which is and which must be strictly professional. And in view of that, we met year after year and without notice that the Galician Union perpetuates a system of participation that is not being useful for the professional objectives of our publishers and, therefore, for the internationalization of the Greek book. Recently, in the same month of May 2022, following the publication of the new call for help in translation, the Galician Association of Translation and Interpretation Professionals is obliged to issue a strong and new communiqué. This association says it rejects once again the approach and content of the Order of Aids to the translation of the Galician Union, which is, in our view, inconsistent with the reality of the profession and the sector, and which did not take into account most of the requests of the entities in the field. We again include extra-literary and dubious criteria; and we believe that the Administration has no interest in meeting the real needs of the sector or in setting clear targets for such aid, so we value the possibility of no longer collaborating with the Administration in this area. It doesn't make Galician Union more than crashing away from them the collectives who work around the Greek book. And finally, in this month of May too, a few small, very brief lines of intervention by representatives of the Galaga Association of Editors, the Federation of Libraries and the Association of Writers and Writers in Galaga in the delivery of the New Sheet Awards: "From institutional cordiality, we ask the Government of Unity, who has the statutory competences in book management, to be taken into account. We call for honest dialogue and we call for an administration to listen to the sector. The creators and creators need direct help to create and the essential internationalization or internal and external projection of the Greek book. International fairs are something more than simple stands of institutional representation. We need a reader plan, always pending; it's time to be taken seriously by those responsible for the Greek book reading and our language. We need a reading plan for the Greek book as a strategic sector that is, one of the pillars on which to build a Greek society that takes place in all its rights." We could continue with many more samples unfortunately, but time doesn't allow it. In any case, for BNG it's time, it's a lot of time to act positively in favour of the book and in favor of reading in English. This is our intention always, and that is why we come to this motion with alternative proposals that are based on three pillars: The first one, to promote a social pact by reading which articulates a cross-sectional plan to promote reading, is the mandate of the Law of the Book and of the Reading of Galicia. Secondly, implement an economic boost plan for the book sector to double the current investment of the budgets of the Union at the end of this legislation. And thirdly, to create the Rosaly Institute of Castro to design the international dissemination and projection of the Greek language, literature and culture in all its expressions abroad. We trust, of course, in your positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, you will all agree on the value of a book as a vehicle of communication, a vehicle of wisdom, a vehicle of learning, being the reading able to develop that imagination, reflection, critical thinking, deductive capacity, sensitivity and even creativity. It is a shame to have to hear messages full of -- Mrs. Complaints said -- uncertainties launched in this Parliamentary House probably to disturb the good vibrations that can transmit a good book. The motion that you present today is centered on three points that I will go through with data, with reasons and arguments from the German Government's policy on the dynamization of reading, language, literature and Greek culture. Madam Complainants, support for the Greek book is not only verbalized as you want, but must, moreover, be supported by positive policies for the sector and economic parties that promote it. Look, the latest indicators show that we are the community with more libraries per inhabitant compared to the rest of autonomous communities, about 15 libraries per 100,000 inhabitants. More and more books are being edited in Galicia, data reflect a positive percentage increase that demonstrates the gradual recovery of the publishing sector. Behind this data is the undeniable effort of the sector combined with the policies of support by the Autonomic Administration. But the strategy of the Galician Union for the dynamization of reading not only focuses on supporting the book, it necessarily involves a librarian policy that understands the current role of these centres as living, dynamic and socializing spaces. Of course, special attention to education as a germ in future reading habits. As for the second point, you ask for a percentage increase; it's probably because you don't know about the economic stakes aimed at boosting the book sector. Look, in a continuous and systematic process of supporting the Welsh book sector, within the framework of Galician Book and Reading Law, and the Library Law, Mrs. Queixas — it is curious that they do not name it, this last law, the Library Law, probably because it was not drawn up by the Galego Nationalist Block — a dual investment of more than 2 million euros to affect particularly relevant areas of action that I would like to mention. Look, I support the edition of the book, a line of aids created in 2021 and maintained in this year 2022, which subsidizes the edition and marketing of the book with 200,000 euros. I support the marketing through the book fairs in Galicia, which this year reaches 13 localities by means of a collaboration agreement with the Galician Books Federation with EUR 120,000. I support the purchase of books in public libraries; the German Government has improved the provision of new editorials in English on the Galician Library Network with an annual call that the libraries of the network manage directly with publishing companies, with an amount of 200,000 euros. In addition, it contributes to the acquisition of new public libraries collections and funds that will increase to EUR 550,000 this year. In the 5 central territorial libraries, and the Galician Library, their collections are updated annually with €250,000. I support the dynamization of reading from public libraries with the Ler Account dynamization program Much for the network libraries, 200,000 euros; and for the autonomic management libraries, 150,000 euros. Another new line: support for literary creation in Greek. With literary reaction by convening contests, awards and recognitions to creativity in different genres, such as poetry, narrative or essay. For example, economic support for the new leaves prizes of the Galician Book. Another new line, Mrs. Complaints: support for literary tradition. The active policy of promoting the production of direct and inverse translations, always in collaboration with the Italian publishing sector and the outside editors who are encouraged to obtain that Greek public funding. Look, between 2012 and 2021, the 10 convenings of the Galician Union mobilized about 2 million euros in aid. 686 works were translated, of which 467 were direct translations and 219 were inverse translations. See, the result of the last call made in the year 2021-2022 suggested a very significant increase in the works translated and the publishers benefiting, EUR 200,000. Works translated in 2016, 60; and is currently in 132. Another line is support for grammatical entities in the German book sector, which is to help the main entities in the book sector with specific annual conventions that strengthen their association activity. The Galaga Association of Writers in Language, the Galaga Association of Editors, the Association of Professionals of Illustration; ultimately, contributions by the Government of Galicia. Let us also not forget the external projection and internationalization of the Greek book. His projection abroad and the internationalization of the book by means of, on the one hand, a line of aids for the participation of these creators in cultural programming outside Galicia; and on the other hand, the presence of the book in the international fairs of the book. And we must not forget, of course, the Good Culture 2021. An initiative to promote cultural demand which had an important impact on the Greek book trade in 2021 and which, of course, was one of the main beneficiaries of this bond and was subject to an injection of more than 2 million euros in the Greek cultural sectors. On the third point, Mrs. Complaints. The Galego Studies Center Network offers the possibility of studying Galician language and culture at universities in America and Europe, which contributes to the spread of Greek abroad, linguistic research from very diverse perspectives, and also to the prestige of language among its own speakers by observing the interest and recognition it possesses outside the administrative borders of Galicia. The data suggest that the teaching of Greek reaches 17 countries, 35 universities, of which 26 are international and 9 national. Nearly — and the data speak for themselves — students receive classes in foreign countries and 1,500 in other areas of Spain. Finally, the international dissemination and projection of foreign language, literature and culture, as you request at the third point. And most importantly, Mrs. Complaints: we have the Galician Council of Culture, the highest cultural institution in our autonomous community, with a status range and which has among its functions to promote our language and culture within and outside Galicia. This institution is the only one in Spain and it is very embedded in the institutional functioning, and this parliamentary group deserves all our recognition for its great work in promoting our culture and our language within and outside our borders. I hope that recognition is also made by your group, the Galician Nationalist Block. And it's over, Mr. President, by presenting a replacement amendment and thus maintaining the lines of work that, from the framework of the Law of the Book and the Reading of Galicia, boost the ecosystem of the book of Galicia, which have a positive impact on its commercial dynamization and its visibility in Galicia and outside the community, and which favor the enhancement of public reading indices and in the educational context. I think I argued with you the three points, just as you did at the beginning of your intervention, and saying that, of course, you should accept the amendment, and thus keep walking for the sake of Galicia and for the future of the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u54	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u55	Good afternoon. I also want to begin my intervention by expressing our deepest regret at the death of writer Domingo Villar, not only mine, but the whole Socialist Group and the entire PSdEG. His family and his friends were undoubtedly orphans, but also all the Greek readers and readers we read in English. By going to the motion, we share with the group this concern with the Greek book, a sector of the most important in the field of our culture, if not more; and even more with the reading indexes of our country. We are the least read of the state, Mrs Vázquez, the least read of the state. We also share the concern about the growing support of this industry, and of course, our language, which translates into a terrible decline of resources during the Feijó era, a trend that, in addition, we fear, will not change at this new time — we know it is short — but there is still something left of Mr. Rueda's time. And we also share the concern about the lack of strategy and serious commitment to the international projection of our language, of our literature, in the essence of our culture. The Galician Culture Council published during the pandemic the study The area of the book in Greece in the face of the crash of the 19th century, which began with a general diagnosis in which this council realized that the book sector had not yet recovered from the 2008 crisis. Among the causes of what the council itself calls "a structural crisis", however the structural term implies, they pointed to, on the one hand, the decline in private consumption of books, something which, we believe, should also concern administrations; and on the other hand, not least, but otherwise, public spending policies, seeing a very important decrease in the expenditure on procurement in libraries and large cuts in the budgets of the main programmes for promoting book and reading, with declines also above, with decreases above 50% in the worst moments of the crisis. Mrs. Vázquez, it's not true what you write to him, what you write to him no, what you have to do with it, what you have to do with that data is not correct, and I think you should meet with the sector to figure out what we're saying. In addition, if it had been little, the pandemic crisis affected this situation significantly, as they made it manifest — as Mrs. Queixas said here — both the Galician Association of Publishers and the Galician Federation of Books, as well as the Association of Writers and Writers in Galicia, which had tabled a proposal in recent times — certainly — presented a proposal also addressed to several administrations, not only to Galician, but that there was no response here since. In addition to this crisis, it must also be added to the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine, which is affecting very worryingly the price of paper, that is, the price of books. The reality is that the book industry is giving work in our country to thousands of people and that it could also export and create a lot more wealth if it wasn't because Junta despises the sector. Unlike in other autonomous communities, for example, Euskadi, who is at the head, there is a limited involvement of the Government of Galician Union in the policies of the book, which also has a very negative impact on the state of health of our language. And this is a reality, we also believe, indisputable. By the way, what we say is that the Galician Culture Council is also, as I tell you, referred to by all the agents involved in the sector, who are textually speaking of decline, of a dramatic situation, of the failure of productive publishing structures, they also speak of the weakness of our literary system. And all those associations that represent the sector, and we're talking about publishers, writers, bookstores, libraries, translators, illustrators, they all point to the Greek Administration as the correspondent of the situation that is precisely motivated by the budget mermaid that extends over time. Also in the libraries, Mrs. Vázquez. On Friday, we will have an opportunity in Commission 4 to discuss this matter. Also in libraries. In essence, all agree that the German book in recent times had neither the help nor the impulse from the Greek Administration that it had in previous times. - I'm telling you again - this is not happening, it's not happening in other autonomous communities. By the way, I invite you to meet with these associations and maybe that data that you manage eventually turns into very different ones, gathers with publishers, meets with bookstores, meets with writers, meets with them. If we're already talking about reading habits, and this is something that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is very concerned about, data reflects a very worrying reality in our country. By handing out the last barometer, Reading Habits and Buying Books of the year 2021, prepared by the Federation of Editors of Spain — it's the barometer that also manages the Ministry of Culture, also here we find that Galicia's own board handles it as an official document—we find that, far from improving, we continue to be below the state average in the percentage of readers and readers of books in free time. The state average is 64.4% and we don't reach 62%. And what does this do? It places us among the last autonomous communities in this reading habits index. And, in view of this unquestionable reality, because we like to be rigorous and offer data that are not ours, of course, but from official sources, where is the Union of Galicia? We don't know the truth. We don't know where the German Government is in this situation. Of course, I could be working on the paragraph-by-day or paragraph-by-week strike in that much-needed reading promotion plan. By the way, besides -- it's said here, it's true -- thank you for the law, which you come to announce us, I think it's already going to a lustro that you've announced that you're already about this. It's like the Galician Television Information Council, which also lacks little, but they've been saying that they've been missing for years. Something like that. The Galician Cultural Strategy 2021, that document that had been agreed with all the Greek cultural agents of what we know little about, already proposed as a strategic goal to reform the book sector; and it was also talking about the need to update the Law of Book and Reading to suit the transformations of the sector today. And he also exposed many other measures that remained in it, on wet paper, like almost all that strategy. So, what's the consequence? That we continue without a plan to promote reading, we also continue without significantly increasing the budgets for the book. You take a look, I also invite you to do this exercise, to see that this is what was meant in 2012. And he didn't rule the bipartite either, in 2012. You compare it with this year and 2012. And we made it remarkable that we said those resources. Why? Because only then can we consolidate the book as a strategic cultural sector in our country. Besides, it's defined by the law itself. The law itself says that the book is a strategic sector in our country. As far as point 3 of the motion of the proposed group is concerned, it is true that we need a true strategy of international positioning of our culture. As is the case, of course, in this strategy of Greek culture, which also contains measures to promote the export of the Greek cultural industries, including the book, of course, and quote to promote sectoral plans for internationalization, we have not seen the first; and of course, to do so with the collaboration of the agents and industries involved in promoting access to international markets. We don't know anything. He also spoke of enhancing the exports of the Greek book or supporting the translations of the works in the English language, of the Italian editorials to other languages of strategic interest to facilitate their external dissemination. We're still waiting, too. Little if you've done it, very little if you've done it in this sense of not being actions... Mrs. Vázquez, you put them here on the table, it's true, something is done, but they're actions spread over time not with a continuity, absolutely despondent, and they don't obey a strategy, which is what we formulate. So, of course, we're not going to consolidate the structure, which should really be the goal. We have to confess that, in view of how our country works, and not because of our own guilt, and the government dependence on which they are subjected, besides entities that should be independent or, at least, should be objective or objective, we do not have too much clarity — confession — or too much expectation that the creation of a language and culture institute in Galicia will solve the current situation. But we don't think it's necessary, but, as I say, we don't have too much hope that this could work. But the fact is that the other historical communities of the state have that body, an autonomous body that certainly leaps by the internationalization of its culture to the point that, for example, the weight of the book industry in Catalonia in its economy is equivalent to that of the entire culture sector in our country. Only the book is equal to the weight of our entire culture in our country. Having said this — and it's over — we support this motion of the Galician Nationalist Block that goes in addition to much in line with the non-law proposition that we will bring tomorrow to this very plenary session, and we really hope that the People's Party will be able to understand the importance of a cultural sector that is not only ill, it is true, but partly of that lack of support from the Greek administration. Nothing else on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u57	Congratulations, Mr. President. I appreciate the support, even the empathy of the colleague of the Socialist Group, for this motion we are defending here today. I think it's a little bit minimal, it's three fundamental pillars that really demonstrate the desire to build a solid structure for the present and for the future of Greek literature, especially starting from the base, from the perspective that we're not afraid that the literature of Galicia will grow and expand far beyond our borders. And with regard to the colleague of the People's Parliamentary Group, the truth is that quite a few things are clear about his intervention. First of all, it becomes clear that with this numbering of lines, what the People's Party has, it's the literature that's very much on the line, but very, very on the line. Every year more, every year more scalable. What we've also deduced is that they don't listen at all to the sector, neither did they hear the small paragraphs I read today about interventions, communications, very critical pronouncements with the politics of the People's Party; they don't listen to it, they don't read it either; that's why there's no minimal empathy with the literature of Greek. And they don't talk either, they don't talk to the sector, because if you didn't, you wouldn't dare, you'd have much more decorum and you wouldn't do the intervention you did here today. I'm surprised, in addition, even if I don't know him, that you show that you don't know the job or the job itself, or part-time work of the People's Party, because you're a member of the Committee on Education and Culture. And you mention here so splendidly the Library Law and you know that I've already brought to that commission the claim that that law that you passed in 2012 still doesn't develop ten years later. So you don't seem to know much about how the political strategy even of your party is. [[Applause]] By step I will also remind you of the Archive Law, which they approved in 2014 and we also continue to wait for them to develop the compromised archive plan. When you talk about internationalization, I'm not going to be able to go in there anymore, because you've talked about something else that has nothing to do with an institute of internationalization of Greek language, literature and culture. I'll just recommend you go to the web and visit Etxepare Institute, Ramón Lul Institute and Cervantes Institute. Then you'll realize that you've just done something like this here very close to ridicule, and I'm sorry to tell you that. [[Applause]] And, with regard to the Galician Council of Culture, of course, if we've been talking about something for about two years now is the defence of the Galician Council of Culture but really. I mean, in the Committee on Budgets... [[Murmurs.]] With the gratitude that it is always the literature of Galicia, I recommend that they read a little more of the literature of Greece that they will take the world, and life and days with another optimism and another happiness. [[Applause]] With regard to the Galician Council of Culture, we of course have very much in mind, so in the Committee on Budgets we demand that there be some budgets at the same time — and we say again this year for the second time — of what is a statutory body like the Galician Council of Culture, and you know that. Or as we continually demand that the reports of the Galeg Culture Council be respected in any area, particularly in the heritage and in those reports, in those studies that clearly delete all that level, that volume of aggression of the wind boom, in relation to our natural, cultural, environmental and other heritage that you have not yet seen. And I'm surprised they remember that there is the Council of Greek Culture, I'm surprised. [[Applause]] But, look, precisely the last barometer of the Galician Culture Council, which has emerged now very recently, says that the Union continues to suspend in the management of attention to Greek culture during the pandemic. They're still with 4.7. In two years they had no time yet to learn to overcome and approve. And that same barometer says that, precisely in terms of expectations for the recovery of the cultural sectors, in which there is — literally, it can be read, is from the Galaga Culture Council — the greatest pessimism is precisely in what refers to the trade in books and periodical publications. Go take note, please, that it is a good thing. On the reading plan, you've already shown that you have absolutely no word, because you're not interested in anything. On May 24, 2018, Mr. Secretary General of Culture said that the Strategy of Greek Culture will include a plan to dynamize reading. I don't know where he is, because we haven't seen him at the moment. A little later, on September 7, 2018, Mr. Secretary General of Culture said again: "The Advisory Board of the Book studies the lines of attention that will define the Greek Read dynamization Plan; it is well studied because at the moment it has not arrived. But it is also for the People's Party's Parliamentary Group to give this situation so much shame, this lack of commitment to the book, to the reading and to the Greek society, which they themselves, Mr Ferro, defended in the Committee on Culture on 7 September 2001 the need to urge the Union to resume the work on the development of the Plan for the dynamisation and impulse of reading in Galicia as soon as possible. I mean, the Government doesn't even listen to the People's Party's Parliamentary Group and, in the meantime, the Greek society remains without a reading plan that is bound by the Law of the Book and the reading of the year 2007. [[Applause]] That's how we are. You live in persistent dialectic fraud. The PP gives exactly the same, because the only thing that matters to the PP is the PP itself, we've seen it in the last three months; what doesn't matter at all is Galicia. On the amendment they tabled, because of course it is an amendment that clearly ignores our motion, gives the backs to the demands of the book and reading sector in English, even amends its own action in the Committee on Education and Culture of the People's Party's Parliamentary Group itself. And we, what do you want me to tell you, between the word of the sector and not the word of the People's Party, will always choose that of the sector. You just proved with this amendment that they continue with that routine policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u59	... that they're bringing back, that it's not really going to change anything, either, for the area of Greek culture and literature, as they show that they're not going to switch to the Greek language, with that remark that their partner made in the previous intervention, Mrs. Teresa Egerique, against the compliance of the Law of Linguistic Standardization. We're already very clear what language matters, what language literature matters here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u61	I'm done, Mr. President. If we're actually going to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u62	Silence! Your time is up. Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We started by voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Don Noelia Otero Lago. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of donna Noelia Otero Lago, on the coverage of the lower education staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u63	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Ms. Mercedes Complaints. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Vote of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Don Mercedes Complaints on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the dynamization of reading. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The voting is negative This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-24-DSPG083.u64	The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
