ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u1	Good morning. We resume the session and, firstly, I want to communicate the justification for non-appropriation and delegation of vote, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure, by Ms Maria Monserrat Prado Cores on the spokesperson of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo. They now correspond to the speeches of the parliamentary groups, which may make the use of the word as minor for a period of 35 minutes, in accordance with the agreement agreed by the Bureau and the Council of Spokesman on the 5th of May. After the candidate's reply, which may be individual or globally, the representatives of the parliamentary groups will have a 10-minute replication round, and finally the candidate will intervene in the replication or closure round. After the debate and before the announcement in accordance with Rule 136.5 of the Rules of Procedure, I will announce when the vote will take place, without prejudice to the effect of the sitting making it necessary for it to be heard at the moment. So let's start. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I greet all the authorities accompanying us today in the guest gallery, as well as the guests of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular, the Vice-President of Salgadas Women, the representative of Eventals in Luita and the President of Cermi Galicia, as well as the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Galicia, Mr González Formoso. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, first thank Mr. Núñez Feijóo for his work over the past 13 years as President of the Galician Union, since his political discrepancy, but since institutional and personal recognition, because I know what work is meant by surrendering to the public service. You weren't the president you personally wanted, but you were my president. I wish you, at the staff, the best of the future. Mr. Rueda, be sure that we listen carefully to him and that we have followed his investment speech with interest from the socialist bench. I've already told you that we've probably been much more careful than the President of the Board has been in functions, sitting next to him, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who's been with the suitcase made and with his head out of Galicia for a long time. We heard him, Mr. Rueda, and I have to tell him that his speech sounds repetitive, in addition to it, at a time when he has already given himself everything he could give. We haven't seen fresh ideas or country projects in your proposal. There's a few rectals collected from here and there, which I'm not able to make a suit as much as Galicia needs. He's got a northless compass in his hands, unable to point the course. Your only account is that you will follow Mr. Núñez Feijóo's example, as if with this were enough. We don't see the height of your eyes. You're missing a show and you're missing a screenwriter. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that your project is a very loose spin-off, without argument; it's something like the sequel to a film that has already been mediocre and in which you began to see the cover of the final credits, the end of a political cycle. Look, Mr. Rueda, it's hard for me to see that Galicia you look at us. It's hard for me to see what your model is. If I'm not mistaken, if we hear him well, you just talk to us about Galicia and the Government of the Union as a way that goes from the Middle Ages and where one of the walkers has just been removed. This rhetorical figure that may be very well betrayed, since we're in the Holy Year, I dare tell you that as a Jamaican publicist you still have enough to improve. The Way won't solve the problems this country has. The Way - it's true - is a symbol of Greek and European identity, which we have to preserve, but the Way will not look for a doctor in Pharmacy, trained in Galicia, to emigrate to Munich to work in a leading scientific institute. What is your model, Mr. Rueda - I insist -? Look, one of the brightest minds of 20th-century statistics, George Pelham Box, speaking of mathematical models, said that "all models are wrong, but some are useful." And I would say that his model, in addition to incorrectly, proved not to be useful for Galician interests nor for the interests of Galicians and Greeks. [[Applause]] But let's go aside. You have devoted much of your speech to claiming a legacy, to making a 13-year balance of whose political government, Mr. Rueda, is responsible. And it points out as a achievement, at the highest level, that they managed to keep the institutional architecture of the autonomous community safe, as if the architecture of the rest of Spain, as if the institutions of, for example, Madrid, Euskadi or Aragon collapsed and fell into pieces. He even says that every year they were able to approve some budgets. And, of course, I imagine the little work you've spent to bring together enough to bring those budgets forward. Every year they approved budgets, magnificent achievement; every month they paid bills, very well; and every day they got that, when they opened the San Caetano bill, they went out water. Magnificent! Congratulations on all this! But of course, when we make a real balance, the balance that interests the Greeks and the Greeks, the thing changes. The reality is very stubborn, Mr. Rueda. And if you really walked the street, if you had listened to people, holding your gaze, you would soon find yourself with some of the great problems of this country, with the lack of working opportunities for the young and better-formed people of our history, with the difficulties that thousands of patients have to be consulted by their head doctor when they require it or with the weak consistency of protection mechanisms enabled from the Unity of Galicia to cope with the difficulties arising from the war of Ukraine and the fuel upheaval. His balance sheet of these thirteen years, of which he was responsible, is basically the following: In health care, which is 40% of autonomic spending, his speech is triumphalist and certainly twisted, for he aims to show that everything in the hands of the Galician Union works precisely millimetricly, while the rest of the world is guilty of the evils and deficiencies of the system. But at this moment, Mr Rueda, we must remember that this year 2022 the Autonomous Community of Galicia is in the second half of the ranking of autonomous communities in health expenditure per inhabitant. This classification — let me comment — places as the worst autonomous communities in Murcia, Andalusia and Madrid. And I don't think it's necessary to tell anyone in this House who rules in all of them, while in the first posts on the table are autonomous communities like the Basque Country, Asturias or Navarre. And with this data in the future, we have to face that Welsh health has suffered a gradual transformation process in the last decade that has led to the concentration of services, both at the geographic and the care level. Valdeorras, Lemos, The Navy and Salnés have stopped being health areas, and their reference hospitals now see how services depend on the availability of hospitals in big cities. You have created, Mr. Rueda, a two-speed healing. To this end, it responds to the attempt to close the neighborhood of Verín, which was very mediatic, but also that today there are problems in maintaining the service of cardiology in the Navy, rehabilitation in the boat, radiology technicians in Salnés or even nursing supplies in Monforte. And let's go to primary care, the entrance door to the health system. When they arrived, they received a working model, in which there were no waiting lists and in which any patient had the opportunity to be cared for in time and form, and in a face-to-face manner, by his head doctor. The long waits for appointment and telephone attention are now the bread of every day, Mr. Rueda, and about this it is not enough to tell us that they will do their best to improve primary care, because that, until now, is equal to nothing. With the care network for older people, dependents and disabled people, what we all already know, and which the Board of Auditors has also noted: that there is an excess of privatization of squares, with a progressive drop in inspections, which, of course, creates a perverse formula for the well-being of older people. If there is a lack of professionals in the centers and the ratios are not met, it is not controlled; if there is not sufficient material resources available, it is not monitored; and if there is some incorrection in the treatment of users, perhaps no one detects it. After the covered 19 pandemic had converted residences into the real zero zone of the pandemic, Junta undertook to promote a new organizational model of care networks that we don't see anywhere. Just a little cosmetics, a few headlines, but the model remains the same: zero new-create public squares and a whole network of private care. Even the seven residences whose construction is financed by Mr. Amancio Ortega in the Greek cities we fear that, if nothing prevents him, they also end up in the hands of the private initiative, which seeks profit in the care of older people. And I don't want to leave this paragraph without also referring to the deficiencies found in Galicia in the dependency aid system. Ratings to users and approval of help plans are procedures that are eternal in time. The help -- and we know many of those we're here because of family circumstances -- comes often late and their staffing is far from meeting the needs. In the area of education, thanks to the effort and sacrifice made by the professor during the pandemic are simply stated if the policies that develop along the path of the cuts we have seen in the last decade. It's time to reverse the policy of cuts and attacks on public education. Mr. Núñez Feijóo will leave the Presidency of the Council of Galicia with the balance of having closed nothing more and nothing less than 138 public schools and reducing the educational budget by 113 million euros. The freeness of textbooks, implemented by a socialist government, is today remembered as a mirrorism in the history of Autonomy, because it was a measure that PP always burned in its hands. The funding for private and concerted centres continued to grow year by year, in the same way that sub-refugees were used to shield the funds for the centres that segregate students by sex. When you came to the government, there were 30,000 teachers in the public education in Galicia, and now there are 1,400 teachers less. Mr. Rueda, you must meet and listen to the fair demands and needs regarding the recovery of teaching hours and the progressive reduction of rates where they are most necessary and to re-fill the teachers. And look, they pay special attention to rural people; that children and children living in these rural surroundings may be educated near their home, without needing to waste hours and hours in displacements. To bet on the countryside, Mr. Rueda is also this, to stop closing schools and allow them to continue to provide essential public services. In the field of economics, employment, productive sectors, their economic policy lacks focus and guidance. It is limited to saying, as you said in your speech, that it will do the same thing as it was done, when what has been done so far has not been used to stop industrial dismantling or to accelerate modernization, technological innovation or digital transformation, so necessary to change the foundations of our economic model, in order to generate more wealth and employment opportunities. You highlight the evolution of public debt in Galicia as a success, when the truth is it has tripled in absolute terms. In 2008, in order to hear all of the Galicians and Greeks, the public debt of the community amounted to EUR 1,429 per inhabitant. Today every Greek owes 4,353 euros, three times more, without us being able to know very well for it to serve this commitment. They love each other once again in tax cuts, putting other people's humbling duties, but leaving them in the slightest expression when it's up to you. We're still waiting for the exemption from port charges, fuel discounts or reductions in the rates and taxes that depend on the autonomous community. And now you're announcing a reduction in the first IRPF section from 9.4% to 9%. But how much are you going to suppose that for a Greek family? Before you tell me the figure, I'm going to tell you that the count is very small. Do you know, Mr. Rueda, that in Galicia we have 50,700 homes with all of your assets unemployed? Do you also know that in 27,300 of these homes do not receive unemployment benefit or any other kind of income? The last active population survey, about the first quarter of this 2022, let us see some alarms already. To begin with, signal an increase in part-time recruitment, with a rate of 14.3%, without losing sight of the fact that the rate of involuntary bias is very high - I repeat, involuntary bias - of 77.9%. The workers, Mr. Rueda, want full-time jobs, but they can't find them. The unemployment rate for children under 25 does not improve either; on the other hand, it rises to 32%, two points more than in the average state. Yes, we have some more positive data at the rate of temporaryity, because employees with indefinite contracts increase by 6% because of the effects of labour reform; Mr. Rueda, that last job reform that you, in the People's Party, celebrated by boating in Congress along with Vox because they thought you weren't going to go ahead. [[Applause]] If, in 1999, German agriculture, one of our traditionally strategic sectors, generated 5.8% of the Spanish agricultural income, with 21% of the farmers, in 2018 it got 4.9%, but only 6.8% of the agricultural population. Nine out of every 10 farms in Galicia have disappeared, and in the next ten years more than half of our farmers and livestock will retire. There is a lack of an active land management policy that supports the increase in the territorial base of farms in respect of land abandonment. More than two-thirds, Mr. Rueda, from the territory of Galicia is in a state of abandonment. We have only 21% of our useful agricultural land, while Spain has more than twice as much, 46%. It's data they know, of course they know, but they don't try to change. The abandonment of forest management is evident, since the same problems of the 20th century continue, such as fires, abandonment of communities of neighboring mountains or the disappearance of the forest industry. The loss, Mr. Rueda, of value from the mountain is evident, and his contribution to the Greek GDP has fallen by 25% in just over two decades. And in the case of fishing, another of our strategic sectors, the only thing we heard in his speech was sales and billing, and as a single line of work they launched the idea of attacking the failure of generational relief, but, yes, without concrete measures. And to be sure that this is one of the biggest problems facing the sector, we cannot ignore that it has many other problems facing it and, among them, that rise in the price of fuels and raw materials to which the Government of Greece, even though it criticizes the measures taken by Madrid, is not able to articulate a line of own aids. Lots of ships, we see him with the pretty coast, but it's not even profitable for them to get out of here. [[Applause]] And the response of the board is the arms crossed. And what model of society do you leave us, Mr. Rueda? Don't get me wrong, but they've been talking about the demographic decline for years, claiming rural life and birth, bringing plans and impulse laws to this Parliament, and the truth is, after more than a decade, we haven't seen any results. In the last thirteen years, Galicia has become smaller, has lost something more than 100,000 inhabitants; it's graphically as if a black hole swallows a city like Santiago de Compostela. They talk about setting up population in rural areas, but rural punishment by cutting public services, closing unitarian schools, not covering the corresponding squares, for example, of pediatricians, reducing public transport lines or allowing financial exclusion by closing banking offices. Mr. Rueda, they haven't met the worries of the Galician youth. The young and young people of this country, the most educated generation in history, need work opportunities, not vacation camps. Since you came to Junta, about 200,000 young men and girls have packed to find a job and continue researching outside Galicia. [[Applause]] It's a demolition balance, which envelops us and impoverishs us as a country. So we add that about 320,000 girls and boys between the ages of 15 and 34 are forced to live with their families, almost 67% of that age group. We've been in front of the highest ever since there have been records according to the Survey that continue to be home to the National Institute of Statistics. And in the meantime, the Union has failed to execute -- say what they say -- 400 million euros in housing policies in the period 2010-2020. Mr. Rueda, EUR 400 million is worth a lot of euros that have stopped applying to housing policies. Nor are there programs aimed at correcting the housing problems of people with lower incomes or needs of integration, and the Greek Network against Poverty has been warning for years that this has already become the main problem of exclusion in Galicia. By equality, what do you want me to tell you? He spent 10 seconds in a speech of nearly an hour and a half. His vision of equality and feminism continues to be hollow and contentless, and he tries to complement it with constant appeals to the family, and I suppose, moreover, that with priority of a very particular family. Nothing told us about the wage gap, one of the main obstacles to achieving equality in the workplace. There are studies that say that the pay gap is 19.3%, which translates into the practice in which the German workers, the Greek women, charge an average of 5,000 euros less a year than men. And it's actually like women were abandoned at another time, because they get an average salary similar to what men charged in Galicia 12 years ago. Now you'll also want to talk about self-government, Mr. Rueda, and develop our Statute of Self-Government. The thing has its value, especially when it participated in all the governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who we already know will not pass into history as one of the architects of the German Autonomy, because the difference between what happens with former presidents Albor, Laxe, Fraga or Touriño, was the first one who did not extend our competition framework or even achieved a single transfer. [[Applause]] And we also see that he continues without requisitioning his mentor's doctrine, always looking for someone to bear the blame for what they are unable to do. In a favorite place in your country, you have Madrid, the Government of Spain, we don't know if you're already starting a strategy that will also lead you to make your bags to forge a political destiny in the Meseta. And many other times, as couldn't be less, it's Vigo's fault, the vigues and the vigues, even from his mayor, because he gives me the impression, as happens with the cities of Coruña, Lugo, Santiago, Ferrol or Pontevedra, they've already taken a lot of measure from the People's Party. And they will also take it very soon in Ourense, Mr. Rueda, when the citizens have the opportunity to repudiate that pact of shame which keeps improperly in the mayorship to those who do not know how to be up to the office they hold. Put an end, Mr. Rueda, to that dementia because now that's in your hands too. [[Applause]] I told him to come to this Parliament to ask for support for investment, with Madrid, not Galicia, in its head, and perhaps that's why I ask a dozen questions to the President of the Government of Spain. I think he makes them with a purely rhetorical sense, because if he had asked the Greeks and the Greeks those same questions, he would, for example, submit himself to the saying of the polls, he would surely find himself with such a forceful answer as unsatisfactory for his interests. But look, Mr. Rueda, we are political here in Galicia. We're at Horreo, not St. Jerome's Career. The control sessions of President Pedro Sánchez are already being held in Congress, and very soon Mr. Núñez Feijó will also do his own thing in the Senate; that is, using a designated post created to defend the interests of this land, not the interests of the People's Party. [[Applause]] So allow me, Mr. Rueda, since we're here face to face, let me also ask you a few questions about Galicia and even anticipate some of the answers: What is the response from Together to a patient who spent the night with fever or who rises with lumbalxia? What are you going to offer health care workers who are trained in Galicia to stay in Galicia? How will the abolition of the 1,334 teacher squares be corrected?, leaving a new funding for sex-segregating centres? What is your commitment to the deficit of residential squares for larger?, or does that question have to be referred to Amancio Ortega? And the dependents who wait for months, years, for an individualized help plan, what do we offer?, the charity of a beggar order? What is your forecast to expand the competences of our self-government? What can young people hungerfully expect to have a job opportunity on their land?, a summer camp? What strategy do you have to expand public spending on R+D+i?, paralyze post-doctoral contracts again? What's your recipe for correcting the pay gap between men and women? This one doesn't have to answer me, I anticipate it: none. And that chair of the University of Vigo to advance the improvement of coordination with the Town Councils, would you put it on the campus of Ourense? That's ten questions. [[Applause]] I can understand, Mr. Rueda -- because even that would be a human thing -- that living better by putting on the other tasks that you're doing, that it's calmer by deriving the responsibilities to third parties than assuming them in the first person. You demand others, you blame others, but you don't, it doesn't apply; it acts like that lazy student who doesn't perform his own tasks and does the other's tasks demanding. Badly started, Mr. Rueda, if that's going to be the norm, because what he denotes is that, perhaps, he was much more comfortable on the role of eternal number two, and not on the level of responsibility he's willing to assume. Are you really ready, Mr. Rueda? Do you feel like facing this task? Are you aware of the role of the person in the presidency of Galicia? The main eve of your investment speech, Mr. Rueda - and I see the obligation to remind you over and over again - is that you were unable to transfer a political project hungry for the future to this House. No illusion, no fatigue. Instead of fresh ideas, what we see is exhaustion and the same words as always. But Galicia can no longer wait for you to learn, to get used to it in the hope that, at least someday, it has some ability to conduct this orchestra harmoniously. We, the Socialist Party of Galicia, of course, will not wait, we can't, and that's why today we want to launch our alternative of government, which we will also put in value before the Greeks and the Greeks when we are called to the polls. It's an alternative that wants to regain illusion and trust on this earth, a project that doesn't want to raise walls or bans, but to build a country with the future and that works, that focuses on the development of new industrial projects, with the installation of new renewable energy sources to provide them; an alternative that is affixed by training and innovation, yes, but above all to get stuck in Galicia. A project, ultimately, that gives hope to the youth who is finishing their studies or exploring a very limited labour market and who is unable to offer a qualified position to meet their potential. We want an economic model that works and is rooted in the European framework for sustainability, technological innovation, with regard to the environment and the circular economy, but we also propose an economy that operates in many other areas, as is the case with fashion, automobiles, the agri-food industry, logistics, the processing of fishery products or ships. And the alternative of the Government that we are in a position to lead the Greek socialists and the people, from the moment they can pronounce the people, has these characteristics that I'm going to summarize to them very briefly. First of all, it's a government alternative that wants to put this country into operation, betting on the transformative projects of our resources, such as milk, wood or fishing and aquaculture production. It's an alternative designed to enhance the raw materials and mineral resources of our territory, the condition — I insist — that it is compatible with the environment and the management framework. It's also an alternative that is not closed against clean energy, but rather bets on developing the potential that we have for the generation of wind energy or green hydrogen, which are essential to ensure our future and, in the future, supply to industry and families. Our alternative model proposes a new industrial revolution, but it must respect the useful agrarian surface and the protected or sensitive natural areas. We will support, Mr. Rueda, that the Stellantis group has a future in Galicia, with the determined involvement of the Central Government and the Galician Union as well. We will support the fact that the Other Group is also set up in Galicia, with the active involvement of all administrations, whether or not it is committed to European funding in advance. And that's a fundamental difference with regard to that star announcement you made, which, of course, transfers responsibility to other administrations. We have designed an alternative of government that does not renounce the goal of investing 3% of gross domestic product in R & D+i policies, as was done in its day in the Lisbon Strategy, something in which the Union is already defeated, because in a whole decade it has not been able to increase its spending on innovation over 1%. [[Applause]] We want, Mr. Rueda, to put an end to the indentation of the talent of this country; we want that young researcher in chemistry, who is captured by a laboratory in Germany, or that this forest engineer who has to leave to Sweden, or that journalist who can only develop his audiovisual profession in Barcelona, also have an opportunity in Galicia, in the country where they were formed. Our alternative of government is to give the industry the final arena to biotechnology, which Galicia has a lot to say about. And we're going to do it by redoubled efforts to double the number of patents, especially in health sciences, but also in the food sector. The Socialist Party of Galicia — I am well aware — has designed an alternative of a free-of-attached government, collaborative with the federal organization of which it is part, but at no time subordinated or dependent on interests other than those of Galicia. That's why we've just demanded that the Oceanographic Institute have its main headquarters in Vigo, and that's why -- listen to me, which are you particularly given to dispersal -- we defend that the facilities of the sea-industry chain, which so much employment generates on the Greek coast, can follow where it is, because they are perfectly compatible with the care of our back. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Home!, I understand that before a programme, a statement of solid intentions, as this one I have just done, which responds to the interests and needs of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, you become nervous. I'd do it in your place, too. [[Murmurs.]] The alternative of the Socialist Party's government is also a Galician power territory, a Galician industrial territory, a Galician territory of science, a Galician territory of innovation, a Galician territory of work opportunities, a Galician territory of quality primary care, a Galician that knows how to care for its greatest, the most vulnerable, in a Galician territory of its own culture and language and that knows how to preserve and promote them as one of its most valuable treasures. That's the future we're going to see around the corner, Mr. Rueda: an activated and running Galicia, a country that recovers illusion and dynamism, which overcomes the complexes of the People's Party and its governments. You said here at your investment session that you were not going to photocopy the last pages of Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government, and you probably don't do it because it's possible to distribute photocopies as if they were the shares of an inheritance: a thermal center for Ourense, a chair for Vigo, a reinforced delegation for Ferrol... finally, with little foundation or no foundation. As an Argentinian writer, Mr. Rueda, said, "there are eternal days that threaten to end," and that is his government project: an old and exhausted proposal, to which the Greeks and the Greeks are going to give him a folder — no doubt about it — as soon as elections are called and we have an opportunity to offer to the Greek society this alternative that embodies the Socialist Party of Galicia, because it is ultimately the necessity that this autonomous community has of a new project, as I have just outlined. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u3	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[Applause]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u4	Good morning. I want to begin by saying hello to all the Greeks and Greeks who are following us through the media and social networks and those who follow us in this forum. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rueda, candidate for the People's Party. These are complicated times, times of distress and uncertainty for many Greeks and Greeks, when they were just coming out of the pandemic tunnel, they came in full in a price crisis. And I know that today, in their homes, the way of their work, raising the shutter of their business, or reviewing the bills that accumulate, many people wonder until they can resist, how many more obstacles will have to overcome, which will happen tomorrow in an increasingly complex and changing world and what the future awaits our children and children; many questions that deserve answers. [[Applause]] That's why I want to address all those Galicians and Greeks and tell you that yes, that it's possible to turn this decline situation around, that it's possible to build a better Galicia. To all those people, I want to tell you that Galicia is a country with a future, because we have wealth, potential and the best capital that any society can have: working, honest people with the ability to get ahead in the toughest times. [[Applause]] I want to tell you that it is possible for a Galician with quality health and public education, free from cuts and privatization, in which older people have a dignified old age; a Galician where young people don't have to emigrate; and having a job means having a salary that will allow you to reach the end of the month, emancipate or have your own life. To all of you, I want to tell you that it is possible for a productive Galicia, with a live rural, to bet decisively on science and innovation, a reference environment and clean energies — yes — to improve people's lives and fight climate change, but not as an alibi for a predatory wind boom. [[Applause]] I want to tell you that it is possible for a Galician woman to be free and equal, where social well-being and not poverty can grow, with a quality democracy and public media serving society. I want to tell you that yes, that it is possible to have a strong Galician, proud of its language and culture and to have a dialogue with you with other nations of the world. It's possible, and for that we need to have a government that tells you whether Galicia, who leaves the skin in the defense of the country, who leaves the skin in the defense of all of you. That's the government we've aspired since the BNG to lead, with all humility but with all ambition; adding, with the tending hand, knowing that we are a plural society in which there are many, many ways of feeling Greek, of feeling Welsh and that all are necessary to build this better Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Greek exchange is in progress; it started its countdown for a change of government in the Union. [[Applause]] And on that back, Mr. Rueda, you're going to be an accidental president, the first president who hasn't elected as such the Greeks and the Greeks. And they don't call elections because they know they'd lose them. He's just gonna make it to the president of the rebound board, 'cause his row boss... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u5	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u6	...considered it more important to be president of the PP than to be president of Galicia, considered it more important to occupy the seat of a People's Party condemned for corruption than to deal with the Government of Galicia. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And it's not a novelty, actually, we've been with a government for 13 years that always put the interests of the PP in front of Galicia's interests. They've been against this country for 13 years, something that you, Mr. Rueda, are given very well; in fact, they've already done so before they sit on the board. He does have experience. And we remember many and many Mr. Rueda in that outraged demonstration — in the first row, by the way — against the Greek, of crocheting with the most ultra and more reactionary collectives. There you were, attacking our common language, which unites us, which makes us what we are. [[Applause]] Anyone who wants to preside over the country today has in his resume the attack and contempt on the language of the country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] There he was also behind the most dirty electoral campaign you remember, a bannerman of the fake news, joining that policy of "everything worth" in order to be made with power and making clear what his ethical list is. From his passage through the Government, it's impossible to quote a proposal that was relevant. We remind you that you are responsible for a strike that has broken this country's justice for three months. [[Applause]] Out of that, he was adored in a gray government that has been installed in not Galicia for 13 years, because you are the People's Party of the Not: not to raise taxes to the electricians, not to a model of residences which guarantees a dignified old age, not to reverse cuts in education and health, not to give the young people a future. I am the People's Party of Not to Science and Innovation, Not to a Living Rural, Not to Fight Climate Emergency, Not to Booze Our Industrial Sector; The PP of Not to the Greek Language and Culture, Not to More Skills and More Self-Government. In short, not Galicia. That's what the People's Party represents. [[Applause]] And the data is the best portrait of their outcome. On Tuesday, Mr. Rueda told us that they left a Galician unloaded. It's a lie. And I'm going to portray in five figures the huge burden they leave in this country. First figure, 218.000. It's 288,000 of the boys and girls who emigrated into Galicia who have a brutal demographic crisis. Second number, 925:925 are the hospital beds that have been closed. Third figure, 138: 138 are the public schools closed, 1 out of 10. Fourth digit, 38.300: 38.300 are the jobs destroyed in industry, agriculture and fisheries. Fifth figure, 600,000: 600,000 people are at risk of poverty in our country. A reality that concerns me especially, and is that we have the percentage of pensioners in extreme poverty situations in the state. And all of this, while they tripled the debt. What did you spend on, Mr. People's Party candidate if we're left with a Galician worse than they found? What did they spend on? [[Applause]] And you could go on, Mr. Rueda. You'll understand that with this service sheet, with this curriculum, we can't give you the support of the BNG, especially after checking that you have no project or proposals for the challenges that we have to face in a very harsh context: the two-year context of a pandemic, a three-hour war and a price crisis, a price crisis, a price increase, in a Galician where the Government of the People's Party is already leaving a demographic, industrial and social crisis. The Greeks and the Greeks need solutions, but they won't be found in a People's Party that already represents the past. And today we are faced with a debate of two models: the People's Party model, which offers nothing, except resignation, routine and self-recognition, and the model that we represent from the BNG, a solvent, exciting project, and the confidence that we can build and win a better Galician. The old or the new, the past or the future, the People's Party or the BNG. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u8	Those are... I don't know, I wish I could talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u9	I'm asking for silence because yes, there's some murmuring.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u10	I see them very nervous at PP to be so convinced. [[Applause]] The old or the new: these are the two models, the two alternatives that confront that debate. These are the two models of which you will soon be able to choose the Greeks and the Greeks when, unlike today, you can decide whether you want a president of the People's Party or a president of the BNG to rule Galicia. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, you have made a gray intervention, without ambition, without direction and without plans. In my speech, I will demonstrate that there is an alternative, explaining the strategic lines that a government of the BNG will set in motion to improve people's lives, starting with the most urgent price escalation that is drowning families, the working class, the autonomy and autonomy of this country and small and medium-sized enterprises. As president, a government of the BNG, would approve at the First Council of the Union a package of measures to help those in need, raising non-contributory pensions, improving the provision of risk, increasing aid for basic housing costs, lowering the rates of motorways, and also a package of powerful direct aid measures to the most affected sectors. [[Applause]] But to alleviate the effects of inflation, structural measures must also be put in place. And here's a debate that's fundamental: considering energy as a basic asset that can't be left in the hands of five multinationals. A government of the BNG would remove the chair that the electricians have on the board of the board of joints, betting on creating a public energy company, defending a Greek electric tariff that allows them to lower their light and raise their taxes to the electricians so they can help pay for a crisis they're breaking, because of course there are those who are lined up in this crisis: 11.050 million euros of profits in 2021, 226% more for Iberdrola, Naturgy, Enagas, Repsol and Endesa; 11.050 million euros that come out directly from the pockets of the majority of society. [[Applause]] And this is a scam to end with. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many debates that Galicia must face in a complex and changing context; debates about how to win real self-government, political weight, make Galicia produce, face climate change, give new people future, boost science and innovation or build a Galician equality. These challenges require a country project, and BNG has that project, a project to govern Galicia. Because yes, the BNG wants to rule Galicia, and we're ready to do it. A Galician government project based on 10 strategic goals: [[Applause]] The first is to strengthen public services. The People's Party is the one who is committed to loading the welfare state, and there we have been 13 years of cuts and privatizations. From the BNG, what we stand for is to strengthen public services. So, as president, my priority will be to get health from collapse, approving a shock plan of EUR 200 million in primary care, hiring staff in all categories, expanding the service portfolio and devoting 25% of Sergas's budget to primary care. [[Applause]] Galicia has the second highest suicide rate in the state. It's the second cause of death among young people, with numbers that are shocking. So for BNG will be a priority to design and implement a mental health plan. And we also have clear that the future of any society goes through education and knowledge, so we'll hire 1,000 teachers and teachers, we'll open the schools that the People's Party has closed and we'll strengthen the budget and support for public universities, because where the People's Party sees a cost, we see the best investment a country can make, which is the formation of its new people. [[Applause]] The PP government considers older people to be business. And that's what explains that in 13 years we had not built a single public residence and that we had 85% of private or private management squares. A BNG government would set up a model of public management residences, and we will legally proclaim the right to a worthy old age. We know that this isn't done in two days, but we're going to work from the first Board of Directors to pay that debt to older people. Never again old age as a business! [[Applause]] The second objective is to put the wealth of Galicia to produce. A country is its capacity to be productive, to generate wealth, employment and social welfare. But the People's Party leaves an abandoned rural and industrial desertification; a primary sector fighting to survive, both on earth and at sea. And the best example of their industrial policy is that they weren't able to save a single company in crisis. The government of the BNG will begin by halting relocations and closures of companies, providing us with a Galician Institute of Credit as a powerful tool for acting. And we will boost industrial weeding in the strategic sectors, with a plan to promote technological and industrial activity, with the aim of raising industry's weight to 25% of GDP in 2030. The government of the PP has the countryside in the abandonment, which is as much as saying the abandonment of 90% of the territory. A government of the BNG will do everything necessary — I repeat, everything necessary — to have a living, productive and inhabited rural with two lines of work: the first would be positive discrimination in the field of services — health, education, banking and technology — and the second, to put the rural to produce, with measures such as mobilising in 10 years 100,000 hectares of abandoned agricultural land, making it comply with the Food Chain Act and boosting agro-ecological production, which provides us with food sovereignty with quality food. And I want to make an explicit recognition to rural women, who are bannering some of the ideas with more future and innovative. All the advanced countries have a strong rural area, and we want to be one of them. [[Applause]] But Galicia is also a fishing nation, but with the PP government we have less fleet, less employment, less quota and less shellfish. The government of the BNG will bet on fishing and not on shipping, generational renewal, innovation and the complex sea-industry as a strategic sector of our economy. [[Murmurs.]] The third objective is science and research. The EU average for R & D+i is 2.23% of its GDP. Do you know what the investment in Galicia is? 1.1%; it's just half. And this clearly has consequences: continued escape from our investigative talent and patents falling into bites. We moved from 173 in 2009 to 60 in 2020. As president, I'm going to bet on placing Galicia in the vanguard of science and research, defining the research career with a Welsh Pact for Science that prioritizes retention and talent capture and creating the Innogal; and with resources, looking at us as an investment equivalent to 2.5 % of GDP, because without scientists and scientists there's no science and no science there's no future. [[Applause]] The target room is the climate emergency and a new energy model. The Government of the People's Party made the attack on the environment a sign of identity. There's the illegal extension of Ence, 20 percent of our eucalyptus-occupied territory, the lowest percentage of the State-wide Nature Network and the full recovery of rivers as eternal pending matter. A government of the BNG will develop a Welsh law against climate change, from the consensus and participation of the whole society and addressing issues such as fire fighting, sustainable waste management, urban planning, biodiversity or water management. And we know that talking about the future of the environment is talking about a new energy model. So in the face of the People's Party that has a predatory wind boom, the future government of the BNG says: wind energy, yes, but with a model that generates wealth and employment, that is exemplary in the environment and brings social benefit, that respects the rural environment and its people, and also with public participation in the benefits. [[Applause]] Let me be very clear: the BNG government will stop the predatory wind boom. Enough that they cheat on us with the bill of light and insult us above! Winds, yes, but at the service of Galicia, because the wind is not from the companies, it is from the Greeks and the Greeks. The fifth objective: political and financial self-government. The PP government in 13 years has achieved a record never seen: zero competences. Mr. Rueda, it's not that they didn't sweat the self-government t-shirt, they didn't even put it on. [[Applause]] A BNG government wants to move forward in a Galician with more decision-making capacity. And I would like to leave here two proposals: that the Joint Committee should be activated to request all pending powers and to create a presentation in Parliament to put on the table a new political status that recognises us as what we are, a historical nation, where the relevant decisions are in the hands of Greek citizenship. [[Applause]] And, as anyone knows, without financial autonomy, there is no political autonomy, and with the Government of the Galician People's Party it has lost 9,000 million euros of a financing system that has harmed us. A BNG government will defend having the key to our money through an economic concert like what Euskadi and Navarre have. But we can move towards that goal in fiscal and financial autonomy; in capacity in that area. How? Demanding that up to 90 per cent be increased by the percentage of taxes handed down, claiming the transfer of corporate taxes, advance in a green taxation or claiming that companies that have productive activity here are taxed here. Iberdrola, Naturgy, Endesa and so many others have to pay their taxes here because they're exploiting our natural resources. [[Applause]] The sixth target is the infrastructure. And here I want to start by talking about AP-9, a vertebral axis of a country where 90% of the goods go by road. On this subject, in AP-9, the People's Party has made a lot of contributions: privatization and continued rising of the fees. BNG has achieved a historical downturn on these beaches and will defend to rescue Galicia's concession. [[Applause]] We propose a plan to make airports and ports competitive, starting with the state taking on the debt of the port of Coruña, as you did with Valencia, and pushing the port of Vigo as a great economic engine. And yes, the arrival of AVE to Ourense is my good, even if it's decades behind, but it can't be the cost of deteriorating services like the proximity train. And today there are hundreds, hundreds of Greeks and Greeks, who have to get up very early in order to get to their jobs because they've cut off their schedules and frequencies. I'm telling you, as president, I'll have as a priority government a nearby train and they'll recover and modernise the lines, with rates adapted to our reality, because we want a train. [[Applause]] The seventh goal is relations with Portugal. In front of Madrid's centralism, a government of the BNG will give relations with Portugal a priority treatment for being economic, social and cultural strategic, with three fundamental issues: railway connections, in particular the southern exit of Vigo and the Atlantic corridor of commodities; secondly, a common economic development strategy in the euro region; and thirdly, the cultural and linguistic relations, in particular the development of the Peace Andrade Law. The Northern Galicia region of Portugal amounts to 6.4 million inhabitants, exceeding countries such as Denmark, Ireland or Finland. It's a great opportunity for Galicia. The past is the centralism of Madrid; the future, the Greek atlanticism. [[Applause]] The eighth strategic objective is equality. In the struggle of women for equality we need to put the turbo on. We will leave behind the passivity of the People's Party and, as President, I will make equality a piar, a challenge of the new government, with measures to end the pay gap and in favour of reconciliation and co-responsibility, because it is good that maternity penalizes women. [[Applause]] But we'll do a lot more. We will stop giving public money to private centres that segregate by sex, we will devote 1% of the budgets to the fight against male violence, and of course I will fight with maximum energy the negationist speech of violence against women. Because when they kill a woman for the mere fact of being, it's not domestic violence, it's masquerade terrorism, lords of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And I will fight with all my strength the speech of intolerance, of LGTBIphobia, of hate to each other, because we want a society free of intolerance, racism and xenophobia; we want a society where everyone is free to be, to feel and to love. [[Applause]] The ninth objective is language and culture. The government of the PP is not even able to use Xacobeo to push and support our creators and creators, and maintains the decree of shame, which is lethal to our language. Well, look, Greek is the only language in the whole state that loses speakers, especially among new people. The government of the BNG will have among its first decisions the derogation from that decree and return Greek to teaching as a vehicle language. Because today, Mr. Rueda, there are thousands of parents and mothers who denounce how their sons and daughters enter the school door speaking German and go out speaking Spanish. [[Applause]] We have to stop the nonsense of turning the school into a self-containing machine. We'll bet on our language and culture as a source of wealth and employment, with the launch of the Castro Rosalía Institute, to promote its internationalization, and boosting audiovisual creation, particularly for the children's audience, so orphaned by content in English. We need a government that cares for the language and guarantees its knowledge, so the generations that come behind them have the freedom to say that they speak Greek because yes, because it knocks them out and gets them out of the way and they like it. We want present and future for Greek. [[Applause]] The tenth strategic objective is the defense of democracy. The People's Party is very comfortable imposing a low-quality democracy, ruling for economic lobbyies, vamping public television and applying its absoluteist roller in this Parliament. The People's Party feels comfortable in the corruption of contracts arranged with relatives and friends, "pillars" that give millionaire balls in the middle of a pandemic that cost thousands and thousands of lives; comfortable voting against investigating the corruption of the monarchy or against investigating the spying of citizens for their ideology. The BNG will return to this Parliament the respect and centrality it deserves, will return the public to its only and true owners, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, and will work to serve the majority of society and not to a prey of privileged people sitting on the board of directors. We'll never cross any spin door. [[Applause]] These are measures and proposals that a government of the BNG will put in place to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I want this debate to be very clear today that in the BNG we have, and we will always have the hand to reach agreements, dialogue and solutions that improve the lives of people in this country. But we're already seeing: our tending hand always has as an answer to sovereignty; the pride of those who think they're always right, even though the data, lords of the People's Party, show that they leave us a worse Galicia. And that's why today's Greek change is on. [[Applause]] It started the countdown for a change of government in Galicia that we aspired to lead from the BNG, from humility, but from country ambition. Because there are moments when nothing seems to change, but in which, in fact, there is a deep motion of substance that anticipates a change of cycle. [[Applause]] And this has happened many times in history. It happened when the first suffrageists defended women's right to vote; a wave of change which it took to arrive, but arrived. I never forget that I am in this rostrum thanks to all the women who have fought before. It happened when Rosa Parks said he didn't move from his seat on that bus in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1955. It seemed nothing happened, but a year later racial segregation in public transport in the United States was abolished. Much closer to us, it happened with the immense social mobilization of Never More; a wave of change took time to see it, but it arrived. It also happened with the 15M, which called into question the 78th regime. He went through the massive 8M demonstrations in Galicia, and today feminism marks the political debate. It has passed on to social mobilizations for the planet, especially young people, and today no one questions climate change from a position of scientific rigor. He went through the revolt against the predatory wind boom, with thousands of active people all over the country defending a fair and sustainable energy model. Someone may think they won't make it, but I want to remind them that David defeated Goliath.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u12	And it happened when on the election night of the French elections of 2020 citizenship left in the hands of the BNG the enormous responsibility of leading the alternative of change in Galicia. That seed of change was planted on July 12, 2020, and that's why today the People's Party represents the past and the BNG represents the future; the future of all Greeks and Greeks who want to build a better Galicia, a large Galician in which to live and work, where we have the right to dream and make our dreams come true; a Galician government and a free-handed president to improve people's lives. [[Murmurs.]] That's the Galician one who comes, unstoppable, thanks to the strength of all the people who carry this country, Galician, not only in the head but also in the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u14	Mr President of the House, Mr candidate for the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are accompanying us in this important parliamentary session. [[Laughter]] This is certainly one of those great occasions, not exempt from solemnity, in which society can counteract the essential and central role that Parliament in Galicia occupies in our democratic system. Democracy — as the great Amartya Sen always reminds us, most worthy of the last Prince of Asturias of Social Sciences — is neither uniquely identified with the idea of the rule of the majority. Democracy certainly brings the right to vote and the right to election results; it is even more than a system that guarantees the exercise of individual rights and freedoms. Democracy — Sen recalls — is "a demanding system and not only a mechanical condition" — as mentioned by most — "insulatedly." Democracy is a form of government — Sen argument — that enriches people and society because it provides intrinsic values in itself, such as the need for political participation and in common affairs, the instrumental value of strengthening attention to the demands of citizenship at every historic moment, and because it has the important constructive role of setting priorities for political action through open and public debate. And there are few occasions like in an investment debate, where you can visualize this essence of democracy. They certainly play the majority, which steals from the vote with which we will legitimize the change in the Presidency of the Union this morning, but it also allows us to see how it is through the participation of the electors through their representatives who materialize the election of the President. Because, as Article 15 of the Statute does, the presentation of a government programme, the focus is precisely on the needs and demands of citizenship, and finally, because through this rationalised debate in forms, the candidate — the next president — has an excellent opportunity to listen to and debate with the opposition — although better, after listening, it would be to talk about the oppositions — about the priorities of the political action he will develop during his term of office. The previous considerations, ladies and gentlemen, are not theoretical elubrations aside from the debate we are holding today, they allow us to frame it just in full democratic normality; that institutional normality in which Galician politics has, fortunately, been installed more than a decade. In those times where we are everywhere watching the deterioration of democratic institutions, in which the populisms of all kinds degrade the main institutions, even in democracies par excellence, such as English or American; or, in the case of Spain, before intense actions limiting the rights of citizens during the pandemic, subsequently declared unconstitutional, all these facts lead to loss of confidence in democratic institutions. And that's why the institutional stability we enjoy and the trust of our citizens in it is possibly one of the best inheritances the candidate receives. Thus the witness, without going further, the broad inquiry that has just published the Catalan International Institute for Peace and ESADE on polarization and coexistence in Spain: the citizen’s mistrust in the Government of the nation has increased considerably, to the point that 47% of the population does not trust their executive anything, being the only level of government that suspends in all autonomous communities. With regard to governments and autonomous institutions, the report highlights — and I quote from it — that "there are two regions, Galicia and the Basque Country, where the level of confidence exceeds the approved level." "Heterogeneity between autonomous communities in the degree of institutional trust is especially marked with regard to the evaluation of self-governments, because there is more than one point of difference between the average confidence in Catalonia -- which has the lowest, the 4.1 -- and the 5-15 -- and the Basque Country -- the 5.3 -- which have the highest. I suppose — although in any case it may be a lot to suppose — that data such as those mentioned should be received with satisfaction by all groups of this House. Self-government institutions, after 40 years of self-government exercise, are perfectly consolidated and positively valued by the vast majority. After the greatest economic crisis since the end of World War II and after the worst health pandemic suffered from the first, it does not seem to be a bad balance. But if there is anything we can learn from the alien experience and from our own experience during the past economic and health crises that we suffer and that continue to cause effects between us is that democratic institutions need to look after them, that we must protect them, and that is a common task for all of us: the Government, the majority that supports it and, of course, of all the parliamentary groups of this House. And that's why I can't help but remind the members of the opposition—or rather, of the oppositions—the lessons that Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, the famous polythologists who wrote the book about the death of democracies; a book that occupied a poetic place in demonstrations against populist drifts in some countries in South America. Democracy — from them — is based on a set of constitutional norms that must be respected, but also by moderate use, by the restraint in the exercise of powers that these institutional standards give to political leaders, including those of the opposition. Because, ladies and gentlemen, few more normal and institutional things can be done in a parliamentary democracy than the election of the President of the Government - in this case of the Union - in his Parliament, which represents citizenship; let us say that, as is the case, the choice even if it has to produce among those who have been elected as representatives to have a seat in this House. And few things can be considered more normal in a parliamentary democracy than, in the event of having to replace a president, its vice president being elected. And all of this in a context where, unlike the one that happened on other occasions that are very close to us -- some that are already away from time and others very recently -- the change in the direction of the Executive takes place without changing parliamentary arithmetic. This House today responds — as it will do tomorrow and every day until the end of the legislation — to exactly the same arithmetic, to the same election result in July 2020. There is, at last, a replacement in the Presidency of the Union within democratic normality and giving continuity to the clear mandate that we receive from the Greek citizenship, not yet crossed the equator of the legislation. Faced with this obvious normality, what do we hear of the opposition today — of the two oppositions? First of all, they have qualified the replacement of the Presidency of the Union — and I quote literally — as "illelegitimate". On April 9, Mrs. Pontón questioned the legitimacy of the candidate for the Chair of the Union because he was the result of a "debate" and had not presented himself as the head of the cartel. He repeated it today. More recently, in an interview at La Voz de Galicia, he said that "we will have for the first time..." — as he reiterated today —...a president who did not choose as such the Greeks and who does not cease to be an accidental president." With a certain surprise for some — at least for those who speak to them, because it is not a critical political force with our institutional system — socialists followed and deepened this line of argument. On April 19th, the socialist spokesman in the Chamber called it "a fraud for the Greeks and the Greeks; a far-reaching decision based on the will of the Greeks and the Greeks." And a few days later, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party of Galicia — who is accompanying us today — the President of the Parliament and Mayor of the Bridges, declared — correcting more prudent statements by his spokesman after the round of consultations by the President of Parliament — that they would vote — literally — against a candidacy which is absolutely legal, but which lacks the legitimacy of the support of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly legitimate, even thanks, that the opposition — or, as it may be more accurate, the two oppositions — in this House denies its support for the candidate for investment. But you will agree with me that it is one thing to question the candidate's program and another very different one to question the legitimacy of a candidate who will be elected with all the legitimacy given to him by the Constitution, the Statute and the vote that we will hold this morning. The legitimacy which is ultimately given to you by the very sources of democratic legitimacy with which Mrs Pontón and Mr Álvarez represent their constituents in this House - and which, of course, Mr Formoso is not equipped until the honourable Member arrives -. [[Applause]] Subverting the legitimacy of representation because of a supposed lack of direct validation of the electoral body is either not understanding our system or, worse, intentionally undermining it in the face of public opinion. And one can understand — as much as he does not share — the question of the legitimacy of this plenary to elect the new president on the part of the Block, who is now — we have seen him again — in full programmatic regression to his sovereign origins. But it is more difficult to understand the followers of the Greek socialists towards this delegitimation, not of the candidate, but of the system itself, making it clear that there is a discrepancy between what is legal and what is legitimate in a constitutional democracy and that it would rule as ours, in a party, of course, that has always been recognized - and we recognize today with justice - as one of the main actors in the configuration of our institutional framework. This disqualifying follow-up to the BNG, which delegitimizes the democratic institutions of Galicia and not the candidate, adopts more comical dyes when referring to the process too democratic, in this case, through the internal democratic channels of the People's Party and the parliamentary group to elect the candidate who, as a spokesperson, had the honour to propose to the President of the House. Both the spokesperson for the Socialist Group and its general secretary should have seemed gentle to them the "debate" qualification used by Mrs. Pontón — who we know is owned by the Mexican Revolutionary Institutional Party, which is why Mrs. Pontón uses it—well besides the Galician People's Party, to supposedly improve it with a reference to the decision taken by four barons—barons with "b", since they were actually 3 barons and a baroness—in a "mesa camilla". [[Murmurs.]] There is no need to paint many canes or to be very positioned in the history of Galeguism and nationalism to know that in his history Galicia has only one "bed-bed"; the one in which, at his home in rue Xelmírez, in Santiago, he called so many left, center, right, around Ramón Piñeiro; that camel table that, in a memorable article — in which he missed an explicit mention at the table in the communiqué laudatory of the Academy after deciding to dedicate the day to Don Ramon in 2009—, writer Manuel Rivas called "cosmic table", the only gale table that deserves to be "in the museum of objects with gold"; "the epicenter, the geodesic point, the launch of a rebirth in the darkness". A rebirth based on the "most autonomous democracy in Europe" equation; the equation in which the Galeguists have coincided since forty years ago Albor has been elected the first democratic president of Galicia; and precisely for that reason, the equation that has always denigrated those of the Galego Nationalist Block, which still continues to be intertwined with its particular Galician equation equal to the colony, like the most anti-Atlantic anti-Europeanism, as well as self-determination. And it's just that even to choose metaphors, Mr. Álvarez, you have to have something, if not of memory, at least of fortune; and the "mesa camilla" was very unfortunate coming from the Socialist Party of Galicia. Because, ladies and gentlemen, why does the opposition — or should it be better to say the oppositions — to make these criticisms that go from the desperate desilitant to the irrisory, going through the ignorance of the central foundations of our parliamentary democracy? They do it because we have done things well, in parliamentary forms, but also with an internal demonstration of responsibility and unity. Of course, they do not expect from our party that 40% of the militancy left the assembly after our congress, nor do you expect that one of the previous leaders of the People's Party will set up a party to compete with the one who did so. [[Applause]] But not only in form, but also in the background, in relation to individual and collective decisions adopted. Because the fact that President Feijóo changes his destiny to continue serving Galicia and Spain from another important responsibility, leading the alternative to the current government—backed by the friends of the Block—you know that it is good for Galicia but bad for your interests. It's good for Galicia that the leader of the parliamentary opposition in Spain takes Galicia in the head and exercises, as he has shown enough since the first day, that leadership permeated with Galicianism and respect for the autonomous state, for the autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and for its plurilingual and cultural reality. This is negative for the interests of the BNG, which will hardly be able to continue to affirm — as some of the members of the nationalist group often do — and considering that Galicia is a colony, because this would imply recognizing that the colonized citizen goes on to direct the metropolis, which has never been seen in the history of colonialism and imperialism. [[Applause]] And it's negative for the BNG because Núñez Feijóo's candidacy is to see that Spain is a politically decentralized and federally cut state; federal states in which it is normal for national leaders to have played the presidency of states before. They think four of the last eight presidents of the United States were prior governors in their respective states and five of the seven chancellors from Adenauer were previously presidents of some kind in Germany. It turns out, logically, that anyone who proclaims himself a sovereign doesn't understand that one can work for Galicia also since the Government of the Nation. It is also negative for socialists who, far from appreciating the very nature of federalism with the decision taken by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, although they have tried to do it not long ago on two occasions with Mrs Díaz and Mr Bono, criticize him simply for the fear that they feel that the generalized distrust of the current Government of Spain to which I have made reference can be translated into the loss of power once Alberto Núñez Feijóo represents a constitutional alternative, sensible, moderate and reasonable, assessed by a supported management mostly on four occasions. They're opposed because this operation is basically a symptom of their failure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made an exemplary, legitimate transition, which nestles and reinforces the systemic character of the federal court of our State of Autonomy, and which will benefit Galicia especially if, as we wish and work from the People's Party of Galicia, in the next general elections success accompanies our already national candidate and still fellow in the People's Group. Frankly, I doubt that there are many Greeks, except for the strictest militants, who do not recognize that for Galicia and Spain it would be good for the Greek who probably knows the country better, their people and their needs can assume the leadership of the Government of the Nation. And no one, not even the most convinced, can deny the fact that there could hardly be better coordination with which he's been working for more than 13 years. "The tile, please, for Mr. Bloc, because they said we were nervous and it seems that it is what is not contained." [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] More reasonable, although also perfectly negligible, are other criticisms that we have heard over the past few weeks, and today in this session, concerning the management carried out by governments headed by Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the criticisms made to the candidate's program, to which I shall refer below. Of course, and in addition democratically thank you, the investment candidate has made a balance of what has been achieved so far. First of all, because it's part of that balance sheet and because, contrary to what you're saying, against these catastrophic speeches, it throws some data that, for those who have been involved in the policy developed in recent years, are sufficient reason to justify the time spent in this profession. Secondly, because, without knowing where we're going and what situation we're in, without having a true diagnosis of the situation, any government program is more illusory than exciting, by using another expression to use Mrs. Pontón. We share the diagnosis made by the candidate. We applaud the proposal to give you a new impetus to the programmatic actions supported by the autonomous elections and the planned actions, without going further, in the reactivation plan approved by this House. We praise the method chosen to implement them: dialogue and institutional cooperation between administrations, political groups and economic and social agents. And we share your intention to act in a coordinated manner with the long-term objectives set out in the Strategic Plan Galicia 2020-2030, which will soon enter the House and will show, once again, who has strategic vision of the country and who does not; who has the ability to program actions directed at the search for results that we link together and who, on the contrary, is limited to proposing technical and legal measures that are irreversible, attempting to illusion, but generating mere illusions. In his speech, the candidate made clear the priorities of his government: continuing with the recovery of the economy and employment and taking measures that, while driving growth, contribute to correcting the problems faced by families, with fiscal and social policies directed to their well-being. By following your right approach to intervention, let me first of all refer to the economy. We have been living a very worrying time in the economy. After overcoming the financial crisis started in 2008, linking several years of growth in GDP and employment, and convergence in wages and per capita GDP — Galicia was the second autonomous community that increased its per capita GDP in the period 2009-2020 — the pandemic brought new complications. The paralysis of production processes and international trade has caused a crisis of supply, with a perfectly evident price rise before the condemnable—no nuances—invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which has accentuated the inflationary process to figures not seen in decades, indeed in previous times, to monetary integration — which reduces the margin of action through that instrument of economic policy, which is the banking issuer. The inflation we are suffering from is supply, caused by the depletion of markets, and particularly by the rise in energy prices, accentuated in Spain by hasty decisions in relation to the energy transition. And it is important to understand this nuance: inflation is primarily cost and not demand. It's not about families having more money and collapsing markets buying products. In contrast, the demand for consumer goods is being contained, the problem is that prices rise and many of them are basic, like bread or gas oil, and families can't stop consuming, even if it's to a lesser extent and yet they have to face these new prices. The obvious result is that they lose purchasing power. Precisely, the changes in the institutional framework with which we address this inflationist spiral allow us to see what role each institution should play. The Central Bank and the European Union are perfectly combining the delay in raising interest rates with investments through the next generation-European Union funds. It is up to the states, on a second level, to take advantage of the opportunities that Europe offers us, with a monetary policy that undermines indebtedness and a broad investment policy, which I have just mentioned. We find ourselves here with a first trap: slowness and lack of programming by the Central Administration for rapid use of funds. The Banco de España had already, before the invasion, reduced the expected growth of GDP as a result of its low execution in relation to the forecast. And the situation continues to be of award-winning slowness. With regard to the PERTs, which are fully centralized – with the invaluable help of Vox –, it is enough to point out three facts: Only 14% of the 33.700 million earmarked for the nine PERTEs already approved have been translated into calls; that is, 33 billion, only 4,000. Second. After requesting a priority of the most important proposals put forward by each community, the Government of the United States commanded the three and that of the State has not yet answered. In fact, the textile fiber factory, for which an investor has already been found and a technically viable location, is still not sure what PERTE is going to welcome. And third, also after including among the priorities the one predicted by Stellantis Vigo - one of the most competitive factories in Europe - it turns out that the PERTE of the automobile made public according to Stellantis itself does not allow you to opt for its connected electric vehicle project, which aggravates the situation created by Vigo's non-connection to the high voltage electrical network. And in this general context it should be emphasized, as the candidate did, that Galicia, with healthy accounts, has increased less debt between 2009 and 2021 -- the community that has increased its debt the least, even though you keep saying that we are indebted; we owe 7.4% of GDP less than the measure of autonomous communities; when you left the Government we were above the average of autonomous communities -- Well, we have a margin of action and certainly within these margins of action, there is fiscal policy. The downside of the IRPF that the Government of Spain should do for its immediate translation into retentions, and therefore would come into operation now, Galicia can do nothing more than in the medium term. And we're going to do it because, precisely that's what allows the costs for employers in wages not to rise, but rather to raise the income available to people who receive those wages. So it's good for families and it's good also to contain inflation. They think that, as AIREF has said recently, for each inflation point, it is EUR 2 billion extra for the state, and what we are saying is that the State assumes some of these benefits by leaving them in the hands of families. Of course, the candidate made a fencapé on which it's on the side of the expense where we have more capacity to act to solve the problem situation that many are going through. And I would also like to point out, in the face of the denialist speeches, that of the 16 measures demanded by this House to counter the economic effects of the invasion of Ukraine, eight are already published in the Official Journal and four need not be published. Some are, by the way, like direct support for the 127 public transport concessions or the Social Thermal Bond, accessible on their websites, and only four are yet to be brought to the Official Journal. In the field of public services, it is important to highlight the programme presented by the candidate, first of all, the advances announced in education. I was saying a few minutes ago that there is balance data that justifies and compensates for dedication to politics. Among them are the improvements of our education system. The Ministry of Education has just confirmed that our education system is the most inclusive of Spain, 4 points above the second autonomous community, and more than 10 points above the average. We have surpassed the Spanish and OECD averages in all quality parameters, according to the PISA report, and school dropout has been reduced since the Bipartite ruled from 25.8% to 8.1%. And families who make the effort to register their children at the university pay the lowest rates in all of Spain. But perhaps the main contribution to education and equal opportunities in access to employment is advancement in vocational training. There are about 50% more people enrolled in vocational training than in 2009, despite the fall of the population at the age of training. New cycles and new masters were launched, embedded in the productive system of the territories, and in the emerging sectors, such as artificial intelligence. As a whole, the employability of vocational training is 85%; a solid basis on which the candidate included further progress in his programme: in the field of school coexistence, in the drive of dual vocational training, in the creation of the Galego Centre for Innovation in Vocational Training or in the consolidation of the research career. We can say something like this about health care, because, far from its catastrophic speech, the fact is that public health has improved over the last few years in all parameters: infrastructure, new innovative treatments, resources and also in professionals, as there are 17% more professionals in public health than in 2009. What has been reduced was pharmaceutical spending, despite the unconstitutionality that the Socialist Party presented to us. Of course, all these improvements are behind data such as those we are familiar with, for example, waiting lists, where we have a balance of the best of all autonomous communities; or, much higher, by the way, to Mr. Torrado's admired Asturias; or, without going further, with the lowest mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants after a pandemic. Which doesn't mean we never forget the 3,407 dead by her. A solid basis on which the candidate has advanced new measures, such as the extension of the vaccination calendar with the incorporation of three new vaccines, which will make Galicia the autonomous community with the fullest vaccination calendar, or culminating in primary care reform. [[Applause]] Because it's true, as the candidate announced, that there is margin to improve the management of primary care with new specialist optional squares, with a more improved use of telemedicine and the integration of all information on the health card, strengthening the autonomy of the centers, by wage improvement of the efforts of primary health care personnel... but, gentlemen, no traps are made to the solo, because that doesn't solve all the problems of primary care. It is necessary for the Socialist Government to authorize more MIR training, it is necessary that emergency and family squares be convened separately and the convening of an extraordinary family MIR would be appropriate. In this area, we are given up with the commitment made by the candidate in his speech: the commitment to train and hire all the medical family medicine specialists who allow us the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] Similarly, on the solid basis of a social policy that allows that since you have ruled over from 14,000 to 63,500 dependents attended, that we have multiplied by seven since you ruled the beneficiaries of home aid or increased exponentially - because of that they did not exist - the birth aid, there is a solid base that translates into lower rates, from then on, the state average and even the European average, both in social exclusion and inequality, that makes the announcements made by the candidate, such as the 2,000 new public squares in residences, publicly funded - and the innovative but necessary preferred and customised care policy of the autonomous administration for people over 65 years old. All this is done evaluates the announcements made by the candidate. And Galicia not only relies on the institutional stability needed to guarantee those proposals, but also has the strong political stability that gives you, the candidate, a group you can count on to implement the measures announced. Beyond those already listed at the beginning of my speech, there is another way to distort the debate for which we have been called today. Because today we have been summoned, Mrs Pontón, after finding the Presidency of Parliament the existence of a single majority of support for Alfonso Rueda's candidacy, to debate his investment, that of Mr Alfonso Rueda, and not the program or the investment of any other candidate or candidate. [[Applause]] The opposition, or rather the two oppositions, took advantage of the situation to expose their programs; the programs that the citizenship of Greece, by the way, did not validate in the last autonomous elections. Mrs Pontón came so deeply that I thought she was going to tell us that Mr Rego was going to be the next Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Well, they're on their right, of course, but this acronym what it does is that, fundamentally, the same way these distant relatives do that are invited to a wedding and try to rob the protagonist of who has it and the couple who marry, with that attitude that they are clearly demonstrating is their weakness; a weakness that derives, in addition to the personal attacks we hear of the candidate, from the non-existence, literally, of an alternative to which the candidate has presented. We were not presented with an alternative programme, but two, and also perfectly incompatible with each other in the substantial for Galician citizenship. Mrs. Pontón is proposing a Greek electric tariff and electric taxes. Socialists are accused of making the wind boom and therefore defending the development of the wind sector. The BNG claims, in the field of financing, a special coupon, in the face of all the evidence that even the block experts said at the Autonomic Financing Commission. On the other hand, the socialists are opposed to that. BNG insists on sovereignty, which is qualified by socialists as "ideas of the harmful past for the country." Mrs. Pontón considers NATO to be a belligerent organization, and not the organization that protects us from, now yes, imperialist invasions, such as the one that is suffering from Ukraine by Russia. And finally, espionage, which the socialist minister says is to pursue crimes, turns out it's a persecution of those who think differently. You just told Mrs. Pontón. It is not surprising, therefore, that today they were trying to present their programs using a foreign investment, because they know that none of these programs, even if they had the majority in this House together, would be the program that a voting investment candidate would present from this rostrum. And so they've done something that they know they won't be able to do, really, never. And besides, with that curious and exciting competition to see who would lead a hypothetical and non-existent alternative, the two oppositions in this House have demonstrated their weakness by listing clearly irresoluble proposals; with illusions that, of course, they can only illusion the illusions that it is possible, from Galicia and in the current regulatory framework: to raise taxes to electricity, to create an electric public company or to create an electric tariff. Don't you see the problems Spain has just to regulate the cost of gas? Besides, they'd be ruinous for our business economies, though not as much as if we had an autonomous farm with coupons in particular. To affirm, Mrs Pontón, that 700 million euros would be invested in a shock plan and another 200 million euros in primary care, without even implying where those 900 million euros will be taken from, can only be illusions of the illusions that the money falls from the trees; the same as the socialists, when at the last full we have proposed to devote more than half of the collection of the hydrocarbon tax - more than 255 million euros - to aid for transport, without explaining where they would get that from the vigorous budgets, which have attributed the figures to all kinds of expenditure. Alfonso Rueda's speech, on the other hand, shows the strength of the People's Party and the candidate of the People's Party; the strength that gives us thirteen years of management repeatedly evaluated by most of the Greeks and Greeks, which, if something is not the Greeks and the Greeks, is, precisely, illusory; the strength that gives us the union around the moderate, Galeguist and Reformist ideas that the candidate has presented in his speech; the union around some ideas that the two oppositions today represented in the House, and based on their own internal bias experience, are incapable even of understanding; the strength that gives us the viability of a realistic proposal, framed in the exciting task in which the candidate, and all we accompany him in this walk, are committed: the task of making a better Galicia to live, and contributing to making Spain a better country and Europe a more perfect union. Mr. Candidate, Mr. Rueda, probably the best part of your speech, at least at the trial of this spokesperson, beyond the programmatic impulse, was your claim of everything achieved by the Greeks and Greeks in this fruitful autonomous stage, because it involves the task that will come with the work already done, regardless of who will lead the Union at every moment. Because the vast majority of the Greeks share the fundamentally democratic and dialogueal ideas, reformists, autonomists, Galeguists and Europeanists formulated over four decades ago around the only memorable "mesa camilla" of Galicia's history, which have been proving to be the most suitable to ensure the progress of our beloved Galicia and that you have claimed and updated in your speech, as they did on their day: Albor, Laxe, Fraga or Touriño, and more recently Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to which we have conveyed from this same tribune, once again, our gratitude for your surrender to the country and we reiterate our best wishes for success in the new task that is being undertaken by Galicia's sake and the whole of Spain. [[Applause]] Alfonso, congratulations. Those we've known you for many years know that you bring together the knowledge, experience, will and effort needed to give continuity to the endless project of making Galicia a better country. You're counting on that with the support and loyalty of this majority group; and I'm sure that also with many thousands more Greeks and Greeks, who know that you're going to do your best to succeed in meeting the demands of this parliamentary democracy, as we know you will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u15	Thank you, Mr. Puy. To answer the spokespersons, you have the floor of the candidate for the Chair of the Chair, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u16	Good morning, gentlemen. I greet the guests of the three political groups, the media and also the people who are following us through the different channels. I give you, as a candidate in this investment session, the welcome you all vote for. I've got to tell them I've listened to them very carefully. I'll try to respond to everything the three spokespersons said, because, besides, both the spokesman of the Socialist Party and the spokesperson of the BNG said many things, and some that are not true; therefore, I don't think they should stay that way. But the first feeling I get, honestly, is that you -- I think you already knew, you'd just subtract this investment session because you said it at least last week, when I was proposed by the President of Parliament, and much earlier -- you said what you said, they would say no. But I say one thing: I do not refuse to try to convince them, and through you, to the rest of the Members and Members who form their groups, and also through you, all over the world. It's my mission! That's what this investment session is for, and of course, I'm going to try to do it, although I guess I won't be very successful. I think the general impression -- I insist, not the one now, although the one now, too, without any doubt -- is that they're installed in the not. The only thing they knew to say -- at least I felt it, and I suppose a lot of people -- is no, say it, even before they heard me; they said it before Tuesday's speech and said it now. I honestly think it's not a good posture, and I think Galicia deserves something more than listening to politics and policies torn apart from it. I can tell you that both I and my government and my group Galicia are going to tell you yes, yes! [[Applause extended.]] And, said this, Mrs. Pontón, spokesperson for the Block, welcome you to your virtual investment of the worlds of Yupi that you have just set up. Honestly, I hope you enjoy it, really. I hope you enjoyed it because, in the end, I didn't want to add anything, but I'm adding it now: the candidate is me. You can come here and make an election results speech that we can then talk about. In any case, let me tell you something that is calling me very much attention and drawing attention to a lot of people. Because you insist a lot and, in the end, your lettuce is to talk about the old and the new. Mrs. Block Spokesman, I think the medible is not opinable. Let me give you some data, which you're sure you won't like, but that's true. By setting examples that everyone can know: when Mrs Merkel, who has already retired from politics, entered the German chancellorship, you were already a Member. And, speaking of Jacob -- which is also something that I know they especially like, and this data hardly knows, because it was a long time ago -- of Jacob from the beginning of the century, when the Board made a video and Ronaldiño -- that at that time was very fashionable -- broke the cathedral crystal, you were already a Member. And by continuing with the football similes, when Messi — speaking of another rolling star — began in professional football, you were already a Member of Parliament. [[Laughter]] And when I gave my daughter the bottle, who was one year old and is now in college, you were already a Member, Mrs. Pontón. You were already a Member! [[Applause]] So what's he telling us? And look, I'm going to tell you one thing, since the most absolute cordiality. This Saturday I will take possession as President of the Council of Galicia, and this Saturday you will take 6,144 days as a Member in this Parliament, telling everyone that it has been a long time in politics and lists that have lost the elections. 6.144 days! For me it will be my first day, exciting as president of the Galician Union. I don't change for you, honestly; I don't change for you [[Applause]] And look, I don't aspire -- God free me -- to be the ideologist of BNG. Anyway, you keep insisting. After eighteen years with you at the front - not at the front, with you always present in your formation - if the thing is to say who's been and who hasn't, you too! I'm saying it's hard to advise them there. In any case, what I'm going to recommend to you is a little bit more humility. That wouldn't be wrong. [[Murmurs.]] Look, most of the Greeks have -- there's no more to see when elections are called -- a pretty clear opinion about that nationalism that invades, that oppresses, that gives flesh to who is, who is, who is, who is, and who is not, Greek. We're going to have a pretty clear opinion. There's like a cristcation that you sometimes want to implant in the street and that you want to move to this Parliament, and the Greeks have a pretty clear view of it. I don't know if this triumphalism that is now spent comes from some unknown data and that they perceive no more than you or if you finally think they've already had enough and believe that after forty years of the Greeks wronging themselves now they're going to change and they're going to start voting. I ask for a little humility, as I said, a little respect. Mrs. Pontón was talking about the last election night. I like you to take the year 2020, because, look, on that election night, the People's Party had 48% of the votes and you had only 23%, you didn't get there. I mean, more than twice, more than twice as many of the Greeks said they preferred the People's Party over the Block. Therefore, Mrs. Pontón, a bit of moisture; I tell you sincerely, a little bit of moisture. [[Applause]] And from there, Mrs. Pontón, this war that you bring to see who is the winner of the losers is one thing that we left with the Socialist Party and that we find very legitimate, but, in the candidate's investment debate the president of the board, that you come with these struggles... I think there are other places, but if that's what you want to do, we hear it very carefully. And with regard to the Socialist Party, Mr. Álvarez, I believe that you - honestly, I am also here to give my opinion - had a more institutional position, more aware of what is being dealt with here today and if you are deciding. And he even spoke of "solden hand" - he also spoke to Mrs. Pontón, after demonstrating the opposite. I'll hold your hand if you really know what you're offering me. I'm sorry to tell you, and with all the cordiality, but I don't even know if I'm talking to the spokesperson, if I'm talking to the leader, to the colider, to the outgoing president, to the incoming president, with whom you last ventilated... it's hard -- and you're a bit of a map and a canteen — to know how the Socialist Party is. Home!, you said, when I proposed to the President of Parliament, that he would listen to me and then decide. Then came Mr. Caballero, Gonzalo, who we don't know what state of transition is in, within the internal struggle they have in the group, and said nothing of it. And then his leader -- the last leader, at least, who they have -- what you presented and what you then gave him the squire, spoke instead of you two days ago, and said that it said nothing, that the Socialist Party was like the Block and said not without hearing. So it's a little hard to know exactly if you can get into agreements with you. I, of course, am willing. When I'm president of the board, I'll listen very carefully. I hope you have a little more, at least, firmness to keep your pledges and commitments than your boss in Moncloa. Listen, there was a conference of presidents just a short time ago and there was a solemn commitment by Mr Sánchez to raise the tax cuts ahead not only of the president of the People's Party and the autonomous presidents of the People's Party, but also before the autonomous presidents of all political parties; absolutely uncompromising commitment. So it's hard to know if you really are, when you talk about holding your hand and when you talk about being positive and reaching agreements, you're serious. Of course, if it is for what they are doing in Madrid, to keep Mr. Sánchez at all costs, to compromise at all costs intolerable assignments that always come to Galicia, for that to me it does not contain, frankly; if it is for anything else, for I take that charming glove. And by the way, I was wondering if I'm willing and if I'm strong for the step I'm taking right now. Absolutely; honest and absolutely excited. I don't know if you know he's the number speaker -- he's been playing the stage -- 9, 10 or 11 -- you have to forgive me -- of the Socialist Party since I've been a Member, which is a long time after the time since Mrs. Pontón has been. So, of course, I say to him: I take this step because I am very proud of the step he takes at his turn who is President of the Board right now, who is Alberto Núñez Feijóo; a step that asks many people and a step that will take him to the Moncloa, without any doubt. [[Applause]] You give it another reason, I think a little less elegant, which is that they had the worst mess, they had to re-choose, after they chose a leader, they changed... you touched him, and who put him on the list spreads it and is now sitting there. I have a lot of respect for him, and I ask him to have me, too, because I think we have to try our best; I, of course, will try. I can tell you that I wish you good luck in your new duties, because it's also important that you succeed. But don't have any doubt that I have this here with the best honor in the world and, therefore, with their hand. I listened to you and your head of line, also to Mrs. Pontón, your comments -- that, of course, they have to do and their ratings -- from Tuesday's speech and say that they didn't like anything about the topics I raised, the axes on which I wrote my speech. Look: work, family and future. I heard, when I said so, some laughter around there and some... you don't understand anything at all. I don't know exactly what they think are the priorities, what people we care about, what they want the Greeks and the Greeks we really deal with. I sincerely believe that these are very broad concepts where everything belongs. By the way, I don't know what tea they have with the family. They say: you think there's only one kind of family, you don't understand. We understand that there are a lot of family types. You can each live as you like, you can establish the family you want and you can organize your life as you want, and as long as you don't understand it, you won't understand anything. [[Applause]] You will understand nothing, neither Mrs. Pontón nor Mr. Álvarez. [[Applause]] And it's hard to understand that. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You must think that people don't want us to talk about how to create more and more jobs, better quality and better conditions. They must think that people don't want us to actually talk about how we can, from administrations and, of course, from the Unity of Galicia, look after people; as I said in my speech, from cradle to cane: when they are young, when they are children, when they are parents and when they are, or when we are, grandparents -- what they decide to be. People want us to talk about it, and the opposition doesn't want us to talk about the project we have for Galicia tomorrow, which, in fact, is boosting our productive tissues, helping those who were very powerful, and now too — for many things you're doing from Madrid, you running them and the Block supporting them — are seriously putting at risk the fundamental productive sectors for Galicia, our leading companies, our natural environment. People want us to talk about all that, and I was about what I wanted to talk about and what I tried to talk about; and, of course, what I'm going to dedicate to when I'm president of the board. You'd probably prefer that we talk about other things. Of spies we're not going to talk, I'm telling you honestly, it's not the subject. We don't want the diversions of attention, which seems to interest you; here we're going to talk about something else, Galicia is different. Of course, one of my fundamental tasks and objectives is to try, precisely, that all these things, those struggles that you ride in Madrid, here in Galicia, are not arriving, as they have not so far arrived. And I thought they wouldn't appoint -- but they did, and I don't understand, really -- the subject that the president of the board would access the senator's condition. Look, I think this controversy they're trying to mount doesn't believe her or her own affiliates. So, there's a politician, a candidate, who, when asked in the elections, four times, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, if they wanted him to be Galicia's highest political leader, said yes, and now it turns out there's a problem that he's a senator. Look, we all know the causes, we all know the fundamental step and the sacrifice — I said the other day and I say it again — that I know what it does by trying to make the outcome in which we are now in Spain have another course and another possibility. But I am sure that with the new tasks and at the new post Alberto Núñez Feijóo and Miguel Tellado will continue to be servants of Galicia since the Senate. We have to say it, and we'll be very proud of it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, look, you -- the Block -- are talking about internal messes, about camel's tables -- our spokesperson, Pedro Puy, remembered -- you, who had in that famous assemble of Amio -- since they're still recovering and happy every time they get somebody back; they're delighted, they bring them......yes, yes, it's the past of what they tell us every day. [[Speak words that are not perceived. -]] And when someone comes closer, after all that explosion you've had, they're very happy and very happy. And speak of internal struggles from the Socialist Party, as they did these days—he didn't speak today, but he did speak these days—man!... If you put a glass in the place where you celebrated your last choice of leader, you still hear: tongo, tongo, tongo, tongo; and if you put it here in Parliament, you might as well listen: tongo, tongo and tongo. So, man, be a little careful, and I don't want to look at anyone, because I also have a lot of respect for him. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, we're going to have a congress of the Galician People's Party in ten days, and I can assure you that there's going to be a team united and concerned to claim the project of what we've seen so far and everything we want to do. That'll be an important difference. Just as I thought you wouldn't dare, Mrs. Pontón — but he did — to appoint the war of Ukraine. Sometimes — and I have to say it with all due respect, though you're going to say no and even say that as I dare — that it's better to be quiet, really. After the example they gave at the national level...! At least Mr. Álvarez didn't appoint the war. But, man!, we have seen at national level, Mr. Álvarez, as you, on the one hand, a part of his government, asked for an increase in the costs in defence — which we agree with —; on the other hand, he made a statement of guilty equity, on the other hand, other government ministers themselves of what you are part of, than the maximum responsible for his party is also responsible for that government... well, we have seen those discrepancies, of attacking and comparing the attackers with the defenders. And, well, we saw that of the Block, Mrs. Pontón, that I felt shame as an ally as a Welshman. Indeed, that a representative of Galicia - who, in the end, even though of his party, is a representative of Galicia - is able to deny the applause of those who are playing life for the freedom of a people is truly embarrassing. And you have to say it, and you have to remember it. [[Applause]] And we never hear you condemn him at all. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They also laughed a lot at tax downloads: that if they don't come to the story, that they're a little... Hey, so cheer up, too. Mr. Álvarez - about everything I say for Mr. Sánchez' non-compliance - is all to begin with. They'll try to lower taxes, they'll see how much people appreciate it; they'll see how hard they're trying to do everything otherwise it doesn't take anywhere. The more it takes, the less taxes, the more you pay them, the more you applaud, of course. They just passed the certification of that decree that goes totally against what had to happen right now with the galloping inflation we have. Try that feeling! Of course, if they never do, they can't go accumulating. The cumulative effect is that Galicia is going to be the second autonomous community where the lowest incomes pay less taxes, 25% less since 2009. Try that feeling, come on! They have to support it because, besides, look, it's not just for the lowest incomes -- that too -- but right now there's someone else who needs it, and so it's where we're going to be careful and where we're going to put the most intensity. But by giving him other figures, a German childless contributor, who earns €23,500 a year — there are a lot of people who are in that situation, without children, but at that level of income — see, he already pays 150 euros less — thanks to the discounts that have driven Galician Union these years — that a contributor to the Socialist Government of Asturias. And if you want to go to the nationalists, which are the reference of your fellow blockmates, 180 euros less than a contributor in Catalonia in that situation. Now they understand why they disagree and why they don't like it, why they don't want to lower taxes. Try the sensation! I'm telling you the truth, they taste the feeling. [[Applause]] And, I'm going to try to answer him -- I have to forgive myself, I've been taking note -- I'm going to try. They said a lot of things, some data. You have a problem with the figures, Mr. Álvarez, always reminded Mr. Feijóo and I would remind him again. Either they hurt them, or they're pointing them wrong or directly they know they're lies and they don't even tell them what they're talking about. But this is a parliament. I'd ask for more rigour with the figures. It was much stricter with the figures — and it wasn't very strict — Mr. Knight than you. So who gives you those figures... You have to adjust yourself a little bit to reality because if you don't, if you lose a lot of credibility. And people are watching us, not only listen to me now, but also listen to you when you talk. So, of course, they're talking about, for example, privatizations -- they talked about both -- in health -- look, you know -- well, if you didn't talk about it now, maybe you spoke about it at another time, and then you go through Mrs. Pontón, but you listen, because one of your parties also says it; don't worry that you're going to use this to stay, don't worry. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, pay attention, with all due respect, that I think you're really interested. Because, in addition, it was the Bipartite and there was a socialist president. [[Laughter]] I suppose you'd agree with what they did in the Bipartite. If you don't agree, I'm not telling you anymore, I'm sorry, but I'm sure there are some of you here who agreed. So, look, I'm going to tell you that so much about the privatization of health and concerts, and it turns out that you went up, in just four years of Bipartito, the health concerts by 40%; they went up and spent Sergas -- look it's a respectable amount -- from 5.5% to 6%. We arrived in 2009, we frozen the concerts, and they started down; and from then on, look, we arrived at 2019 with 5.1% — you had 6% — and they voted against it, they opposed an initiative in this Parliament so that it would be this and it would be armoured; they said no. So what are you telling us about the privatizations of health? Or, for example, about the migration balance; the so many repeated lies... they try to make a repeated lie come true, and that's not the case. Look, the migration balance between 2009-2022 - which I suppose will agree with the period in which we have to examine ourselves - is positive in 72,000 people; 347,000 have gone out and 420,000 have entered; 72,000 people, and you want to deny it. I suppose you know that. So why do you repeat it all the time? Why knowing a fact that's not true repeat it to see if people end up thinking things are like this? Do you know what year it was when more young people, by the way, came out? The year 2007. Do you know who was ruling? The Bipartite. 14,000 people! It's good that you put this data in your head too, Mr. Álvarez. It's good that the goal is when they talk about it and when they want to say things that aren't true. Just like the pay gap. Of course there's a pay gap, and of course we have to keep improving in that respect. But, look, we're the sixth autonomous community with the lowest pay gap, which remains very important. The gap between men and women is 19.3%, almost 20%. It's a brutal figure, and you have to keep lowering it. Home!, things like they are, we are, since 2009, the second autonomous community that has further reduced this pay gap, from which I - and I suppose all of you - will feel particularly proud. They also spoke — and I agree because it is a very important issue — about R & D+i. There's something undeniable, first, because it's a matter of country and then there's a lot of our future. But it's no less true that a very important effort has been made, a plan of 500 million and 5,000 researchers and researchers welcomed to it. And three universities are involved, health foundations, all institutes and research agencies are involved. Of course, that's where we're going. We are the fifth autonomous community that cares most about R & D+i, for a fundamental reason, because we know it's the future and because we want researchers to do their job here and the fruits of their work stay here. So here's what we should tend our hands on most, because researchers want to see kind and accessible administrations that support them and value them. And, of course, the Galician Union will. I suppose talking about this always against you won't do them much fun or help anything. They talked about education, too. Home!, the speech was the usual. You're here on the topics, you don't want to see the figures or you want to see what you've done in four years about closing schools, about a lot of things that you now seem to forget. I wanted to give them some figures to make them clear. Look, we have a student-teacher ratio that's Spain's best: 9.2 versus 11.3 on average. One in three children's or primary classes has less than 10 students and 70%, almost 3/4, have less than 20. We are the third autonomous community in educational expenditure. Do you know what the other two are? Basque Country and Navarre. You will agree with me that they do not have the same regime; therefore, this is a very meritorious position. The year 2022 was -- and it had to be -- the year of greater investment: 200 million more than in the year 2021; 2.750 million euros spent on education. I think they're meritorious figures. Of course we need to improve, but I think right now it's to be quite satisfied. And, man, I'm not saying it, you've just been the most responsible here for the elaboration and coordination of the PISA Report, which praised Galicia for several reasons, and you know that this is a report that when you have to pipe it, it also gives it, but when things are done well it does as well. So I'm very proud of how things are done, and you should at least not speak ill of these issues; and, if you're going to speak badly, at least before you know the figures. It may have a political opinion, but — I insist — which is measurable — and in education I think there are a lot of measurable things — it is hardly an opinionable one. There's something you said, Mr. Álvarez, that I was very concerned about and wanted to remind you of. You're not here to clarify anything to me. I'm the candidate. But I want to say it here and I want it to be said, because Galicia will be very pendant. You said, you solemnly proclaimed that the Socialist Party would support the Stellantis Group and support Others. May it be true! Because then -- and I'm really worried about what he said -- he said that, well, the theme of funding was board responsibility and that then, if there's no funding, it doesn't contain anything to you. That's nothing, Mr. Álvarez; that's nothing. Here are European funds where we're playing a lot. Stellantis is absolutely strategic for Galicia. The installation of Others, to which you -- it's true -- did not spend much time on Tuesday -- they didn't spend any time on Tuesday, and today practically nothing -- it's one before and one after for the province of Lugo, for the forest sector in Galicia and for 2,500 families who are going to have a job. So, I ask you, really, from cordiality but also from necessity - and I will be very attentive as President of the Union - very carefully on that subject. We are very concerned to see Mr. Sánchez walk through the Spanish Levante announcing the PERTE in calls that are not yet made, as his express support for enormous amounts of projects that compete legitimately, but compete with Greek projects. So I hope and I ask you to exaggerate your head of rows the same support, the same equanimity and the same objectivity for the Greek projects. I sincerely ask you, and we'll be very careful. [[Applause]] This is not a question of the Galician Union or of the PP, it's a question of Galician, many families, many jobs and many industrial futures. So I, of course, when the President of the Government receives me, I'll take this matter to him, and I'll ask him for no compromise. We don't want more than the rest, but we don't want less, and we want that same support, that same commitment and that same almost surety of funding for all or, at least, that we all compete on equal terms. He was also talking about running a house, I think they said it, or that one of the two said it, too, but this is also something that applies to both groups. They've got the traversed figures again. He says there's a lot of millions left without spending. Apart from the problems we have -- many of them in socialist councils, which are the cities, or the BNG, or where they rule in coalition -- by the subject of licenses, which, as you will know, greatly conditions the execution... No, don't tell me clearly, this is how it is. If you don't get a license, it's very hard. If you want, man, if you give us permission, let's do it without a license, talk to your mayors. Of course, that's not what the Galician Union will do. I say this because this is an issue that sometimes also compromises the execution not only of the dwelling, but of other things. But in any case, look, IGVS report, which is on the Board of Auditors: 80% of the execution in the period 2010-2021; which, if you go to the last five years, is 85%. Both percentages are higher than those reached between 2005 and 2009 by the Bipartisan Government. Here's what's going on. And so, of course, if you're committed to saying that you don't run a house because it's not spent... this is all the opposite. We've taken very important steps. I don't want to give you the figures now because you know them or should know them, but if you don't have the right ones, neither... I can pass them. Many things have been done, also for young people, in housing matters, also for rehabilitation, also in collaboration with municipalities -- where they leave us -- of all political colors; of course yes. And we are aware, in addition, of how society is changing and that now we have to bet also on everything it has to do with renting. So we have to support, above all, young people so they can access a decent housing, and this has a lot to do with the emancipation of young people as well, actually. We have to help them to have a first house in rent, and we're doing a lot of things. I don't want to give you the figures, but I can make them easy without any problems. Mrs. Pontón, look, I'm not capable of... so many times you've talked here about the Welsh electric fare without telling us what it's all about! So many times he spoke here, and now, that we're seeing gross receipts of light, he's telling us again, without specific ever, without telling us that it would happen with the compensations that Galicia is receiving right now with the current system, who would give it, in what conditions, in what terms and how it would impact people's receipt, which is what matters. It doesn't matter to you, because you know it's a proclamation that throws here, that you'll never have to practice, except in your investment in the worlds of Yupi, and then, of course, release it here. But you have to be much more serious, eh! because then these things have to be applied and people take note and can lead to great disappointment. Just like the economic system, the Italian concert. Hey! all experts, including highly recognized left-wing experts, said it would be absolutely harmful to Galicia; that we were supposed to have an even greater amount to stop entering or have to pay EUR 1 billion, nothing more and nothing less. You, as it handles the millions and puts 200 in a place, 200 in another place, the whole network and never says where it's going to get them out of, well, let's also throw them out here from the Greek economic concert as if it were a panacea. And that's nothing. That's the difference that people have to see: as the Block is, as you are. Of course, in so many years of experience, he had moments to mature this many times and, instead, he's always with the same; he's always with projects and formulas that don't go anywhere, and this people are good to know, it's good to see the difference between a government that tries, or we try -- and I think we can -- not lie to people, not to do anything that can't be done, and not to be serious. Maybe that's why we've been here and you for 13 years; maybe that's one of the things. Do you realize? [[Applause]] And look, I'm sure the Greeks who are watching us today and those who are reading in newspapers and in the media tomorrow, what we've been talking about here today will understand that there's a legitimate debate, they'll understand that a lot of things are being said, but also what they want us to say is how we're going to solve the huge and growing problems that we've been having on the table lately. So they wait for constructive proposals, they wait for realistic proposals and they expect us to be useful. I think it's absolutely normal, that's less! There's a lot of trouble, and the difficulties, as I told you, didn't start yesterday, nor did they start the war in Ukraine. You use Mr. Putin as a wild man to explain many things, and obviously the war did not facilitate anything, rather, it made many things worse, but there were many previous problems, eh! We've been suffering from high inflation for a long time, and the central government, without doing anything; they've been getting families' bills from the light increasingly impossible to address, and you're looking to the other side, promising formulas that don't apply or that are useless at all. Businesses, some of the key to the future of our economic fabric, are experiencing crises of supplies that spoil them, which make them difficult, and you, of all they could do at the government level, are not doing anything. So I think that the first thing the citizens need, the harder the situation is, is a sincere government, that's first. People have to look at them face to face, they have to explain what there is, they have to explain what is being done to solve the problems, each in the sphere of their competences. And we all have powers, the opposition too, for example, to not make unreasonable proposals. You don't have to hide the problems, you don't have to try to magnify the facts; propaganda can't everything. So, I think today more than ever, what people are going to ask -- and I have it very clear, because I know where I come from, the government of what I was part of, and I know what I have to do -- it's responsible for governments. Look, I think you've got things. Since 2009 the gross domestic product per capita in Galicia has improved. How won't it get better? We had very complicated times, but we also had moments of economic momentum, and we took advantage of them. And we had the second largest increase in Galicia's GDP. So you have to say, because it explains a lot of things, not only if the board has done it right or has stopped doing it right; this is about the effort of people and families -- almost 20% of the increase since 2009. I think this is meritorious. Why? So I'm telling you, by the efforts of families, by the functioning of the textile sector, which is a pointer, of what we're proud of, of the automobile, of the maritime sector... you still don't understand anything, you keep giving figures that aren't like that, you still don't understand the growth that happened or the problems that they have now, at least what they said. I saw the face of the sea councillor - who I think is of the people who, of course, at the administrative level, know more about this subject - of not understanding anything, just like me, that we don't understand what happened, or what is happening, or the challenges that exist. I know that these figures, these good figures that we've had over these years, are now no kind of comfort to people who are going through it. There are a lot of people -- a lot of people! -- who have lost their jobs; there are strategic industries that did a lot of work in Galicia and that because of their erratic energy policy -- and this has to be said, because they have a direct fault; those proclamations of applying good ideas as elephants in boxing -- because they got to what they got. Today there are companies like Alcoa, like Alu Iberian, like Endesa, in the Bridges, like Vestas -- I named them the other day in my speech -- that they no longer have a future or have a very complicated future. And this has to do with a lot of decisions that you've made to the mad, without thinking, from the central government and without having a party here, neither one called a nationalist nor one who says he has a lot of autonomy -- that's what you said here -- that they were finally able to tell him that he's not going anywhere, but quite the opposite. Now we're seeing the consequences, and the Galician Union, of course, has to do its best for mitigates and to try to bring them back to what we can. The bad thing is we can't do everything we'd like, because we don't have that competition yet. But we're not going to stand still. This erratic energy policy cannot continue to charge for new victims. What we have to do is push them in the part we can, so I told you it's so important. And I'll point to you again, Mr. Álvarez and Mrs. Pontón, be aware that this is a country project. The major projects, which have to be supported by European funds, need the support, push and target of all political forces. So, I tell you, we'll be very careful. And in the meantime, we will continue to consolidate everything that has been done these years. It's strategic, and in the future, the agri-food sector, which you talked about as well. There are companies that are creating a lot of added value and that have the support of the Galician Union: Inleit, Entrepinares, Coren, Acetes April, Estrella Galicia. There are great examples in the conservation sector too. The naval sector, which now has a chance again, has to continue to rebound, has to take advantage of the good time to recover its pull, which opens up in the international market, with the greatest demand for ships. There are key emerging economic spaces that have been very well supported by the Economic Vice-Presidentship: the Aerospace Pole of Rozas, which has a huge future and is being consolidated day by day; the Biotechnological Pole; the Zendal is already a reference. And it has to grow all that much more. Entrepreneurship is fundamental, so we're boosting business accelerators, especially in rural areas. Here are a lot of talented people who want to engage, young people; therefore, we have to be clear that we must continue to support them at the top, in spite of the obstacles that you can put on them with very complicated structural decisions. Because, in addition, this is what translates into good figures in the field of work, and you have to give them too. We have more memberships than in 2009 to Social Security. That's true. Would we like to have more? Yes, but we have more, the balance is positive. And we're in a moment, as I said, very complicated. Today there are 60,000 less in the unemployment line than in 2009. This is another figure that they don't like anything, just like when they talk about the evolution of debt. Well, I think if today they believe or think that someone will believe that if something hasn't done Galicia it is, precisely, to be especially meticulous with the obligation not to be indebted to lose autonomy, as I told them in Tuesday's speech, and not to have to be intervened by the Central Government -- you have to see the nationalists, those who seem to care -- because all this is, precisely, because we don't owe ourselves when that was the easy solution. There are very good figures, record numbers of indefinite recruitment, but not from now on -- I know what they're going to tell me -- no, no, no, during the pandemic, which has increased the indefinite recruitment. That talks a lot about how there were economically sound foundations here. We have -- I was telling you -- the economy of the future, the R & D+i -- I've referred to this before -- because you've done a lot, and I think it's unfair -- at least for the data -- referring to that, which I hope will be answered, and we have a fundamental challenge that I'm very concerned about, and I hope you're worried about, too. Of course, my group and this government are very concerned about it, because this is the great challenge that we are sometimes unable to see, which is all that has to do with the demographic challenge. You were no longer very high when you didn't want the first law to be passed here that was a pioneer to meet the challenges posed by demography, the severe challenges and the very serious problems that not only Galicia, but Galicia, has posed in the demographic issue. They didn't want to support her, and then Castilla-La Mancha arrived, ruled by the Socialist Party, and hey! I'm glad my party was up to it, if I realized that they also had a problem and that, therefore, they had to support it. That's the difference too, which I think is important. But, well, at least we can have the law, and now what we have to do is develop it, and for that I also ask for the support of the whole House here, since the legitimate political discrepancy. This is another country challenge that we should take into account. I mean, they weren't about to pass the law, but I hope they're now about to develop it. And, of course, we'll continue to act. Reconciliation is fundamental. It's just that this law I just referred to spoke a lot about conciliation. It's just that it's the future, that if we don't have a good reconciliation, it's very difficult to deal with, which is changing society, to other kinds of demographic challenges. And we're acting seriously: double squares in children's schools 13 years ago, double squares! It's one of the ratios -- I've said it before -- of higher education in Spain, far above average. And besides, every child school in Galicia will be free from the next course, and this has to be said, because it's very important, it's very important! This doesn't happen anywhere else in Spain; in Galicia, yes it does, and it costs an important effort for the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, but it's worth it, because this is the way. [[Applause]] He called attention to me -- and I'm sorry to say it -- to the joke -- to say it colloquially -- to take up the theme of the camps. At first, they said that young people don't want camps, they want work opportunities. First, you don't know that camps are from 9 to 18 years old; so, finally, you have to know what we're talking about because, if not, you don't explain a lot of things. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Formoso, present here, was very funny. I suppose he has solved the issue of conciliation and he has no problem, but the people who need the camps in the summer to reconcile him very much appreciate it. Let's get in place! Sometimes it's not bad to think that maybe what you don't need one, because it's good for you, most people need it. [[Applause]] We try to do this, and so at least we try to do it right, and I think, given the results, every time we ask these things, which you don't care about, because maybe they don't affect them directly, we hit them, because there are a lot of people that affect them, and so they're looking forward to us being useful, and telling them that by that time we're going to follow. [[Murmurs.]] At the educational level, I told you, what an interest it is to speak ill of education and that the public education system in Galicia is not good! It's excellent. So you don't say it, but it's bad enough that the PISA Report says it! We'll continue there, we'll continue to correct the eves that tell us there, that of course there are, and we'll continue to focus on what we really think is right. We are clear that education for the future in Galicia must have more competences STEAM, it must facilitate the access of young women to areas of training in which there are still not many, there must be more languages, there must be more innovation... we must continue to empower our three excellent public universities, giving them more degrees, with that objective -- which is not a minor issue -- that anyone who wants to study a degree in Galicia, who wants to stay in Galicia, can do it, so that the career he wants to have here. That's very important. And then there's the specialization, the masters and the vocational training, which you don't give any importance to. How do you notice they don't rule! As you can see! You said, "Go out the street and talk to people." Well, look, that's what I did, that's what the Education Advisor did, and that's what the Government did, and that's why we boosted vocational training. You should go out a little more, honestly. [[Applause]] Vocational training is another structural issue. What I call them is the one who realizes that here, in this, Galicia plays very much. We need to stimulate the boys and girls who study what they want, but also those who see the vocational training and the immense work opportunities that it gives right now as an opportunity to develop Galicia as well, and to make a good connection with businesses. That dual FP has more and more power in Galicia. They're setting us up in eight places. Keep it going, that's important, and they didn't give him any importance, either early or today. Well, for us and me, of course, I can tell you that it's going to be very important. And, of course, at the health level, how many lies and songs of demagogy — I'm sorry to say to you — they've come to terms with excellent Greek public health!, that this is the first. What a great deal of bad speech about Greek public health! This hurts a lot. Of course there are things to improve, of course, but what do you think we don't know? But if we've been trying and improving our health for 13 years! We are perfectly aware of the problems, challenges and difficulties that exist right now. We know it perfectly well. Of course, here, Mrs. Pontón - especially you - you have again released the 200 million euros, but it doesn't say why, or exactly how it's going to do. You pull from that drawer, from that gale concert, which for you is wonderful, and says that all the public health problems in Galicia are solved with money, but not to say that it will invest them. To begin with, those 200 million have already been invested. They invested 200 million euros more in primary this year than last year. That's the first. You, as you don't know -- and, if you know, you don't care, or you don't care -- that's the first thing I have to tell you. Now, there are things you can't do with money. Why don't you take advantage of that influence, that independence, and that decision-making capacity that you are so presumptuous to talk about Galician issues? Ladies and gentlemen of the Block, who only sees you in front of the Government of Madrid, why don't you take advantage to tell the Ministry of Health, to tell Mr. Sánchez, to let us make that call of 64 doctors of extraordinary MIR? Why don't you say that? [[Applause]] Why don't they? It's as simple as that. Is this going to solve all the problems of primary? No, but I was going to help. But we can't do it. Why don't they tell you to remove these limitations from the replacement rates? But if we're gonna take care of it! What an effort and a bite! Why aren't they able to pass on to them -- which I suppose they will understand -- the need to create that emergency medicine specialty that would have such an impact on the distribution that is now made even by the professionals who opt for primary medicine? Why don't they do all that? Why don't they do a service to the country and realize that this is not the interest of the People's Party or even the interest of the current Government of the Union? It's in Galicia's interest, and we'll start solving many issues. And all of that would be added to the efforts already made. Look! they just don't want to see that the Greek hospitals have, are having and will have -- they haven't finished all this process -- a huge investment that's turning them into absolutely point hospitals. It's not to want to see reality; it's not to want to see it or see it and want to deny it, for the sake of politics, of course. It is not to want to see that health centres are opening up, that there are improvements that are being made, that there is a very important effort being made in recruitment, that we are doing everything possible and that a huge effort has been made during these years of pandemic thanks to the excellent public health that we had. You don't want to see it, you don't want to see it! [[Applause]] And if you think that trying to talk about health with utopias, with milongas, with things that you know you won't be able to be, without serious talk - that to speak seriously we'll always be willing - if you solve a lot more... it's the minimum political income that doesn't take you anywhere. They've been doing it for many years! And you see how you are and how the Greeks are every time they ask them who wants them to continue ruling. So, I would also ask you here for a country pact, talk seriously and fix problems, that there are, and I don't deny them, we never deny them, but, of course, what you can't do is tell people or things that aren't there, or tell those realities, or, above all, do nothing about the solutions that we had before and that don't depend on us. Don't worry that as soon as we can make these decisions at the national level, I'm sure we'll make them. In the meantime, time passes, and therefore we try to get these solutions done by now. So I also ask them to make a special effort. Like they say we don't do anything about youth. I think in my speech I gave him an important part. One of the three laughs when I was talking about youth. I've seen laughs around... that you're the ones who divide the meats, the only ones who understand everyone, the only ones who know the needs. It's nothing, young people have a lot of needs, young people are present and it's future, and we're doing a lot of things, even though we have to do a lot more. The first and fundamental - that you forget many times, when you make such separations in society; nationalism always separates everything, and you don't realize that this is not so - is that the secret is to mix and we are a united society. So we want to make that bridge that unites the illusion, the impulse of new people, the wisdom and experience of older people. This is fundamental and this, of course, is what we're going to do, and so we fight a lot of things, like the precariousness at work. The figures have greatly improved, fortunately, with regard to youth unemployment and the rise in wages, but they still need to improve much more. We're perfectly aware that emancipation is still a problem, like? I think we've all seen it closely or known cases very closely, and therefore they don't have to tell us absolutely anything about it. That's why we focus on housing, that's why we focus on opportunities, that's why we want to give these incentives to recruitment, that's why we want not to put so many difficulties in place, and that's why we want the leading, structural Greek companies to have a future, and they don't have to close up for their energy decisions, which there are also a lot of new people working and a lot of new people who want to stay in Galicia. Of course, we'll continue to work on the dependency: 2,000 new squares in this legislation. You laugh a lot, and you seem to get investment from people, like the Amancio Ortega Foundation -- who wants to leave his footprint in Galicia and who wants some of its benefits to remain on the ground, from whom you started it all here -- you give them a lot of laughter, it seems that they want to disqualify it and that that's not worth it. Well, it's worth a lot, and it's going to be almost a thousand new residences, which will be added to what we're already doing. This is fundamental. So welcome to be that growth, which is fundamental and what people are asking for. Look, the percentages between what you left us and what we now have are gross, also in public care, also in dependence. What's going to happen with the 2,100 million euros already owed to us by the state -- not only are they from its government, but over the past three years, it has greatly increased the debt that the state has to pay Galicia attention to dependency -- We're doing it, and you're not entering a euro. Here we have to report other things, but the money that doesn't reach the dependents because the central government doesn't pay, that didn't deserve -- nor when they made that famous pact yet without developing -- nor put it there, and it's very important. Just as it is important - we agree - to speed up the whole issue of valuations. And, indeed, another fact that doesn't do well - and I doubt they don't know it, but if they don't, in fact, I already tell them - is that we have greatly increased evaluation teams, that we have reduced waiting times by 25% - that's almost fifty days - and that we simplify the procedures. What's to keep getting better? Of course, but this is fundamental, and we have it very clearly. How good it would be if it would also complement the funding that the Central Government owes us! And, of course, we want to continue to be leaders in renewable energy, because of the many impediments you vote for. Mrs. Pontón, the spokesperson for the Block, spoke several times about this subject, always to tell us that she doesn't like what is being done, but never to tell us how she would do it. That of "in Galicia yes, but not so," is a very sentence of the Block that only it does is paralyze things and not move forward. Look, this is a strategic theme. We know how you spend them on renewable energy, in the wind sector. If they want, we remind you again, Mrs. Pontón - that you were, therefore, sure that you recognize it and remember it perfectly - those discussions that were about the first wind plan of the Bipartite; that star plan that ended starry and that caused a rare suspicion and a discussion between the socialist side - that at that time was more part than ever - and the part of the BNG, which were more separate than ever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That was a national scandal and paralysed and made things much more difficult for us when we arrived to give him that fundamental impulse and that needed the wind sector in Galicia. But, of course, we're going to continue to do it; we're going to continue to bet on wind, land and sea, on green hydrogen, on biogas and on all those energies that in Galicia have so much future and we're not going to give up. And thank you very much for making that allusion to Jacob. They don't like anything we're talking about. BNG directly bothers him, as well as the Socialist Party. Honestly, I don't think they give him how important he is. I'd tell them to talk to the socialist mayors about what the Way is going through and that in one way or another they are being benefited, to give you the importance it has, but no longer intrinsically about what GDP is supposed to be, which can assume up to a point -- and that's a lot of money -- but because it's about Galicia, for the sake of what it talks about us, about the position it puts us in these moments, where everyone is relocating. In the tourist world, Jacob is a brand that envys everyone and, therefore, that we have to empower, and I would ask them to put on a hand. They also ridiculed that measure of young Xacobeo. Hey! Well, it's one more measure that adds to everything that's been done. This is a bit like what Mr. Álvarez said about taxes: everything is to begin with, and you'll see how nice it is to do something little by little. If you never do anything and you ridicule everything that people support, this is very difficult after, when you ask for support, that people give you their vote in the elections. So go on, I'm delighted. [[Applause]] Look, to close this intervention, as I told you, what is measurable is not opinable and therefore I think it's good to let — and forgive if I repeat something — clear some of the facts of this balance that bothers them so much. How come you won't bother us to swing? How come you won't mind me saying that I'm proud of a government of what I've been part of and that I think you've done things very well, with the different components and with a president in your head, for 13 years? Of course, every time you asked the Greeks, the Greeks said they agreed; they followed us, not you. So, I suppose that all of this stuff would turn you in particular, but there are things that have to be made clear, and if one day you have the opportunity to manage all these matters, it's good to know which truth if you leave to try to improve it too, nothing but for that, and without giving up what is a reality. The reality is that until the pandemic came since 2009, Galicia was the second autonomous community where it grew — as I told you earlier — per capita GDP — which is a reality, the second of seventeen. And until the pandemic arrived, Galicia reached the highest historical level of income convergence with Spain, 91% — that is another reality —. We are the only autonomous community of common regime that did not need any extraordinary mechanism during the crisis, we have maintained self-government — which gives the nationalist lords, the Bloc ladies alike the same — a reality. We have passed you from being the fifth most indebted autonomous community for GDP — in 2008 — to the third with less indebtedness in 2021. I'm saying it because they used to talk about Galician indebtedness. Man, I think this is a bit like the Senate, they don't believe it or their militants. We control the public deficit, and we achieve it with fewer taxes, with 1.2 billion euros that we save to the Greeks and that we return them to make all this creation of squares and this improvement of public health and public education. That's why that was 1.2 billion. We have the record in exports — in 2021, 25,000 euros —; 60,000 unemployed less than when we arrived; more members of Social Security — I told you before — that when we arrived — with historical record in women affiliated to Social Security — the autonomous community with more relative increase in the percentage of wages; the record of tourists in 2019 — and recovering us from forced marches to hit the record this year 2022 —; better health infrastructures — with more technologies, cutting-edge technologies that save many lives and that there are no other hospitals in Spain and that we have them in Galicia — and I have already spoken in my speech about everything that has been done, about the work — a clearly recognised case — which was done during the pandemic with regard to vaccination, among other things. We went to the autonomous peninsula community with less mortality during the pandemic, with higher vaccination, less school dropout, better PISA results, with FP registration record, lower university rates in Spain another year - and so on -. In social services we have more public squares in all the worlds, of course, than in 2009. Many years have passed, but if we were in the proportion that you were, that wouldn't be so; so we shot ourselves these years at creating public squares. His pace can tell them that in three years, and having much more resources at his disposal, he was much lower. Four times as many dependents were cared for, and children's schools were free of charge. In justice, all the new judicial seats, all the digital viewing rooms. Anyway, I could go on with a lot of numbers, but I think you know them perfectly. The bad thing is that some people repeat them trying to make people believe that it's not true what really is true. I don't think you believe them, but you keep trying. And, therefore, what we will do is we will continue to try and continue to want to succeed in the government. You were talking about continuity, you were saying about my speech. They said the other day, and today they also said she's a continuity. Well, maybe they thought that I was going to say no, that I was breaking up with the whole previous stage and that what I wanted were the policies of the Block and the policies of the PSOE. If that's what they thought, I'm disappointed. The policies of PSOE and the policies of the Block don't want them either, no joke! My project -- I've told you -- is to continue on this path, because I think it's what the Greeks come down, and keep very much and try to correct the things that have to be corrected. [[Applause]] We were wrong, of course. Is there room for improvement? Of course, very much. Is the word "continuity" good or bad? Well, it depends on what's going on. I think you guys are continuitys, honestly. They've been persisting in the same proposals for many years, not adapting, not changing, not recognizing a single failure. You do not recognize errors, all errors are the other ones, all errors are everyone but you. And they have just announced here in this speech — and I suppose they will not be rectified on the second occasion — that they will make the same opposition and the same recipes and the same criticisms and the same lack of self-criticism that led them to lose in 2009 — the first, with an almost unprecedented government — which led them to lose in 2012, which led them to lose in 2016, which led them to lose in 2020 and will lead them to lose in 2024, I have no doubt. [[Applause]] Look, we want to continue this path, and we're going to do it. I think there's been an unprecedented improvement -- I just said the figures -- and also with a lot of margin of improvement ahead. And I insist and want it to be clear: I am perfectly aware of the things that are not yet done, of the things that must be corrected, like not? It's just that a government, in order to improve, has to be aware of that. That's why I told them that the spirit of self-criticism, realism, is also very important, to realize what we're venturing. Mrs Pontón — I insist — after so many years is still not really aware of what we are venturing here today. I'm sorry, because then it won't make a constructive opposition, and we need a constructive opposition. We have to keep asking questions here. The first is whether we want to continue to create quality jobs and consolidate the jobs we have. The answer is yes. If you ask him in the street, Mr. Álvarez, they'll say yes. Ask yourself. Do we want to continue to strengthen ourselves as the autonomous community in Spain that supports families the most — without that sectarian concept that you have of families, with that lack of a broad view of society that we do have? Do we want to continue supporting them, any family? The answer will be yes. As long as they don't understand it, they won't understand what society is asking for. Do we want to continue attracting new investments?, do we want Others to be the first link of many good news to come? Yes, of course. That is why — I say again — we will be very careful how the needs and what Galicia is playing are transmitted along with us. The answer is yes. Do we want to continue to achieve record educational results, a public education that is more and more of a quality and that is increasingly useful to ensure the training of young people so that they, in turn, guarantee the future of Galicia? The answer is yes, no doubt. Do we want to continue to innovate and improve everything that needs to be improved in health matters? Do we want to continue to strengthen primary care now more than ever? Yes, but with realism. Do we want to continue to be more modern and more prepared hospitals? Of course! And do we want to continue introducing revolutionary therapies that are right now giving hope, when needed, to many people and many families? Yes, of course we want to keep doing that. And to continue to do that we will continue to rule. And when I take the relief from this weekend, that's what I'm going to dedicate to. I am clear that the Greeks voted stability on that election night to which the spokesperson of the Block was referring. They voted for stability and I want to guarantee that stability. The Greeks voted and asked us also to be responsible, and my government and I will be responsible. Did they ask for consistency? Coherence is what we're going to offer them. There's no other way to do this. I know that you, the nationalists and the socialists, in many places where they rule because they are dedicated to other things. There's no more to see the governments around them: they're dedicated to looking at the environment, arguing between you, fighting, things that matter quite little... Mr. Bará laughs because he knows perfectly what I'm talking about; so he's a real expert in dedicating himself to things that people really don't like too much. We're not going to fall on it, Mr. Bará. I'm very sorry; you have samples of leftover compartmentalized governments, of non-coordinated governments, of governments that move for party interests. I'm sorry to let you down, Galicia will still be absolutely different, make it clear. [[Applause]] And I can assure you in this intervention of the investment debate that, with one president or with another -- I said the other day that changed the walker but does not change the way and I say it again because I think it is fundamental -- with a president or with another president, I think there is a responsible group here and a responsible government that represents a Union that will continue to respond solely and exclusively to the interests of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela. We have opened a replica of the parliamentary groups. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to clarify in advance a couple of nuances with regard to previous interventions. The Socialist Party of Galicia does neither follow nor follow, which is clear. That the candidate was not the candidate who presented the People's Party to the last elections held in this autonomous community is an obvious thing we should not waste our time. The candidate was Mr. Feijóo, not even the People's Party. And we — which is quite clear — do not question the legitimacy of the procedure, we are not the People's Party, who did call Mr Sánchez illegitimate president after the motion of censure. We are not, we do have institutional respect. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, Mr. Rueda, after hearing his speech, he was looking for three words to summarize, and I found them: "Go for God!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Look, it's not necessary for you to do much more than you said, but if I'm going to clarify some of the things, because I already told you that your compass was broken, that it didn't mark right north. And if I can't explain it with a scheme, I'll explain it with apples. Look, you're talking to the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Galician Parliament, the Secretary General of the Galician Socialist Party is in the guest gallery, and you know exactly who he is. Don't try to sow doubts that only seem to exist in your feverish mind about the Socialist Party. And what did you talk to me about here? From the inner struggles of the People's Party to fit the provincial barons to have a candidate? Are you talking to me about public offers to be part of the Government of the Galician Union that they had as a response "we'll see"? Are you talking to me about that? Do you have the courage to come and talk to other political groups that you've had? And, look, Mr. Rueda, I will make it clear from this moment on in this investment session. My respect is yours. What I'm not so clear is that I have yours. You have quoted a restriction of the popular party's hits in your simple and simplified message to a population that, Mr. Rueda, demands is certainty, seriousness in political leaders and viable proposals that solve their problems. And, like, one of the hits is that we always misuse the figures, because, of course, there is a superior intellectual authority of the People's Party — which is to be demonstrated — which leads you to underestimate everything that the opposition says. We always use the bad numbers. I don't know how statistically we never succeed, because, look, it's weird, it's rare never to hit. And you -- I once told the president in function of the Galician Union -- are so skilled at twisting the figures that you take a zero, you hold it down, you grab it up, you twist it, and you end up with an eight. And that's what you do with the figures permanently. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, don't talk to me about education. You put your time and day and we have a sensible, calm, serene debate on education. Whenever you want. And with regard to the proposal made from this group with regard to Stellantis and Others, you didn't know well what I said. But, if you want, after the intervention is over, I'll send you a summary — also, if you want, with a plan — to see what the Socialist Party's commitment to strategic industries like Stellantis and others to our autonomous community is. [[Applause]] You have, Mr Rueda — but not all — an offer of dialogue by the Socialist Party of Galicia, an offer which I transfer to you on behalf of Mr González Formoso. That, by the way — if you ask for a meeting with the President of the Government of the State — will be pleased to receive to deal with the strategic and serious problems of this country, the difference from what your predecessor has made — which will be from the Saturday that comes to be the former President of the Council of Galicia. I repeat, you have an offer of open dialogue without insults, without clichés, with serenity, with solvent bets, to solve the problems — which is what all the citizens of this autonomous community expect of us. Faced with that, I will not fall into disqualification, I will not say, as you have said, that it is an illusion that they believe in the Socialist Party of Galicia, those who believe in their ability to regenerate this autonomous community or to renew it. I am not going to fall into that easy disqualification, because that would lead me to assume, logically, that more than 62% of the population of this autonomous community votes erroneously in the municipal elections, because they are the ones governed by mayors and mayors in this autonomous community and in cities like Vigo, like La Coruña, like Ferrol, like Lugo, Mr Rueda, or like in three of the four provincial deputies — and I know this is a figure that bothers them particularly: they are governed by socialists three of four—. You don't like that, I know. [[Applause]] But, look, the Galicians and the Greeks have to know that there is an alternative project, which is not exclusive, that is viable, that puts people before accounts, that believes in the potentials of our earth, without promises that neither can be fulfilled nor models that are already known to impoverish our autonomous community. Mr. Rueda, your repetitive speech — and I don't say "repetitive" because we've heard it last Tuesday, but because you said the same three or four times, and from there the length of your intervention— reveals again what we've come to denounce: there are no answers to the problems this country has and you have no solutions to the serious crisis that are living the Greeks and the Greeks. Your speech, Mr. Rueda, continues without convincing us. And, look, Galicia works thanks to the work and effort of thousands of Galicians and Greeks. Yes, Mr. Rueda, it works despite its inoperability and inefficiency. And we're not just going to point out the problems, but we're also going to give you solutions. We're going to do it from a loyal point of view, from a sensible point of view. Regardless of whether you come and suggest to the public from this rostrum that what the Socialist Party proposes is illusory and unrealistic, we're going to show you that if you don't want to do it, it's because you don't want to give the answer Galicia needs. First, our commitment that all Galician patients have the right to have a diagnosis at their health center made by their head doctor and in a face-to-face manner. Tell them, Mr. Rueda, to the patients, looking at them in the face, that they don't have that right. You voted a few weeks ago against a bill that brought the parliamentary group. Tell the fisheries sector that it has solutions for them. To see if it's true, because it's a manifestly abandoned sector. We have a model, as I said to you, which presents as an alternative the experience we have in other parts of the state, in the state itself, of course, but also — as I told you before and I have to repeat — in many municipalities in Galicia. More than 110 municipalities, more than 62% of the population, have socialist mayors and mayors who are responding every day through their municipal corporations, their municipalities; councils to whom you have made no direct reference as the direct manager of what the Government of Galicia will be; councils that have been permanently abandoned during the worst crisis this society has experienced, without any kind of commitment from the Galician Union beyond to be periodically planted almost daily in front of Galician Radio and Television to criticize all the measures that the Government of the State was putting in place, without providing the slightest solution for all, all!, not only for 62% of the population that socialists rule in the municipalities but for all the municipalities of this autonomous community. [[Applause]] You adopt, Mr. Rueda, the commitment and tell me in your closing turn, when you finish this appearance, if you will support the transformative projects of our resources, such as milk, wood or fish and aquaculture production. I didn't hear anything. You tell me if you're going to value raw materials and mineral resources in our territory, because I haven't heard anything either. Also tell me if your bet for a clean energy is firm. Tell me if you are betting yourself on an industrial revolution in Galicia with respect to the useful agricultural surface. Tell me what's your real wager for Stellantis in the province of Lugo, beyond you get or you get no engagement from the point of view of the next generation funds, because I told you, I explained earlier, that the Galician Socialist Party would bet on that industry with or without funding. Because of course there is a commitment by the Galician Union, a commitment that should exist but that does not exist. Because the policy of the Galician Union was and I'm afraid it will remain the same. Everything that goes well, regardless of its influence on it, will be the merit of the Council of Galicia. All that goes wrong, with all the influence of the Galician Union on it itself, is responsible for factors other than that. And so, Mr. Rueda, no, not like that. In spite of everything — I repeat — you have the tender hand of this parliamentary group, of the Socialist Party of Galicia, to resolve in the shortest possible time all the very serious problems that go through our society right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u19	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. I would like to inform you that, because of an indisposition — a reason for which he was transferred to the hospital — the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy, of course, cannot speak. Mr. Tellado will do it. And now, yes, you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, we hope that Mr. Puy will be restored soon and that all this will remain in a fright. And already going to the debate, Mr. Rueda, you do well to remember that you are a candidate for the People's Party in this investment session. I'm telling you because I think many in the People's Party don't make it clear. I think your problem is not so much convincing the opposition benches, but really convincing the People's Party benches. [[Applause]] And, look, there are things that surprise me, because I don't understand how you can offend them to talk about what everyone knows. Because, look, Mr. Rueda, everyone knows that you get to the presidency accidentally, and the accident is called "corruption in the People's Party," it's a new case of corruption from the People's Party -- which, by the way, they ended up loading the leader who denounced corruption. [[Applause]] It's, of course, a portrait of how you understand this subject. Of course, his intervention also made it clear to us that the People's Party is the past. See if it's the past that Mr. Rueda has come to oppose the BNG at the investment session. It's the best portrait of how you understand your role and what the future awaits them. [[Applause]] And I also see that it bothers you very much to be a Member. Yeah, they're just like a little... I don't know, fixation. [[Murmurs.]] There's a song: "It's not love, it's called obsession." Well, I want to tell you that at last you have problems with democracy, but you get used to it because the candidates, candidates and spokespersons or spokespersons — the spokespersons — of the BNG — do not decide them by the People's Party. [[Laughter]] It democratically decides on BNG's militancy and citizenship in the polls. [[Murmurs.]] You're not going to decide who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are, who they are. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Rueda, you, as you could not be otherwise, have every right to have your own opinion. What you can't have is your own data — which also never have sources, because we don't know what these sources are. Of course, you come here to assume from the primary care budget the only thing that demonstrates is the ignorance of Galician public accounts. Because in full 2022, with a pandemic, you lowered the primary care budget. That's the respect that workers and public health workers have, that with their efforts they're keeping up a health system that, with their cuts and privatizations, are putting on the ropes. [[Applause]] And you're going to remind him today of the citizenship of the entire health area of Vigo in a mobilization to claim first and end public health for the cuts of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Look, he said there were more affiliates and social security affiliates. Well, I went to the Galego Institute of Statistics. Mr. Counsellor is here and you can also check it out. The average membership in Social Security in 2009 was 1,034,468 people. The last average we have is 2020: 1.001.310. I'm a letter, but add up and stay. And the last fact we have is that there are 1,033,977. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, don't stand as president lying to the Greeks and to the Greeks or failing to respect the harsh working reality in this country. [[Applause]] And I'm worried to see already what Wheel style is: in the face of a problem, we invented a data; in the face of a problem, we compare ourselves to who's worse. And so goes Galicia, because you, instead of comparing yourself to the best, always compare to the worst. And that's why they're leaving us a country in worse conditions. And here there is another question — that this is a basic part of the People's Party — that if everything else doesn't work, it's the fault of the BNG. [[Applause]] Of course, of course, it's from the rest and, above all, from the BNG. I'm also worried that I'll show you again his lack of confidence in Galicia and his ability. That's why you're not Galician government. Because for 13 years they said "no" to more competences. He showed us again that this is a matter he doesn't care about, and they don't want any more financial autonomy. And instead of explaining to the Greeks and to the Greeks what you're going to do to have more public resources, to improve the services, the life and future of this country, you've come here to tell us that the Greeks and the Greeks are living from the central government's alms. No, no, the Greeks and the Greeks pay taxes and we have to be entitled to those taxes to return to a better capacity. And for that, we have to have political ambition and want to have the key to our money. It's a matter, Mr. Rueda, of common sense. [[Applause]] It was also said here by the People's Party that we were illusory and that the citizenship that votes for us is illusory, right? They said, of course, it was illusory to ask for an electric tariff from Galicia. Of course, they tell the Basques, that they have, by the way, managed with Mariano Rajoy, a Basque electric tariff for their companies that allowed them to save 50 million euros! But let them tell them, if not, the Germans too, that they have differentiated rates and that in producing areas they have lower electricity rates! [[Applause]] If possible in Germany, it must also be possible in the Spanish State. But for that, we have to defend Galician interests, and the government of "not Galician" doesn't understand these things. [[Applause]] He also told us we were illusions about asking for a public energy company. I don't know if you're aware, Mr. Rueda, that there are already public energy companies controlling the thermal power station of the bridges. Because the owner of the bridge thermal power plant is an Italian public company. If there can be Italian public companies, there can also be a German public energy company. [[Applause]] And really, the only illusion I've seen in this debate is you, who don't realize that the People's Party is already the past. Yes, yes, the past are proposals like those that you presented at the investment session with that classic that you're going to lower taxes. First, it's a measure of what citizenship has to know what it represents. Because your star measure means, for a citizen who has a liquidable base of 12,450 euros, 1.45 euros a month. They don't invite you to a coffee! I'm not saying... sorry, eh! [[Applause]] This data was not calculated by BNG, it was calculated by the Technical Union of the Ministry of Business. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is a measure, by the way, that will not be effective until the year 2024, and surely at that time it will not be given to them for coffee. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He won't even give them a cup of coffee. [[Applause]] But we have to see the other side of the coin. At the highest rents, at the rents of more than 100,000 euros, a minority in this country, do you know how much this government has lowered? Five hundred euros. That's how you understand tax rebates: privileges for those who have the most and misery for those who have the least. That's how you understand tax cuts. [[Applause]] But do you know who's at the tax payroll ranking? The People's Party of Madrid. And do you know who less invests in public health throughout the state? The Government of the Community of Madrid. That's what we don't want for Galicia, because what we want is strong public health, and for that, we need fair taxation, just the opposite of what the People's Party defends. And yes, we think there's another way to understand the country. He asked us about our wind proposal. It's very clear: BNG's wind proposal is that the energy generated by the wind of the Greeks and the Greeks is used to create wealth here. The People's Party model, what is it? It's a predatory wind boom in the service of people like Mr. Ignacio Sánchez Galán, who not only hides himself but also affords the luxury of insulting us and embraces the People's Party. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rueda, I said this at the beginning of my speech, and the closure of this debate verifies it. Today the People's Party represents the past and the BNG represents the future. In this debate we were able to see that there are two ways of understanding the country and that there are two models among which very soon the Greeks and the Greeks, today's difference, will be able to decide whether they want a PP president or a BNG president with free hands to defend the interests of this country; a president who tells Galicia, yes to public health, yes to defend a living rural country, yes to a productive country, yes to a country with a future where youth does not have to emigrate, yes to a Galician woman proud of her language and culture and to rely on her country. I know that Galicia is closer today, thanks to the love and illusion of all the people who carry this great country—Galiza—in their head and in their heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. From the People's Group we want to wish our spokesman an early recovery and that everything remains in a fright. Mr. Álvarez, you have converted the PSdEG-PSOE into the minority force of this Parliament. I think they sometimes forget what their position is, because from that position you intend to question the legitimacy of this House's majority party, endorsed by 48% of the Greeks who voted in the last autonomous elections. And you think that's not worth anything. I believe that if you do not understand the functioning of a parliamentary regime like ours, in which Parliament elects the presidents — here, in the rest of the autonomous communities and in the Congress of Deputies — it is that their democratic concept is rather obsolete. Of course, it's not our problem. President Rueda will have the same legitimacy as President Feijóo, exactly the same, which the majority group of this House gives to him with the support of 48% of the Greeks. President Rueda will have the same democratic legitimacy, exactly the same! The question is, Mr. Álvarez, why the PSdEG-PSOE does not once abandon that branching in which it has been installed, not in the last few days, in the last few weeks, but in the last few years and decades. They come to this Parliament to defend the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party — in this case, Pedro Sánchez —. You don't come here to defend Galicia's general interest, you come to defend Sánchez's Government permanently. He showed it once and a thousand times. When they had the opportunity to choose between Galicia and Sánchez, always, every time, without discussion, they always chose Sánchez. He closed Alcoa, made the industries affected by the locations installed in the maritime-terrestrial domain, and shut down the thermal power plant at the Bridges. His secretary general, mayor of the Bridges and president of the Provincial Parliament, when he had to elect between Galicia and Sánchez, when he had to elect between The Bridges or Sánchez, he chose Sánchez. So the question is, when will the PSdEG-PSOE once abandon that branchism? The question, Mr Álvarez, is whether they will be rectified and, on some occasion, put themselves on the side of the Greek Government to defend Galician interests. That's the only one we ask the PSdEG-PSOE! But you have managed to say that you are never here to defend the acronyms and that you are here to defend Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Look, you have to accept — I would like to talk about teachers, classes and education in Galicia — that Galicia is the autonomous community with the lowest university rates, because since we rule in the Autonomous Community they freeze year after year. You have to accept that Galicia is the autonomous community that has more teachers per student, likes it or doesn't like it. There are 9.2 students per teacher in our community against 11.3 of the Spanish ensemble. And that's the reality of Welsh education. So, whenever we want to talk about education, we'll talk about education to defend the best public education that our community has ever had. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you say that President Rueda arrives at the presidency of the Galician Ride Board. Those who live from the rebound, from the rebound, are the Galego Nationalist Block. You're a rebound policy, permanently against everything. What lives from the rebounds is your party: eighteen years you have been in this Chamber of defeat in defeat to the final defeat. But you are installed in that sovereignty and superiority not to address the Members of this House, but to speak to those two cameras to see if they take you out on Galician TV saying that you are the savior of Galicia, when it is the policy most defeated in the polls in the democratic history of our community. [[Applause]] And I have to tell you, Mrs. Pontón. We have the best public health in Galicia's history, the best public health! Her political despair leads her to believe that she has the right to criticize public health professionals across a country and question her work, because you mean we have a poor health. We have the best public health, which, by the way, has just passed the biggest stress test, which was the management of a pandemic. We can proudly say that in Galicia we overcome it better than in the whole country, that in Galicia we have the lowest hideous mortality rate on the entire peninsula. And that's what we're satisfied with, but it seems to bother you. What kind of nationalism is it that repents of the successes not of a government but of a country? It's a racist nationalism, a nationalism that, of course, is not located in Galicia that you aspire to represent and that in no way represent. You talked about the windshield. You have to have courage to talk about the windmill! You think the Greeks don't have memory, but they do. You ruled between 2005 and 2009. Remember the wind and everything that happened, that the government broke because you were saying one thing, the Socialist Party said another about you and the others? And you come here to teach the wind when in the morning in this Parliament they ask for more renewables and in the afternoon they pick up all the banners against all the wind projects in our country. That is the seriousness and rigour of the Galego Nationalist Block that represents Mrs. Ana Pontón. You come to speak again — a great novelty in your speech — of the Greek electric tariff. And to justify the need for the Welsh electric tariff, you tell us about a supposed Basque electric tariff. Mrs. Pontón, the Basque electric tariff doesn't exist. It's a lie like a cathedral, it doesn't exist! The proof that there is no such thing is that there are Greek companies that are hosted at that rate and therefore that rate is not Basque. That tariff is an industrial tariff that companies from all over the country can afford. So, Mrs. Pontón, don't lie. You say you represent the future and we represent the past. The truth is, with that statement, you say that all the Germans who attend the polls are wrong and you're right. The Germans were wrong in 2009, they were wrong in 2012, they were wrong in 2016, and they were wrong in 2020. You don't have the humility to look back and see that all these blows that you give in this Parliament are not followed by the Greeks and that you represent a minority of minorities that make up the opposition here in Galicia. I understand your impotence. You were already here, in this Parliament, when Feijóo returned to Galicia to make politics. And since that you — and you — have lost all elections. You have to accept that Feijóo will leave Galicia after 13 years of government and march invicto, invicto! And not only invict, but by reinforcing most of them in every election appointment. [[Applause]] It won in 2009, in 2012, in 2016 and in 2020. And, Mrs. Pontón, Alfonso Rueda is going to win his election as well in 2024. That's the reality! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the BNG, in this investment session you demonstrate that you are in the busy positions of all time, that you are unable to understand the historical moment we are living in, because in our country there are many families going through tremendously badly and you are immersed in the problems of each of your parties. Galicia is denied the recognition of the achievements that have been achieved over the past few years. They do not deny it only to the Government, they deny the whole of society the successes and achievements of recent decades. And that's the political position since you came up in this rostrum. After listening to you and listening to the presidential candidate at this investment session, we can say, from this House's majority group, from the People's Parliamentary Group, that there is a project, that there is a balance sheet of management and that there are equipment. And after listening to the investment candidate Alfonso Rueda, we have to say there's president. You have president for Galicia. And after listening to their interventions, what we have to say is that there is indeed opposition, an opposition experienced only in making opposition. [[Applause]] There is opposition, but there is no alternative. There's a government, there's a single government and a united government, and there's a well-divided opposition. What there is in no case is an alternative to what most of them represent, which the Greeks wanted to give to the People's Party. I'm done now, and I'm done with the words that I had also written our spokesman, Pedro Puy. Galicia is a permanent task, an inconclusive task, which requires the work of everyone, of the majority group, but also of the opposition parties — who today have made frank speeches, have not made any proposals and have shown that they are engaged in the pursuit of a failed opposition. Galicia is a permanent task, an unfinished task, much work remains to be done. And from the People's Parliamentary Group, what we compromise is work, work everywhere, because there's always something to improve. It's true that there are things left to do, but the balance of the fact is a tremendously positive balance and that things have reasonably improved over the past thirteen years. What we propose is to continue to work on the path started in recent legislations and with the impulse and illusion of a new stage leading our investment candidate. And that's why, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we support the candidacy of Fr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela's presidency of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u23	Thank you very much. You have a double turn on the candidate, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I — as did those who have now preceded me in this turn of speech — also wish that this little scare that gave us Pedro Puy be that, nothing more than a scare, and that it recovers as soon as before, of course. And, entering this second shift, I'm going to be rather shorter and try — as I did in the first, or as I tried, at least — to answer some of the other things and that there were no repetitions of what the two spokesmen said, both the spokesperson of the BNG and the spokesman of the Socialist Party. And starting with the spokesperson for the BNG, Mrs. Pontón — I tell you with all my cordiality — I am very glad that in this speech you have focused a little more and that you have seen that you are the spokesperson for an opposition party, not the candidate for this investment; that you have realized what we are talking about here. That really helps, and I hope that during this long time that each of you is left of legislation in the role that corresponds to you — which is where the Greeks put us —: you make realistic proposals and I try — the Government trying — to answer them and make a responsible government. It's just that, if not, it's very difficult, frankly. If you insist again on unrealistic proposals — which you do because you know it's not up to you to govern — then it's complicated to govern. If they are more realistic proposals, I listen to them carefully and with all due respect — as it has to be — and I try to answer them. He was talking to me about competition, for example. We called them from the beginning. And another thing is that governments that have to give up skills give them up. You don't believe -- and you don't believe it either -- that the balance we found -- and that I found myself responsible for this department when I entered the government in 2009 -- was to throw rockets. Propaganda, too much. We were told they got everything and there was nothing practically transferred, with very initial conversations. So we did what we did was to keep insisting on everything that has to do with transfers and also prioritize. Now we have a very important one on the table, which is AP-9. You, when you signed that agreement that was going to change Galician history to support Mr. Sánchez -- you support Mr. Sánchez in everything he does, then another thing is that they don't want to recognize him here -- AP-9 was among the priorities. And we're totally in agreement, but there's no big progress. So you know that, with that decision-making ability that they claim in front of the Moncloa and us, as Government of Galicia, there we can be allies. We want the transfer of AP-9 and we want it with sufficient funding. So we could start over there and we could talk about many more things that are asked for, things that are urgent. But let's start out there and you'll see how we agree. And I think that's a good thing. Just as I would like us to agree on something important — and allow me to insist again — as is the tax drop. I already see you going to talk and see what data you can twist and see what number you can give to try to prove that lowering taxes is not right, to try to ridicule proposals that -- I mean again -- maybe you don't care about them. But for a low-income person who has the minimum to pay the IRPF, pay 25% less than when we get to the government, I think it's important. And every time you take a step, of course, it's important for all those people — who are many in Galicia — and for us too. So I would ask you to give me a hand there and -- what I was saying before -- that you try that healthy practice -- and more at this point -- that people have more money in their pockets and you have to spend less on paying taxes. That always works and should therefore try it with us. I'm sorry he was offended by what I told him, but it's a truth like a house. You are the most time-consuming Member in this Parliament and you are here as a novelty. Come here to do a supposed investment session, and this is the truth. So I'll tell you how many times it takes. And every time you see that you want to come here as a novelty, I'll remind you. If you're upset, what are we going to do, Mrs. Pontón? [[Murmurs.]] Things are like this, they're like this! And when you get the majority support from the Greeks... because, by the way, entering a bit of what Mr. Álvarez said that I didn't recognize the legitimacy of the municipal governments, of course, I recognize them! [[Murmurs.]] Now that you get the subject out, I'll put it back on the table again: are you willing -- the other day President Feijóo said it -- to take the government's glove from the most voted list? Because then maybe things change. You, when they're interested, legitimacy comes from gathering those who lose, and, when they're not interested, all of this has to go forward. With which, what a good opportunity to speak again — now that the municipal elections come — to rule in every council that wins the elections! And don't look back! From now on, whoever wins to rule. Do you agree? We're in time to do it, and that's gonna be the real legitimacy, Mr. Álvarez. And you tell me that I didn't run an election. Home!, I remind you that there is in Moncloa a President of the Government who has been President of the Government without even being a Member. Or was the motion of censure not when he was not a Member? We didn't argue with them. [[Murmurs.]] It's a procedure that's there and it's therefore possible. And if possible, there's little to say if it's produced, but you're a little serious. So there's a legitimate procedure because it's in regulation, it's there, and things are, of course, like that. Just like I know you're the spokesman of the Socialist Party and I know who the general secretary of the Socialist Party in Galicia is. What I don't know is if some of those on that bench know too, but I know who's in charge of the Socialist Party. I'm sure I'm clear, honestly. [[Applause]] You don't have to tell me, you don't have to tell me! Look back when you talk about internal fights. [[Applause]] Look inside. Because here each one has his own, and you, of course, have more than any one. I am very proud of how all this process was done in my party and how it was done in the Government of Unity. I think we're setting an example -- I've said it over these days that I've been visiting the different groupings and I have to say here also where the sovereignty of the people of Greece resides. And it's to be very proud. That, in addition, gives legitimacy also to do things and to work from the unit, which is very important, and which the Greeks thank, without any doubt. I'm sure you'll thank him and that's how you want to see us politicians, Mr. Álvarez, and not arguing internally; if you discuss a number of things among us, but also trying to reach agreements, which is what I tried to say on my first turn and, of course, I will continue to repeat all this time during all the plenarys we have ahead. We are talking about education and I think you will agree that we should talk about it in this debate — and we will talk about it many times before —. I'm very proud of how the Government has led me to take part in the subjects of education and of course there will be to speak. If your proposals and the debates I propose are to improve, we will be delighted. We have very good numbers and, therefore, we have to go from that base to get better. Because here there's a lot of future for Galicia, a solid education that gives rise to a lot of other things. And I want you to insist — because you left me even more concerned in this second intervention than in the first one — on the topic of the PERT and on the subject of Stellantis and Others. I'll make you here — and here's your secretary general — a proposal: help us to see the same predisposition that Pedro Sánchez is showing in Catalonia with the automobile and that he also showed in the morning last week that he has here in Galicia, that he does exactly the same. Are you capable? Are you able to compromise with the same firmness what you are compromising in those areas, are we as important as those? If so, we will begin to agree. And everyone gets involved. In this you can't say: No, to see what you're going to do... if you happen to happen that... again I say: this is very important and I say it legitimately, because I think that, the more clearly we have this, the easier it will be for these so powerful and so important companies to settle in Galicia with all the power, with all the stability and with all the future. So, there's my hand lying, picking up your hand, and now I'm hoping for your ability to engage. I will, of course, ask the President of the Government simply to do the same thing he's doing elsewhere, no less. And I think that even the Block can — or should — support it without too much trouble. And I hope so. And by not repeating things that you said and that I said, Mrs. Pontón -- and I'm done with this part -- we're going on the subject of the figures. Where do you think I get the numbers? I'm a member of a government. It's government figures. I know that you get them out of BNG and that BNG pulls out the appropriate numbers and twists them, because, as you never have to apply them, it's very easy to give those numbers. Of course, wait for me there all the seriousness. What happens is that if the figures don't suit you, say that they are invented — especially when they're good for a government management. They're the real numbers, they like them or they don't like them. And if that seriousness were also applied to your proposal for a concert electric tariff, just to you as an opposition and to us as a better government, and it would be much better. You made it clear. Now the vote is about to take place, and I've had their way of voting in advance. I've already said at the beginning of my first intervention that I was going to try to convince them, but I guess I wasn't able to. I'm going to keep doing this all the time, because I think it's good that they realize that, just as we ask them to be a responsible opposition, you can demand us and you can start on the basis that at least we try to succeed. Now, are there things you're going to tell me you're not? Look, I'm telling you too, I'm not going to hand over Galicia's general interests so they can say yes. I'm very clear — and I know what you're going to say —. I am not going to let them impose nationalist ideas and populist ideas — as they often say — on me now. I won't do that. I will not hand them over to the democratic institutions, which are of all the Greeks — for they have already expressed their majority will — to tell me yes. I won't do that. I'm not going to do anything like what the president of our nation is doing with the CNI to keep them saying yes. I won't ask you to do that in any case. I don't have the capacity to pardon, but I wouldn't be negotiating pardons either. I'm not going to be a hostage to part of my own government. My government is part of a united government and will continue to be a united government; and, therefore, if they have to tell me that they do not ever expect it. Nor — and this is very important and I think it sums up other things — will I give up feeling German, Spanish or European. And if you have to say yes to that, I won't. That made it clear, too. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am perfectly aware that on Saturday it is up to me to assume — we are at the end of a process that has been opened there will be ten days — the greatest responsibility — therefore for me it is an enormous honor and a huge responsibility — to which any Greek or Galician can aspire. I'm sorry, honestly, and I'm aware of what it means to me and what they suppose in Galicia's history the consequences that can have everything I do from now on, and I'm perfectly conscious. I think I'm the next link to a story that's been going on for four decades now, and that we've done very carefully -- I said last Tuesday. If you allow me, regardless of the facts and the mistakes of each one who had the utmost responsibility, in the end it was a currency, a compass, a flag, the sentient in the way of Galicia's politics. And everything that has been done so far — I insist, with correctness and with errors — has to remain — and will of course be — the best way to go and the best way to continue doing things. I, in front of this Parliament which now has to speak, cannot promise that I will always succeed. That would be impossible and would make no sense, because I won't be able to do it. But what I can promise is that I will always decide what in conscience I think is best for the Greeks and for the Greeks. That's what I want to promise you, and everyone has it very clearly. [[Applause]] And I have a project, we have a project, me and the people who will accompany me, the party that supports me, and the group that has already moved forward that will vote in favour. We have a project for this land, of course. I couldn't get here if we didn't have a project. It may be explained more often, in parts more than in others, but Iranians knowing, of course. And I'd also like to know your contributions. Path sheet is designed. Now, I'm also aware that it must be executed, that it must be implanted and that there will be many difficulties. In the end, it is the Greeks who will mark me — me or us as government and you as opposition — the way in which we must go. And it's good enough that Galicia's future of what I'm talking about, the new future that now begins, the new stage, will not be marked by rupture. I've already told you, I've tried to pass it on quite a bit these days. Is that going to be a continuity? Yes, but continuity of the good. And besides, I honestly believe it, there's no reason for sudden shakes. I don't even consider it myself, nor am I sure the Greeks consider it. The Greeks chose a government program and proposals two years ago, and put them in each one where we are right now. So this isn't going to be a breakup, it's going to be a continuity. I'm going back to saying: I'm going to sink into the facts and try to learn from them, I'm going to try to correct the mistakes that have been made — I'm the first one — and I'm going to try to keep going right. In an environment, in a context, where it seems that fashion and what looks good is to break everything and question it all, what I'm going to try is that the Greeks and the Greeks continue to advance together — or, at least, united in the fundamental — because that's a guarantee of many things, because it gives stability and coherence. The unit is very important. And so that's not my idea, but quite the opposite. I'll try not to divide the citizens between good and bad Welsh according to how they feel, according to what they think, according to who they vote, according to what they say... No, no, unity will be fundamental because Galicia's future has to be like Galicia, and Galicia is plural. So we have to keep being plireal. Of course, I'll take special care of that and I'll assume as a goal not to feed those centrifugal trends that are in some places, that look inside and eventually forget what we are as well. I want to say here: we are also Spain, and the future of Galicia will be with our Asturian brothers, with our Catalan brothers, with our Basque brothers, Andalusians, Spanish... and ultimately with our Spanish brothers. We have to say it, too, and I want to say it. I think that, if we are deeply Greek and at the same time we are loyal Spanish, we will succeed. [[Applause]] And I also have something else clear. Here—it is another objective that I would point out—the institutions of all will not be subjected to constant harassment and overthrow. Here the future of Galicia will be from the point of view of the state and its highest institution, which is His Majesty the King, and I want to say it too and let it be clear. So you have to have a government lined up and a parliament conscious of what you're playing -- where some people take things a joke, all the serious things are people who take it a joke. [[Applause]] I think we're in a serious moment to talk about a lot of things. I'm going to say again what you've already laughed at when I said it, but it's going to be planning and it's going to be the old man so I want to guide the government that I'm going to preside over: take care of the work, take care of the family in any of its ways and ultimately take care of the future. Because in the end, these are three concepts that translate into things that I insist a lot on these days, which are going to be fundamental and that we achieve or are going to achieve. The first one is to keep lowering taxes, to continue using our ability to lower taxes to further improve people's lives and to be able to keep giving them money so they can really use them. To continue empowering families so that this demographic challenge that Galicia has in the future can be better tackled and further step by step towards, increasingly, equalizing, regardless of the number of children, the economic possibilities for continuing to do things and continuing to live with more holocausts. That's what we're going to do, too. Keep improving health. And I think that that children's calendar with those three fundamental vaccines was very well-accommodated; because they were also necessary and that's the way to go: to improve health in what's most needed and most appreciated. Continue to improve child education, the future of Galicia and therefore continue to persevere and consolidate that privileged situation of Galicia right now, in which child education is free to everyone regardless of their situation. To continue to improve this vocational training that is becoming an axis and a fundamental column of education in Galicia — especially in its future and in its connection with the working world. Keep looking after our strategic sectors now that they have so many difficulties. Finally, continue to build Galicia. I think there are ideas, I have ideas, there are projects, I have received many projects and many proposals. And I'll hear it all, because from here to the end we have to keep moving together. That's why I also invite opposition benches to make their proposals from loyalty and from where each one of us belongs. Also -- and I want to say for the last time -- there's a balance of what I'm very proud of, and I'm going to go on. So thank you once again, President, for all that legacy you leave us to follow. Thank you, President. I'm not gonna stop making demands because I'm proud of everything we've done. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I sincerely believe — and if not, I would not be about to take this step — that Galicia deserves the best. I'm going to do everything in my hand to contribute to that future being reality, that we have the best of all options, that we are able to choose the best among all, that we are able to read the situation and continue to rule with objectivity and responsibility. I will continue to rule having very much in mind the Greeks yesterday in memory, the Greeks today in the head and the Greeks tomorrow — especially in the heart. Therefore, with all my might, I will rule for all of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u25	Thank you very much. As I announced, the vote will take place at 3 p.m. It's ten minutes, and you'll be warned by the acoustic signal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u26	Good afternoon. We shall resume the sitting by a vote, which shall be held in accordance with Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, I would like to ask the secretary to proceed to draw the name of the honourable Member or of the honourable Member in good luck so that the vote will begin. The members of the Government in office and the Bureau of the House will be the last to vote. The vote will be 'yes', 'no', or 'abstention' when the secretary will proceed to the call. Let's see where we start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u27	We start with Rodríguez Carrera, Maria Felisa. Rodríguez Carrera, Maria Felisa: Yes Rodríguez Dacosta, Maria del Carmen: No. Rodríguez Pérez, Moses: Yes. Rodríguez Rumbo, Matilde Begoña: No. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez, Marta María: Yes Santos Costa, Manuel: Yes Sanz Arias, Cristina: Yes Dry Garcia, Martín: No. Suárez Sarmiento, Maria Elena: Yes. Pérez-Pineiro, Iago: No Tellado Filgueira, Miguel Ángel: Yes. Tortado Quintela, Julio: No. Vázquez Domínguez, Sandra: Yes. Vega Pérez, Daniel: Yes. Verea Fraiz, Borja: Yes. Lourenzo Sobral, Manuel Antonio: No. Lourenzo Gomez, Rubén: Yes. López Sánchez, Rosalía: Yes. González Iglesias, Maria do Carme: No. González Albert, Mary: No. Gomez Salgado, Carlos: Yes. Garcia Vidal, Ana Belén: Yes. Gallego Sanromán, Maria Leticia: No. Brother Vázquez, Maria Begoña: Yes. Ferro Iglesias, José Luís: Yes. Fernández Gómez, Alexandra: No. Fernández Alfonso, Ramon: No. Egerique Mosquera, Teresa: Yes. Díaz Varela, Noa Susana: No. Díaz Mouteira, Maria Sol: Yes. Castro Rey, Paloma: No. Castro García, Daniel: No. Career Peace, Iria: No. Carballo Paez, Ramón: Yes. Candia López, Maria Elena: Yes. Butterfly Anta, Bethlehem: Yes. Knight Miguez, Gonzalo: No. Bará Torres, Xoese Luís: No. Balsairo Orol, José Manuel: Yes. Armada Pérez, José Antonio: Yes. Arias Rodríguez, Raquel: Yes. Orange Fernández, Paul: No. Amigo Díaz, Maria Incarnation: Yes. Álvarez Martínez, Luís Manuel: No. Aira Díaz, Maria del Carmen: No. Count López, Francisco José: Yes. Rue Valenzuela, Alfonso: Yes. Nañez Feijóo, Alberto: Yes. Ortega Otero, Marina: No. Porro Martínez, María Corina: Yes. Paul Cores, Maria Monserrat: No. Calvo Pouso, Diego: Yes. Santalices Vieira, Miguel Ángel: Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u28	There's a lot of people left to vote. I explained that the members of the Government in office and those of the Bureau voted last. That's where they intersected in the Government's vote. Maybe we should start over. Let's do things right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u29	We continue with those who are missing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u30	Murillo Solis, Maria Guadalupe: Yes. Nova Iglesias, Marta: Yes. Ojea Arias, Eduardo: No. Otero Lago, Noelia: No. Otero Rodríguez, Patricia: No. Pardo López, Adrián: Yes. Peace Couñago, José Alberto: Yes. Pérez Fernández, Rosana: No. Pérez López, Daniel: No. Pérez López, Noelia: Yes. Pomar Tojo, Carmen María: Yes. Pontón Mondelo, Ana: No. Prado del Río, Paula: Yes. Prado Patiño, Jesús Miguel: Yes. Presas Berganginos, Noa: No. Puy Fraga, Pedro. [[Away.]] Zas complaints, Mercedes: No. King Varela, José Manuel: Yes. Rios Santmé, Paulo: No. Rivas Cruz, Xose Luís: No. Tato Wheel, Ovidio: Yes. Rodil Fernández, Olalla: No.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-12-DSPG081.u31	Have all the Members and Members voted? Is there someone missing to vote? [[Pause.]] I think a vote is missing, I think the lady's is missing... right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect! Well, then, if we all vote, perfect. Then the vote was taken: votes delivered, 74; votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. Having reached the absolute majority, I call Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela President of Galicia. [[Applause extended.]] The election shall be communicated to His Majesty El-Rey in accordance with article 18 of Law 1/1983, of February 22, of rules governing the Union and its presidency. The session is up. Thank you very much.
