ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified his inattentiveness, in accordance with article 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Ms. Maria do Carmele González Iglesias, who delegated her vote for this plenary session to the spokesperson of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. Ana Pontón Mondelo. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Point one, appearances. Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, on his own request, to expose the educational model of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u2	That's what the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u3	Good morning, Mr. President and ladies. A few months ago, because of the start of the school course, he defended in this chamber that this course 2021-2022 had a transitional character. And he said this for several reasons: firstly, because of the pandemic situation, in which we are still subject; secondly, also because of the constant educational challenges we had to face, and thirdly, because of the mandatory adaptation that the Greek education system has to the principles in this case of the new organic law, the LOMLOE. As I said at that time, even today the health situation is still present, and it is true that it is getting smaller and that we have already begun to see the light after the tunnel, but in no case can we give up to continue to move forward, to continue to deepen in an educational model, the model of education in Galicia, which in recent years has been successful in many variables. It is also not the first time I have raised in this Chamber the concern that we have for the negative effects that can have and are having on the constant goings and lives of the Ministry of Education, with improvised measures that are generating a certain chaos and an idea of improvisation, with measures that can affect and actually affect our model. Without going any further, for everything that has to do with the delay we are living in regarding the publication of the new curricula, which will have to be in force on the basis of the law present at the beginning of the next course. In this context, and of course without disregarding the ordinary, a reflection process was faced to first know where we are and, secondly, to know where we are going and that we want to develop in the educational field. It is known that we have defended from Galicia a defined, differentiated model, a model of our own, that emerges from the accumulation of different educational actions and policies implemented since 2009. And the most important thing is that this model is evaluated by the results that collect different reports. Obviously, we don't want to stay at least in the process, we have to keep working, we have to keep moving forward to modernize and innovate the education system. Today's children and girls, that is, the Greeks tomorrow, need tools that can enhance their ability to face an increasingly global, more technological and with a large volume of data and information, that we must be able to manage and understand. It is a priority for students, both in compulsory and non-compulsory teaching, who acquire knowledge in areas such as mathematics, in scientific areas, in reading understanding, in digital skills, in languages, in social skills, in communicative skills, physical skills and, of course, also developing entrepreneurship. And it also emerges in recent times the need to deepen on issues related to coexistence, equality, emotional well-being, because, undoubtedly, teaching plays a relevant role within an integral and cross-cutting perspective, which is based on the increasingly complex and increasingly global needs of the world. He said it's important, first, to know where we are. For a few years, Galicia has had a government that is fully committed to the drive of useful policies. Output from work in the medium and long term, and having a huge implication of what the educational community is, we were able to move forward and improve the basic variables that measure the quality and equity of the education system. This is in this context where we have to appreciate in its fair measure some of the data that show the good health of the Welsh education system. First of all, the public resources for Galicia's education. Galicia, which is approximately five percent of the school population in Spain — around 4.9 of the school population in Spain — is the fifth community in Spain which has the highest percentage of pupils in public education; in particular, 72.4 percent of the student studies in the public system. We know that we have a per capita GDP that is in the middle of Spain; we are talking about about about twenty-four thousand euros. However, our community invests EUR 7,134 per public student; far above the Spanish average, which is EUR 5,968 per student. This means that in Galicia we make a financial over effort in the education system. We are in the fourth absolute place in educational investment, which if we discount Navarra and the Basque Country, which have its own farm, we would be the second autonomous community on public investment per student in the whole of Spain. In addition, in percentage terms, in Galicia we invested 29.6 percent, which places Galicia in third place in education investment on per capita GDP. It is obvious that these data demonstrate and demonstrate the strong commitment of the Galician Union to teaching. We dedicate resources, and these resources are dedicated to what we all know: works, complementary educational services, teaching staff, operating costs and, of course, the execution of programs. Obviously, having resources does not guarantee anything; the important thing is what we do with those resources, the important thing is the educational results. And I think it's worth talking right now about the results that have been achieved over the last few years, because they certainly help to put the value of teaching in the English language and guide the steps that must be taken. PISA report, one of the most prestigious internationally. The data from the PISA report confirms the quality of the German education system. Galicia has a very high academic performance, the highest and best academic performance in Spain. And also based on PISA data, we have the most equitable teaching in all autonomous communities. Galicia excels in science, it excels in reading as well, it excels in mathematics as well. If we add the data of the three competencies evaluated in PISA, Galicia is a little above Castela and León, which would be the second autonomous community, adding the three variables. In addition, we stand out in transversal values, in values as significant as respect for other cultures or also equality between men and women. Galicia has also registered this year the lowest percentage of school dropout in its history, 8.1 percent. Since 2009 we have had a steady and sustained drop in school dropout. We left in 2009 almost twenty-six percent, today we have 1 percent. Fundamentally, the reduction in school dropout, because there's nothing more socially anti-equitative than a child or a child going out on the street without any kind of training or any kind of titration that swallows them. Obviously, this is not the result of chance, that is the result of the constant work of the educational community, of the launching of improved programs aimed basically at strengthening the competences of those students with more difficulties. And all of this is measured in the success of school in this variable. Another data, the fitness rate. For both 12-year-olds and 15-year-olds Galicia has a place of privilege, because we are in the first case of third-party Spain and in the second case of fifth-year-olds of Spain. We are also the third autonomous community that has the best average of students per computer, on the basis of this case the data of the ministry itself. And we also, fortunately, have Spain's most inclusive education. We're talking about the fact that almost 90 percent of students with special educational needs are educated in ordinary schools; the average of Spain is just over 80 percent. Some 93.6 against a little more than 80 percent. Galicia is also the autonomous community with two official languages where the student claims to be competent in two languages, in both official languages; above the Basque Country, above Catalonia, above the Balearic Islands and above the Valencian Community. And also in English Galicia has made remarkable progress in recent years, in this case being the third autonomous community — behind the Basque Country and behind Catalonia — where students present a higher level of knowledge and skills in English. Even so, we also have a good level of cohabitation in the classrooms. In the third macroeconomic survey we have just carried out very recently, we have seen that 90 percent of families — together with teachers and non-teachers — consider that there are no significant problems of living together in educational centres; by the way, by increasing ten percentage points with respect to the same situation six years earlier, with regard to the same situation in 2016. And at this point of a brief balance I would also like to refer in a special way to the good data of vocational training in Galicia, a mode of teaching that has lived and experienced in the last decade a true silent revolution. Indicator of the prestige and trust that has reached vocational training are registration data. And so, in the face of a period in the Bipartite where we saw a reduction in students in vocational training — three thousand less students — from 2009 onwards, the enrolment increased considerably, around seventy percent, having today about sixty thousand students studying an education that guarantees a huge job insertion. We're talking about that in ordinary cycles about 85 percent of students present an immediate insertion into the labour market. And if we introduce the variable to dual FP, we're talking about almost 97 percent, that is, practically a full insertion. This contrasts — very important — with what happened during the Bipartite period, where there was a 40 percent job placement. We can also feel satisfied — and we say it frankly — of the resistance that the education system has faced in the face of such a complex health situation as this epidemic was. I want here to thank — as I always do — for the great work, for the great effort, for the great responsibility of the educational community as a whole; of course, for the teachers, for the management teams, for the families and especially for the children, who demonstrated a great discipline to comply with protocols that were not easy. Three courses were affected: at the end of 2019-2020, all 2020-2021, and at this 2021-2022 — as we have already said — we are in a transition situation also very much linked to everything that has to do with the vaccination process. We must be quite proud to be of the few autonomous communities that we guarantee almost one hundred percent of visibility, and where fortunately educational centers were not transmission vectors. Obviously, the pandemic has also brought us some learning, some issues that have come to stay -- I say later -- I'm talking about the Virtual Education Plan, or I'm also talking about the Vulnerable Student Care Plan, which is very important. But I'll also talk further to others that we think are very important and, to some extent, the pandemic situation has increased them. After offering this data to know where we are, I think it's very important to know, basically, where we're going, what we want to do and what we want to implement and what we're implementing in the education of Galicia with the view set in the future. It's true that at this point in our life, the Council, the Galician Union, wants to bet on certainties; it wants to give certainty to the entire educational community and it wants to give assurance to families. And that's why we're going to keep working on consolidating known projects, projects that are already inserted into the system itself. Obviously, we must renew them, modify them, expand them to meet the new challenges. And we also want to incorporate new initiatives, which will serve to give new impetus to the education system. All this at a complex moment where, on the one hand, we have a general framework, a Spanish framework, where improvisation and chaos are the most significant measures. This improvisation, this chaos that comes from measures driven by the central government with the implementation of LOMLOE is generating many organizational problems, because they are changing, the rules of play are changing in the middle of the party. We see it in a lot of ways. Aspects as sensitive as oppositions, access to the teaching profession, or everything that has to do with the variation and promotion of the course, the so-called "Decree of General Approval." This uncertainty, improvisation and chaos don't help teaching. From the Council, since the Galician Union, we will continue to bet — as I have said — on a number of strategic lines that have been and will remain useful and effective. In the issue of multilingualism, fundamental to giving opportunities to our boys and girls today, and we want to keep betting, and so we did, presenting an Edulangüe strategy 20-30 there is little time at the board of assembly. We are talking about a proposal for continuity, consolidation, modernisation of work in linguistics, which — as we have already seen — places and has made it possible for a very significant advance in Galicia. And just put two comparative data to see how much effort we've made compared to the year when this government started working on this matter. For example, only in bilingual sections, we went from seven hundred and twenty in the 2009-2010 course to four thousand eight hundred in the current course; a very significant data. And let's no longer say auxiliaries of conversation, where we have passed from sixty-one auxiliaries of conversation to six hundred and twenty-eight nowadays, despite the economic difficulties of many of the years we have lived in this period. Knowledge of foreign languages is vital, basic in today's world, tremendously changing, tremendously competitive, tremendously globalized. And it's basic for a person to have future expectations, both in staff and professionals, that favor their development. Obviously, the learning of foreign languages, which has become generalized and is being mainstreamed in the education system, essentially favours the democratization of foreign language teaching, also creates equal opportunities for students and, of course, gives many opportunities for the future. Also in the digital field, we did a great job. The steps that have taken in recent years are well known. A progressive, constant development with a progressive update over the years. By the way, a new call to extend Edinburgh is being published today in the DOG, in a course where it will be in ESO's third and fourth quarters for the first time. And it allows for the first time there can also be six courses followed where the student can give or participate in a bilingual system. We're talking about the current five hundred Edinburgh centers. Today's new call for an increase of seventy-five new centres. This, along with Plan Edu100, a digital infrastructure plan, which coordinated with Amtega, will enable us to count forty-five thousand ultraportatiles and equipment for two thousand classes; also fifty-five thousand fixed and also portable equipment for teachers. And most importantly, five thousand interactive panels for education school classes in Galicia. The goal is to make one hundred percent of primary, secondary, and bachelor's classes digital. And even so, and in addition to the present but especially thinking about the future, Junta has recently also adopted a digital education strategy. This digital education strategy is equipped with EUR 120 million and includes a planned set of coordinated actions that are supported by two basic pillars: on the one hand, the development of a high-performance digital educational ecosystem and, on the other hand, the improvement of skills and capacities to achieve true digital transformation. This strategy includes a dozen strong-impact actions covering the entire educational community: teachers, students, families and it will also give overall opportunities to the student community. Among the actions provided for in the Digital Education Strategy is the creation, conditioning and staffing of the creative poles. Spaces understood as places of co-creation that will be centered on STEM competences and oriented to the promotion of innovative and technological skills and projects. We are finalizing the order by which the Educational Innovation Program is created by the creatives, and setting out the procedure for participating in this program by the teaching centres, estimated at this first call to reach 200 educational centers. It's also linked to the Digital Education Strategy. It's the Galician Union's bet on innovation. The centre for educational and digital innovation will be established, a centre specialized in digital education and in innovation and educational research, with the aim of providing a quality leap in areas such as teacher training, the design of teaching strategies or the introduction of new pedagogical techniques. This new centre will be located in the Fontán building of the City of Culture and will be the body responsible for identifying, diagnosing and developing projects on educational reality, enabling its transformation through research, innovation and transfer of the results of R & D+I projects. As you know, throughout these years Galicia has defined and executed a roadmap — by the way, also with remarkable success — for the development of programs and actions linked to school libraries and the promotion of reading. He did it through the successive LIA plans. These reading, information and learning plans made it possible for the Greek school libraries to act as real accelerators to educational innovation, to promote active pedagogical practices and to make available to the community equipment, resources, services and opportunities for learning, both individually and at the shared level. Undoubtedly, the Greek school libraries are a reference to other autonomous communities, to the Spanish ensemble. And in the second half of March, in line with the Day of School Libraries, we intend to present the details of the Third LIA Plan, of the LIA 2020-2025 Plan, which implies updating the objectives and priority lines of action that will ensure a stable presence of school libraries in all educational centres in Galicia. And at this point in intervention, I also want to explain another of the actions of the council that has a very direct relationship to the socializing role of education, all that has to do with learning values, attitudes and skills. More and more often we observe that today's society has to face new social and coexistence challenges. The use and abuse of technologies by adolescents and young people, equality, gender violence, inequalities, all of this has to focus on an integral, cross-sectional and multisectoral perspective. And I want to appeal in this context to a collective reflection, not to fall into a temptation, a very easy temptation, which is to convert educational centers, schools, institutes into some kind of magic tool capable of solving all the challenges, all the problems of an increasingly complex world. Of course, the education system is in no way alien to social reality, and the educational administration cannot, and must not, and will not, keep arms crossed. Once on many occasions you will have to lead processes to deal with these situations, and in others you simply have to complement or support the work of other departments and the action of the whole of society. A quality education system must be inclusive and equitable, otherwise it would not be a quality system. In these years, the Council, the Galician Union, has maintained a constant and remarkable effort for attention to diversity, protocol development, promotion of flexible itineraries for students with special educational needs, resource allocation, etc. For a decade now, we believe that attention to diversity should be one of the fundamental pillars of this educational system. We've made a remarkable normative effort, we've made a remarkable resource allocation, about 4,000 professionals are dedicated to individualized attention to students who need it most. And all of this results, and the result is what I used to say, that we have the most inclusive school in Spain. Obviously, with needs, with shortages, but if we look back, we see that the qualitative and quantitative leap in this matter is much more than remarkable. We have to keep working, we're morally and ethically obliged to do it, we've done a lot, there's a lot left to be done, and all the work has to be structured into a process we're currently in. We are developing a Welsh strategy of inclusion and attention to diversity, which must combine and give coherence to policies both from the policy perspective and from the different actions that we are implementing to provide a specific and specific service to students with more needs. Nor can we forget that coexistence, the existence of a good climate of cohabitation in the classroom is fundamental, it is essential to have a system, an educational model of quality and that is equitable. Galicia has been taking decisions and measures aimed at improving school coexistence for years. And with all modesty, I believe that the steps taken place Galicia, they place our autonomous community in a situation compared to others that are much more favourable. This is seen in the data we received when we developed the macro-enquiries to evaluate the framework of coexistence. And in this area, in partnership, in equality, in co-education, we are committed to strengthening educational policies with a comprehensive and consistent approach to time. We were the first autonomous community to put in place a protocol to act on school bullying and cyber-acoustic behaviors a few years ago, and we obviously have to update it. In fact, we are working on reviewing and updating the Protocol on School and Cyber harassment, which we will present during this year 2020-2022, and we are also working on a new strategy of school coexistence, which, of course, a specific line will be centered and will collect everything that has to do with the fight against school harassment. This strategy is going to be based on a series of stones. The first, fundamental, basic, is prevention, prevention of conduct contrary to coexistence; basically having the ability to identify, having a timely identification of the different problems that can be identified, which are contrary to coexistence. And for that, training not only for teachers, but also for families. We will also promote in this new strategy measures that promote the proper use of new technologies, which are basically oriented towards preventing negative behaviors associated with overuse or abuse. We will also continue to work on the care of emotional well-being, improving the social and emotional competences of the student. And also making available to the entire educational community conflict resolution strategies that favor the creation, maintenance and repair of relationships. We will also focus on positive co-existence behaviors by visualizing and highlighting good practices in this area. And, of course, we will bet on an integral, cross-sectional view of coexistence, because evidence and experience show us that negative conduct in this area is often more than in many cases the simple school environment. We have to see, also evaluate the family environment, the personal environment, the social environment where these students have problems of coexistence. All this will be crafted through the creation of provincial commissions of an interdepartmental character. These committees will address with a cross-sectional and comprehensive perspective those problems that exceed the resolution capacity of the centres, and will be oriented to help the people affected to solve each specific problem of coexistence. And at this point too, in connection with school cohabitation, I take up another example of initiatives that have come to the teaching of Greek as a result of the health crisis and, to some extent, have come to stay. On the one hand, we have the Recovery Plan and, on the other hand, we have the emotional welfare education plan. In the past we launched the Plan Recover, in order to recover in this course those weaknesses or to provide — better said — specific attention to compensate for the inequalities or needs arising in the educational system following the pandemic. Under this plan we design a programme contract aimed at strengthening, supporting, accompanying the learning of those most vulnerable and also of those students who, due to the pandemic, did not reach the objectives and competences established at the corresponding level. We also created a network of professionals specialized in this field, the Raogal network of personal and family support and guidance, where thirty-two professionals located in thirty-two centres provide coverage and support and manage actions in this area in a coordinated manner, to act in a concrete and direct manner on pupils and families belonging to each of the geographic areas. Also — as I said — Galicia has made available an emotional welfare plan, also with three phases: detection, strengthening-consolidation and planning. This allowed you to have an integral vision that made you face those emotional problems that came from the current health situation. There is a consensus, ladies and gentlemen, — I say nothing new — to understand that the situation resulting from the health crisis is generating an increase in stress, suffering — if you want — psychological and emotional of all people in general, but especially in childhood and adolescence. In this way, both education and health counsellors are working together in different areas to establish measures in the field of mental health and to provide for behaviors that may harm the student, such as suicide risk in school population. Both departments are working to implement preventive measures, palliative measures and to reduce in this area the levels of anxiety, the levels of stress, the levels of suffering to some extent of the population in general, and particularly the school population. Now that we are focusing on vocational training, we must put into place the decisive wager that Galicia has set for the teaching of vocational training. And he did it as an opportunity, to give opportunities to students who are in vocational training as well as to the whole of Galicia, from the perspective that having well-trained and well-qualified human resources brings added competitiveness to our productive systems. For this, it was essential to relate, directly link the educational supply in the course of vocational training with the needs of different productive tissues, and it was also necessary to consistently implement educational innovation programs, improve the supply of cycles, have a clearer linkage between the educational supply and the needs of each territory and, of course, to provide programs that could be or have what we have today: a modern, dynamic and attractive teaching; a teaching that we could summarize in two words: in prestige and confidence. Social prestige achieved. And in confidence both for students who teach it, about 60 thousand, and for families who place the educational hope of their children in vocational training, and also for businesses, who understand that the best way to provide human resources, professionals for their businesses is through vocational training students. As you know, last February we presented a strategy, the strategy of vocational training, which will guide public policies in this area. A strategy that is supported by an economic support of around EUR 9 billion up to 2024 and which undoubtedly sets vocational training as a strategic priority for the Government of Galicia. This strategy, like any other one, has some axes, it has some actions, but I'd like to highlight a number of them here. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this strategy has been presented and debated very recently in Commission 4th of this parliament, and here too one of the most fundamental actions of this new strategy has been put on the table. On the one hand, the offer of double qualifications in the training cycles; the boost of dual modality in the basic FP; the bet on teachers of vocational training as a highly specialized and highly demanded training in those areas that have a greater job insertion and a greater need for professional inclusion; a commitment decided by the rural, with cycles adapted to their particularities, the expansion of the network of integrated centres, the ICFP, and we are working on this issue in several localities; the drive on innovation, digitisation; the bet on internationalization or vocational guidance; the promotion of entrepreneurship, or the bet on having and design new figures of teachers linked to the company, which we call "associated teachers", which belong to the corporate templates, can impart certain content in the specific cycles of vocational training. The reinforcement of vocational training will also be driven by the opening of the Romanian Centre for Innovation in Vocational Training, which will start walking in Ourense this year 2022. This new centre for innovation and specialization of FP in Galicia will focus on leading areas, such as applied biotechnology, additive manufacturing or energy and environmental sustainability. In this new educational space, innovation projects of interest will be developed for both the educational system itself and the collaborative companies, as well as teacher training activities. Conscious of the progressive interest in the teaching of vocational training in Galicia we are already working on the new ordinary offer for medium and higher cycles. And so, even in an initial phase, we estimate that the ordinary offer for course 2022-2023 will have one thousand ninety-three more educational squares in the field of vocational training, not to mention in this case dual vocational training, nor the masters. With which we will have in the ordinary regime more than a thousand new squares, and these squares will increase with the offer of dual vocational training and also with the different masters. [[Applause]] And I also want to mention that in relation to the education model, Junta is also working on improving the supply of training for adults, designing and working on a new policy framework. Well, from the above up to now, we can draw the evidence that our education system has shown in recent years that it progressively improves both in quality and in equity. And we must defend it, and we must always keep it by respecting and respecting the law. That's why I want to share this camera with a serious concern that we have at the moment we're in and by the constant improvisation that we're seeing in the development of LOMLOE. We see at a real and serious risk some basic aspects to define the quality, equality and equity of our educational model. We see it through a constant succession of different measures that are being implemented by the Government of Spain, which we think will lead to a loss of quality, equity and equality among students. Without a doubt, one of the clearest is the so-called "General Adoption Decree", so that a student can pass or pass a course regardless of approved or suspended subjects. Or what we have right now on the table, which is adaptation of teaching in this case to new curricula. We're worried and we can't look to the other side, because at this point in the course we still lack the approval of ESO and Bachelor's decrees, which will generate in the education system a certain problem of adapting to the new situation. I move the will and commitment to continue to maintain our educational model, to continue with prolonged and constant effort to improve the teaching of Greek. And we do it from a feeling of pride, pride, taking into account the progress that has been made. It is a pride whose main responsibility is undoubtedly the whole educational community: teachers, different types of educational professionals, inspectors, directors, mentors... but also families and, of course, students. Not to mention the work done in this case since the Educational Administration. [[Applause]] And, no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we have to look to the future and we have to be aware that we have done a lot, we have done a lot in recent years, but also, ladies, there is still a lot to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u4	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u5	Thank you, President. Good day to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. "Holy pride" you said. The truth is, even though we are used to these kinds of appearances, in which few commitments and achievements, the most chubby symbols for everything, commissions, all kinds of strategies, because the truth is that putting names in a certain style -- we should recognize -- but sadly concrete commitments -- we say -- is just a little bit beyond that car around the non-German educational model, but the People's Party and nothing more than the People's Party, because we don't find it. In addition, this attendance arrives only a few hours after they have moved to the educational centres that, just like the general population, will not be closely monitored from now on with positive contacts per capita; therefore, they will not be registered in Educovid and suspend quarantine and surveillance measures. Well, nothing to object to, these are the decisions that have been taken within the Public Health Commission, including the Interterritorial Council. But in the case of Galicia, what you have to point out is that you take those decisions sometimes yes, sometimes no, and everything depends. What does it depend on? Who has to bear the responsibilities, or whether Mr. Feijóo has to cover that quota, that media space confronting and carrying the opposite, even if it is when action is taken that he himself asked for. And now all that quota, that media space that went down for such a long time of confrontation, we see that it's picking up those fruit. Curiously, at the same time as they move that we cease to follow contacts in the educational centres for the effective improvement of the epidemiological and vaccination situation, we are still — we remember — the exception in the entire state of maintaining the use of masks in the outer courtyard of the schools. A month ago — as you know — since February 10 was implemented that recommendation that children and children rest abroad, in the courtyards, as would be done in the streets, and that it was implemented virtually at that time in all communities. And here the chairman of the board, before listening to the Clinical Committee — because it wasn't a recommendation from the Clinical Committee — had to go around the press to put that but, some "no" -- because we have to occupy — as we say — that quota and that media space. What do you mean? The president had to say some "no" to those consensual decisions. Well, the Spanish Association of Pediatrics also weeks ago, since it announced and argued its commitment to removing masks abroad, in the courtyards, in this context of download of transmission, and taking into account that since the associations of speech therapists and pediatricians warned of a possible negative impact on learning and on the relationships and socializations of children and children. Until now, of course, it was necessary to assume that cost, but now the Spanish Association of Pediatrics had concluded around the incoherence that it is supposed to transfer to the children and children the obligation to use masks in the outdoor courtyards of the schools to then go out to the street or to the parks and be able to remove it. We, the adviser, by responsibility and, of course, we always respect the decisions of the Clinical Committee. But, as we said, Mr Feijóo was disqualified before the removal of the masks publicly to bring the contrary to the decisions at the state level. All that effort in the pandemic to confront the Central Government now gives him that coveted fruit of power. But while in the middle there are the Greeks and the Greeks and the educational community, which doesn't have to suffer from irresponsibility, political opportunism. Because you announce that you keep your masks and then send an e-mail without marking clear guidelines and delegate to them all the responsibility, which is what they've done. So now they're dissociating in the part that interests when they're interested, they import clinical and health recommendations when they're politically interested in the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo. And when they don't, they look for other arguments, or they directly leave functions, and they carry responsibility in the centers. Because, Counselor, it's not worth anything to come here thanking and praising the work, the effort, the sacrifice, the work of the teachers and teachers all this time if the facts, resources and policies that they have developed since their counsellors once again walk on that path of the permanent cuts they've been walking on for more than a decade. [[Applause]] Education model of Galicia. We say the educational model of the People's Party, because they're sectarians as traditional as when we talk about education, and we'll talk about more examples. Because beyond the names chulos, we say, and generalities, we have to pay attention, and see if we're real and clarify it today. We'll talk about this model of FP, rural education, disproportionate ratios in many centers, over teaching hours, cuts in teachers. And it also takes on a day like today to make mention, by the way, of this Women's Day, this day for the claim of real equality. We'll talk here today, among other things, about co-responsibility. What do you mean? Words will be empty if we don't talk about resources, and education is one of the basic pillars in this feminist struggle against a patriarchal society which in so many areas continues to cling to the historical privileges of men at the expense of our inequality, women. Training and education in equality, how important it is! And at one point, for example, the key to the development of vocational training fills us up by talking about training for the labour market, the increase in enrolments, forgetting the serious gender gap that affects FP. The registrations that represent, according to the different fields of training, the permanence of gender stereotypes, and with this the least possible work. There is much to be done in the field of educational equality because it is not worth celebrating today as an annual efemeric. And you said just a few days ago that the Secretary-General of Education appeared in this committee parliament to present this new strategy of Galician vocational training 2030. We are at the end with the feeling that after losing years for not having advanced a specific ambitious plan for Galicia, now that we are in a historic moment talking about vocational training, the result of an intense process of participation, we have this new state-wide organic law that has a vast political backing. The whole House, all political parties, with the exception of the People's Party, who voted against, supported the new organic law of the Socialist Party. Counsellor, your party was the only one of the twenty-three forces represented in Congress who voted against this law, which has an budget of four billion euros. Because in education, as we said, what is sent to the People's Party is the ideological and political issue. [[Applause]] A law of education never came out of the chamber with as much political support as this one. And that's why you come to cover that file and present this Welsh Strategy of FP 2030, going up to a car -- and we moved it the other day on that commission to the Secretary General of Education -- without clarifying what the specific resources are for those who contribute, where they will come from, and, above all, with whom they have counted to draw it. With the Galician Professional Training Board, no. The educational community and the unions are sick and are looking forward to knowing who they counted on to design and present this Galician strategy 2030. He announced Mr Feijóo — no rebuttal of words and headlines — that Galicia would live with this strategy the great silent revolution of vocational training. And we told the Secretary General of Education that it is so quiet because absolutely no one, in the educational field, in the unions and in that Galician Council of Vocational Training, knew the work they had done, what the diagnosis was, what the resources would be and what the catalogue is also of that strategy. So you were talking about participation and consensus at the beginning of your intervention, at least it's resounding and I'd even dare say bold. And of course we need and share an ambitious plan, updated to the needs and specificities of this country, but consulted and discussed with the corresponding educational bodies and based on a real study of the context and needs. Only for vocational training last year, Galicia received more than EUR 80 million, and if we add investment to projects developed by institutes, EUR 80 million and EUR 7 million. We're talking about historical investments. But we were saying that it is also necessary to talk — not enough time — about ratios, real ratios, and not about unrealistic measures in which you mix these rural and urban media. When we're finding cases of exaggerated ratios on all non-university educational levels and where still above the student repeater or account, and there are undergraduate courses with thirty-seven and thirty-eight students per class. We also want to talk about the complicated, more complicated circumstances of this course, with less staff because you fired those reinforcement teachers, with an increase in the number of students and students who need specific reinforcement care for different situations, as a result also more of the crisis and the crises that resulted in their codification. And by dialogue and listening to this council -- we insist -- we've already found that they look like words that are not part of your dictionary. So, to finish — and then we will sink into other issues — we remember that it is possible to consent and dialogue. This happens with the state law of the FP. And look: in 2007, the Education Council, in the Government chaired by Pérez Touriño, together with all the trade union organizations, signed a historic agreement that placed us at the head of the state, reducing the present time in the centers from thirty to twenty-five hours; changing also the class teaching for teachers at twenty-one hours, and keeping in eighteen high school. In 2011, you remove that schedule from the map and increase the hours, and you already know the consequences of quality, both in teaching and in the working conditions of professionals. And this is, Counsellor — you know — one of the unanimous demands supported by the entire union arch. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u7	Thank you very much, President. Very good 8th of March to all and to all. I, Mr. Rodríguez, who listened to him — as I always do and try to do — with great attention and with much respect, wondered as he was advancing his intervention if all these forks were needed for this journey. And I mean that we are delighted, that it is always a joy to have you here in this parliament, to appear. But of course, if your appearances are going to be reduced again to this hyperbolic praise, to this permanent pride, for I, Mr. Rodríguez, think it would be far more likely that you would move these interventions to the press room in San Caetano, or even to retransmit them on Galician TV; now that they are used to retransmit them to the acts of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And since we're little by little focusing on these homely appearances — "homely" not Homero, that of the Odyssey, "homely" is more of Homer Simpson; I don't know if you follow The Simpsons, I don't know if you like them, Mr. Rodríguez, I think they're recommendable. But Homer said a quote that I think goes like a ring to my finger: "There are three little phrases that will always help you throughout your life; one of those phrases is "Good idea, boss," the other is "It was that way when I arrived" and the third is "It was his fault." And, Counselor, we really know that they're messed up, that they've had a few weeks of knitting lately, and that they're just like they weren't going to attend to the educational community in this country. At the end of the day, his appearance was: I'm loaded here with plans of various strategies that total, in the end, we're the only ones that we do is the press release and it's all left on wet paper. But we, Counselor, believe that the educational community in this country does not have to suffer from the popular party's handkerchiefs in recent times. And they don't blame you because I think you're well enough to suffer the consequences of your policies, like, for example, having a teacher at the limit with a time load and a bureaucratic burden without any other reference in the history of Greek education. [[Applause]] Consequences like classroom ratios, especially in urban areas, which make work very difficult. And I know where you're going to come from, you're going to make me that whole revolutionum, that half of the hours... but, look, as we're here to reach agreements, I'm making a proposal -- not tomorrow, that we have full -- but I'm planning on Thursday in San Caetano, we share a coffee, and if you have it well because you give me article 9 that I've asked you to give me and that you have an obligation to give me about the urban ratios of this country. So we can stop speculating and talk to data on the table. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Consequences, for example, such as the effects of the pandemic that continues to have on mental health in effect in the educational community. Another proposal, Counsellor, which we are making to you: if, as you have just acknowledged, there is a need in this regard, we have reached an agreement this Friday in the Fourth Education Commission, which we will also take an initiative in this regard. And, of course, then we start with the usual: the autobomb, the hyperbole... and you come here — it's just that I'm amazed, Mr. Rodríguez — to assume the fitness rate. You say, "We have a rate of suitability that we're so proud of." And, of course, Mr. Rodríguez, the problem is that the rate of repeaters we have in this country is not that double, not that triple, is that it quadriples the rate of repeaters you're recommending to OECD. It is that Europe recommends that we have about three percent repeaters, and we are now in third place from ESO, Mr Rodríguez, we have 12.6 percent repeaters. It's the third highest repeater rate in Europe. And do you come here to presume on that data, Mr. Rodríguez? And really, when we're talking about a percentage that should cause all the alarms to skip, what do you just say?, what are they going to implement measures to solve this?, what are they going to implement resources?, what are they going to provide the staff centres? No, what you're going to say to us is that students and students are vague and now with the new education legislation they're all going to pass and they're going to stop studying and learning. Mr. Rodríguez, it doesn't seem serious. Since I don't think it's easy for us to have a third-party ESO rate of 12.6 percent, either. But other consequences, such as having abandoned rural education, where transport problems are being reported day by day. This is the mirror of the reality they are transferring, not the BNG, which would, let us say, be part of the legitimate parliamentary debate. The problem is, Mr Rodríguez, that all these issues we are bringing here are questions that are moving you representatives of the student, representatives of the families, of the ANPA, representatives of the professor at the School Council and at the sectoral tables, without until now the only one we find, the only answer that comes to us from the council is nothing more than press notes, than great headlines — and I hope that in the reply I will have time to be able to evaluate a little more from the bottom. They don't get into anything at all. So I don't have time for your interventions to sink into everything you wanted in all that data, but I think there are two axes that I think it's important that we focus, Mr. Rodríguez: first, equality in Greek education; then, to talk a little bit about this new educational legislation too, and then I wanted to finish with a proposal, to see if we were able to achieve that agreement. Let's start with equality. You, Mr. Rodríguez, much laity lived, but here of equality spoke little or nothing. Note: since 2016, the first Action Plan for Equality in Educational Centres has not been adopted until September of the course 2019-2020 that you gave the instruction to implement these Equality Plans. [[Applause]] Instructions that only contributed to a greater bureaucratic burden, without any kind of recourse, without any specific measures, that motivated it was that at last in many centers still today these equality plans are not implemented, and in others they have absolutely liturgical use. They call them "complying" plans, i.e., fulfilling and lying, because they are impossible to execute at educational centres. [[Applause]] Segregation, Mr. Rodríguez. One question that I ask you for is to answer: do you consider equality in education, co-educational education and feminist education compatible with concerts that segregate children? When you arrived at this government there were the proceedings initiated to suppress those concerts. [[Applause]] The first thing they did when they got to the government was to reactivate these concerts. Mr. Rodríguez, they've been failing Article 11 of the Women's Equal Labour Law. And the teachers of this country are still without equal plans in their schools. Mr. Rodríguez, he said it in his "homey" appearances, it's very good to come here with these questions, with declarations of intent, but ultimately it's someone else's fault, when I arrived I was already here and reality doesn't turn. LOMLOE, Counselor. It's just great; we thank you very much and we share the rush of publishing these resumes. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Rodríguez? It's just that when you got the responsibility to publish those curricula it didn't just take a few months, you had to delay the start of the Wert Law because you were even able to transfer those curricula from year to year. And I could say, of course, as we are concerned about the teaching of Greek, because the People's Party has been worried, has been belligerent... No, no, there were communities of the People's Party here that if they then rebelled against the Wert Law because of the delay in the curricula. Do you know what the reply of the Galician People's Party was, Mr. Rodríguez? This very thing: silence, chitton, silent in the forum. So, Mr. Rodríguez, we understand that here are issues that must be deepened, and I think the best way we have to check them is to get rid of that damn hemerotheca. In 2014-2015, he said to the person representing the People's Party — the hemerotheca is or has it — "In Galicia organic laws have always been applied with the PP or PSOE, and it will also apply this." Manuel Corredoira said. What does Román Rodríguez say now, Education Counsellor? We're going to do our best to keep LOMLOE out of Galicia. Small changes and small changes, Mr. Rodríguez. So we agreed. Curriculums must be implemented as soon as possible, sent. We agree that there is an objective delay on the part of the Government of the State. We agreed that you too, Mr. Rodríguez, must say that at no time were supporters of the autonomous communities having that weight in the preparation of curricula. And I also think it's objective to say that what you've been reduced in recent times is simply to translate the resumes that were sent to you from Madrid. So — and I am finished, Mr President — we would like to finish this meeting, because the situation and the challenges facing public education are important, in this 8M appearance also proposing — eight measures for public education in this country. We make a proposal for agreement, and we would like you to tell us day and time on your second turn of intervention. First proposal, Mr Rodríguez: Equality plan for teachers and students in all educational centres with staff and resources. Second proposal: to demand from universities on the subject of equality in the teaching teacher. Third proposal, Mr Rodríguez: to eliminate educational segregation in the teaching centres in Galicia. Fourth proposal, Mr Rodríguez: mental health care plan in the educational field. Fifth proposal: recruitment of teachers in public education. Sixth proposal: agreement for linguistic normalisation. Seventh proposal: recovery of the hours and working conditions of the teacher. And eight proposals: plan for rural education. If you, Mr. Rodríguez, are about to modernize the public education of this country,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u9	...to bet on the future, you can count on this hand held here we leave you. If, on the contrary, what you want is to continue with these praises, with this permanent car, I'm sorry, but don't count on BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Mr. Lourenzo, education has not been abandoned in the last week. Education is a serious and formal commitment from all over Galicia to work for it. Probably the one who's helpless is the BNG himself, who doesn't know he's more concerned about President Feijóo than about Ukraine, possibly that. Counsellor, thank you very much for coming to this chamber today, for doing so by your own request, for discussing Galician educational model and for moving forward as well as here the main lines of work in which government action will be seated from the childhood stage to the university. And it is true that Galicia has its own educational model, an educational system based on the constant pursuit of quality, equal opportunities, equity and plurilingualism. A system that places students and teachers at the center of their actions. This pandemic, which, of course, led to an unprecedented crisis in all areas, also subjected to the greatest challenge in history that our educational system has ever faced. That is why from this parliamentary group we once again want to highlight and thank the additional effort of the entire educational community. And in addition to the effort, we should also thank him for his commitment and his ability to adapt to the new exceptional measures that brought the pandemic. New measures have been taken to address this transition course in Galicia, which has led to an extra investment for this course of EUR 140 million. Ladies and gentlemen, 140 million euros extra contributed alone and exclusively by the Galician Union, because what this investment means the state has not contributed a single penny. And he counted two thousand ninety-five teachers more than before the pandemic. A plan of measures that, among other advantages, has facilitated Galicia's being the autonomous community of Spain with a lower incidence of covid in the education system. That is why, Counsellor, we believe it is essential to follow the road that has already begun, to continue to maintain that effort and to continue to work also to strengthen the teaching of Greek, as well as announced here with a long package of measures. So an effort to boost all the work of the council, which this year 2022 translates into the highest budget in the history of the council: EUR 2,753 million, with an increase of more than twenty percent in the area, for example, of investments. An budget that serves to shield and guarantee the quality and equity of our education system. But this education system that we have given ourselves to the Greeks also requires a stable and consensual framework for the autonomous communities, as it has been said here. And we see and we have to say that since this parliamentary group we see it with concern because this stable framework does not exist; because the central government has approved the so-called Celaá Law, which is a genuine intent, and its development is still being more chaotic; because it is a deeply party and ideological law; because it restricts the right to decide about families; because they want to make the language a cause of conflict rather than a tool for understanding; because they have renounced the two years of work and the fifty peers under the State Covenant for Education. Mr. Lourenzo, this was the reason why the previous Government stopped applying measures to try to reach a state pact in Congress and the Senate. A state pact in which many professionals appeared, and a state pact that this government threw on the ground nothing more to come. So I think things have to be called by their name. It is a law which, of course, we understand from this parliamentary group that does not serve to improve education, but serves to please independent government partners, who have only unlocked the approval of general budgets after the approval of the Cela Law. It's a reality. I know that sometimes reality doesn't like it. But a law that provides a calendar proposed by the law itself from an action calendar that is being systematically breached by the government and which is constantly changing the rules of the game. As was said here, as the counsellor said, with the decree of general approval, published in the middle of the course and which goes against the culture of effort, all that is sought is to make the statistics of the school dropout rate, unique and exclusively. The improvisation in the application of the new educational law has also affected a lot of changes in the criteria for promotion and evaluation, and it has forced autonomous communities to seek solutions to adapt the end of the course and give guarantees especially to teachers in their work in order to eliminate ESO recovery tests and also with multiple suspensions. Also, indeed, these changes are generating distortion in future teachers. It's announced at Christmas, when everything's scheduled. When opposition processes are organized, as there is an announced change in that opposition process. Change in what you're going to and whether you're going to value only the experience and not the knowledge, again attacking the quality of the teachers. So it's a huge change in silence when many communities -- as I said -- have already started their processes. But in the application, indeed, the biggest problem we are seeing is that delay in publishing the curricula. Even this camera brought the debate to the publication of the curricula. The law itself sets it up, sets the maximum of a year for its elaboration. The truth is, the first eight months have been two ministers messing with the subject, and we've finally got a huge delay in this publication. Look, for an idea: the fine model has been working and consensual for four years, in front of the model that we have, the Sanchist model, which they want to deploy in four months. So, in four months and from back to autonomous communities and also in a hasty manner. Because there's a quarter left to finish this course and we still don't have the curricula, and they won't do it in advance, at least those of ESO and those of high school. And they won't do it in advance enough for the undergraduate student to know what options to choose, for the editorials to prepare the teaching materials, for the teachers to train and develop their programs, thus compromising the start of the next school course. But I'm going to read to them textually what the State Council itself said in the primary curriculum, which had to be presented last year and was presented last week. Textually or Council of State: "Excessive complexity, abstraction and difficulty in carrying out the contents of the annexes. It is not clear that they contribute to facilitating the work of teachers in different learning situations." It follows or the Council of State: "It would have been desirable to have an ordinary period of consultation and not extraordinary given the importance of the matter and the litigation to which it was referred." So she insists that it's an unclear text. Things don't have to do them running, and that's what you're trying to do with the same speed that was approved by the Sky Law: from back to back from then on to the entire community in the middle of the pandemic. But look at the Socialist Party's spokesman talking about vocational training. He talked about vocational training and I think it's very interesting because vocational training, the real architects of vocational training, is his technical professor of FP, who still goes on to go. And it follows this technical professor to extinguish because the Celá Law in that run-down approval has forgotten the technical professor. Look, it's hard to forget FP teachers in a law! And it turns out that to solve the problem, we have to solve it with another law. And that's why the vocational training law is rapidly put in place. So don't worry if we vote against it, because if we vote against it, Mrs Otero, it's because the People's Party has a lot of reasons. Because this law to Galicia, of course, will not give you anything, because Galicia is a pioneer in vocational training. So I think you're doing a good job. Since Galicia then needs the state a stable framework, a stable framework that recovers that state pact, a stable framework that contemplates the cost of dispersal, Mr. Lourenzo. For the cost of school transport in Galicia, the cost of school dining, the cost of public service provision represents a surplus of EUR 354 million for Galicia. And I would like you to adopt a more heated position of defence, too, because the first thing you did in the state government in the pandemic was to change the criteria for the distribution of European funds, in which Galicia was reached 36.3 million euros, and you were very quiet. So when the families need it the most in this pandemic, the government has just tightened access to student scholarships with specific educational needs, excluding hundreds of young Greek children with specific educational support needs. And this, of course, is not betting on inclusion. But the biggest cut in the education system, Mrs. Otero, in this legislation was what happened to the state itself by eliminating the Order of Funding Covid for Education, which called for the previous year and last year did not call. And that's a huge cut, because the more necessary it is for the hiring of teachers, the state resigns its responsibilities, and the order it convened in 2020-2021 does not call it in course 2021-2022. So when you talk about teacher cuts, you have to look at what you've been practicing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u12	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u13	I believe, Counsellor, that you have made here a number of proposals: creation of creatives, special digital education centre, working on the strategy of inclusion, attention to diversity, new strategies of coexistence, which this group seems very successful to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u15	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u16	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand that the opposition groups must oppose and criticize the government. It's the democratic game and it has to be. Obviously, I would also ask them to recognize reality once and not to question the great progress and objectives of teaching in Galicia in recent years, which, of course, this government has something to do with, but which is essentially thanks to the work of the educational community as a whole. Because listening to you — and I've been listening to you for a long time — gives you the feeling that teaching, like any public policy or government action, is a pure disaster. His liturgical literature can't stand a single moment when we compare it with reality, when we compare it with objective data. I in this opportunity that I have to make replicas first wanted to make a brief reference to the concrete approaches of the parties, the Socialist Party and the Block, and then jointly deal with actions that the two parties put on the table. Indeed, the intervention of the Socialist Party, of Mrs Otero, was tremendously illustrative of a net ideology, which prevails in the Socialist Party. And why am I going to say this? Because you attacked us and questioned us for one thing and for the contrary; you defended one thing and the opposite. You have questioned us here that we have not heeded the dictates of the Interterritorial Commission. On the one hand, he attacked us, and on the other, he asked us to listen to him. On the one hand, tell us that in the wake of the cases we fail to pay attention to him, and on the other hand, you tell us that in the particular case of the masks we listen to him. How do we listen, Your Honor, to what you say in favour of or against the dictation of the Interterritorial Commission? It gives the feeling that in that criticism you make there's an enormous opportunism, a huge liquid opportunism, which is equally worth being in a Chinese jar, which is equal to being in a bottle of mineral water. Let's agree on what we do. If we do and fulfill exactly the dictates of the Interterritorial Commission, yes or no? [[Applause]] Because you can't tell us that for some things we listen to you, masks, and for case follow-up not. It's a question that is really very definite, just as it is very definite that the Socialist Party now comes here to assume this Chamber of Vocational Training. In fact, a law was passed 15 days ago. But I'm talking about the work of a decade, of something more than a decade, of a true silent revolution -- it has been said in this chamber many times -- where the registration in Galicia is significantly increased, about seventy percent. I suppose the law passed 15 days ago has nothing to do with it, I suppose. Unless you say yes now. Just as I suppose you'll understand that moving from 40 percent employability to a virtually full employability has to do with a law that was approved 15 days ago. Or perhaps it also has to do with a law that has been approved for fifteen years, the prestige and trust that has achieved this mode of teaching in Galicia. Because -- allow me to think about it -- this government took a professional education with forty percent employability and took a vocational training that during the Bipartite reduced its enrolment to more than three thousand students. From there on, if you think that the great work done in the educational centers of vocational training, where the professor had an absolutely fundamental role, it's thanks to what you approved a law fifteen days ago, well, because we'll give him the reason, but it's really a little bold to say that, fortunately, because a law was approved fifteen days ago, all the historical trajectory of recent years has made it possible for the FP to gain clearly in confidence and to gain clearly in prestige. [[Applause]] And it's also a very clear statement what you say here about dialogue and consensus. I can tell you as responsible for a loyal and collaborative administration that the main source of information for the Galician Union about the measures we had to implement to develop LOMLOE or other were the media. We always learned about the great actions or the great projects that the Government of Spain implemented through the media. Then at two days the document arrived. That's right. The allegations made. Do you know how many allegations did this council make to royal decrees and decrees and how many were accepted? So that you come here to talk about dialogue and consensus. If you've broken the Covenant by the education that was practically completed, with great work together in the last few months of the Rajoy Government. It's very good rhetoric, it's very good that you talk about dialogue, talk about consensus, but practice it a little bit. We only ask them to practice it a little bit, and it will certainly be better for the health of Galicia and the Spanish ensemble. And with regard to the general ideas of Mr. Lourenzo, the Galego Nationalist Block, well, Mr. Lourenzo lives in his own imagination, in the political imagination of the BNG. It is obvious that we have also seen in this speech that there is already a more international character in its intellectual references. But he certainly continues a little in his mantras. Here you stand by Hondt's Law, you came to speak of Wert's Law. Well, if I had talked a little more about the Sky Law, it would be more in reality, a lot more in reality. [[Applause]] And he also talks about equality. See: you see a comparison of the respect of students from different autonomous communities with respect to a number of values, including gender equality. And you say in that statistic, that it's a statistic not made by government, but by an international body, that autonomous community has a greater recognition of gender equality. It'll take a surprise. And you deny it or you will say that this report is useless. It's their parallel reality. But in the end, I think everything we do in this area, as in many more, will always be little. But it doesn't question or point out that there are no active and transversal policies in educational institutions to promote equality between people, because they exist and are known. Now it's a general problem of society, not just trying to focus it on a link — very important of society — but on a link of society. Then we also see that they pose criticisms -- I called them "serious," because they always come out, that they are in their speeches, but that once they collide with reality frankly they fall. They constantly talk about clippings, clippings, clippings; it's their magic word. They say there are fewer teachers than other years. Look, there's more than two thousand prepandemic year contracts, more than two thousand new contracts have been made. We have the ratio -- I know you don't like this data -- of teachers/students better than Spain, after Cantabria. It's a fact that doesn't matter obviously. Just as it doesn't matter to know that in Spain as a whole we have the size of the groups — which is already a more specific data — of the best in Spain, which is the second in childhood, the third in primary, the fourth in ESO and, very important, the first in special education. They also speak of quality as a teacher. Home!, because stabilization is very important for having a teacher committed to teaching and giving quality to teaching. Galicia has one of Spain's lowest interim rates, 8 percent; the average of Spain is 25 percent; some autonomous communities are 40 percent. Listen: the teacher is established here, since this government has made an average of a thousand invitations for public officials during the Feijóo period, a thousand medium-year-old squares. We're talking about just 12,936. [[Applause]] I mean, there's a commitment to the stability and quality of the teacher. And then also another one of his general mantras, which is discrimination in rural education against the urban. Galicia is a unique educational district, where educational quality, results, projects, programs, actions are identical. Opportunities are the same in rural areas as in urban areas. That's right, there's an overcost in rural areas, mainly derived from population dispersion -- something that's normal and objective. And there's the network of educational centres that we have in Galicia, there's the cost, for example, or the investment — as you mean — that you have the school transport, that you have the complementary services, that you have the dining rooms. I mean, if we talk about results, if we talk about educational resources, Galicia works like a single district, fortunately, and it's social justice to do so. Obviously, there's always going to be a problem somewhere, there's always going to be a problem elsewhere, no doubt about it. But I think it's fair to recognize Galicia's over effort to maintain education, to maintain education in the eido and in the rural world. And another question that really surprises me that they don't treat it — treats BNG a little bit of refilon — is about the objective concern of the whole educational community, which we have from the field of counseling, not only that the progressive deployment of LOMLOE, hurried, as they had come behind them like the coward when he runs. Because we don't understand how fast there is to implement a law, modifying the rules of play in the middle of the party, generating changes in aspects like oppositions, the decree of evaluation, the decree of promotion. I wonder why, because "running is cowardly," which says the song. We don't understand why there's this brutal rush to implement a law. A law that we are seeing and will see that it reduces quality, equity and equality in the education system. We don't understand, the truth. What we see is that there seems to be no such concern, because it is a very serious concern, because it will affect very much — and I have already lived it in another stage — the organization of educational institutions immediately. And it seems like a great irresponsibility that at this point we have not yet passed both the ESO and the Bachelor's decrees. A few days ago the primary was approved; it was announced that it would be approved in December, it was approved three months later. Look, we have to train the teachers. We're going to have problems, there's going to be trouble making the schedules. At ESO and high school there will be new subjects, it's going to reduce itineraries. The student, what can he choose? In Bachelor's degree there will be new forms of bachelor's degree, there will be new subjects. How do we train teachers?, what is the curriculum?, what are the teaching materials?, what does the publishing sector do? I mean, there's a number of issues that are really at least self-recognizant. And that's leading us to an interim planning with all the prudence in the world in order to implement the law. Because if no one doubts it, we're a loyal administration and we're going to comply with the law, we'll like it more or less. Now, let's do it the way we like to say "Aa galega", trying to have the effects of this bad law impact as little as possible on an educational model that has proven it works. And I don't buy them, gentlemen, your argument that we do this because of ideology or because of politics. Look: we're very critical, tremendously critical with the implementation of LOMLOE, tremendously critical; I don't think I'm saying anything new. But we too are able to cooperate. A few days ago, the minister of education was here, I met with her and we talked about some aspects in which we are going to cooperate in everything that has to do with the teaching profession, with the necessary reform of the teaching profession. It is not that on the part of the ministry there is nothing new at this time, because much of the principles that the Ministry has put forward have already been dealt with, we have addressed them in all the autonomous communities at the end of 2017 and 2018, precisely in the State Pact. In this case I gave the ministry the ability to cooperate with a model that we have already announced, we have already designed, but that obviously has to implement the state. This is a value chain that first affects the system of access to initial training; the modification of ABAU, of course, that affects a second link, which is access to university. With regard to the reform of the study plan, we already have a document that we put on the table, which is the teaching skills that a teacher in this changing society must currently handle, should be used to be able to transfer to students. A third link to this string has to do with the organization of the professional function -- some call it "thousand teachers." Beyond the name, what matters is that we have to reorganize access to teaching training, either with a redefinition of the master, or with a change of opposition. We offer that experience we have, and we tell the minister. And there we have no problem with cooperating and working together. Nor in the third link, which has to do with the professional teaching career, with the continuing training of the teacher. There's no problem. That's why they don't come here now to simplifying that the criticisms of LOMLOE are ideological-based criticisms, they're political-based criticisms. It's not true, because just as we're very critical with a bad law that harms and will harm quality, equity and equality, we also want to work and collaborate in action, which is reforming the teaching profession, which we understand is vital to the present and, above all, vital to the future. [[Applause]] And I'm finished with a reflection. I am tremendously proud of the Greek education system. And when I say this is not an autobomb, they don't understand it in any case as an autobomb, or they understand it, it doesn't matter to me... this pride is a recognition, a recognition to the educational community. [[Murmurs.]] I've said it on many occasions: everything's fine, all liturgies are very good, but in the end, what matters are comparative results. And once you know and once you've exposed the results to some of the main variables that measure quality, that measure equity, that ultimately measure the health of the education system, I think you should really be much more cautious in your reflections and political criticisms. Obviously, a public policy is not an end in itself, it is a means, and it is a means basically to give opportunities to children, girls, girls today, who are going to be the Greeks and the Greeks tomorrow. And we work on that line. We may be wrong, no doubt; we can do better or worse, no doubt. But the comparative results, the temporal trends we have and the dynamics of recent years show that the Welsh education system is a good educational system. And thanks — as I say — to the constant work, involvement, motivation and illusion of the teacher, of families, of the whole educational community. And we want — and we have finished — a model that gives us opportunities, prepares us for the future and sustains us in four pillars: quality, equity, equal opportunities and training in values. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that political criticism is lawful, but I also ask them in that sense to make a minimum of recognition to an educational system where the Counsellor, the Counsellor and the Government have a part — I will not say whether the largest or the smallest; for you it will be superfluous, for us it is significant —. But the set of results are progressing in constant progress and in constant work, which ultimately matters — as I say so — are the educational results, which, fortunately in recent years, go in good line and enable us to look at the future — I think — with great optimism and a better situation than we had a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u18	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We opened a special round of clarifications with double government. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u19	Counsellor, you do not twist the truth, that this lack of dialogue and not exercise it derives from that active listening problem, because you twist absolutely what we were proposing and we approached you in connection with these escalation measures. This is at no time we come to criticize as such; we simply ask for the same clarification that the educational community is asking for. Let us pray that you do not leave functions for questions of political interest of the President of the Council of Galicia to be confronted over and over again with the Government of the State, heeding the decisions when interested and saying not when not interested in occupying this media space. What we ask for is wisdom and to be clear with the educational community itself, which yesterday tells you that you will not follow up close contacts because the epidemiological situation is very good, and we are the singularity at the state level in the outdoor courtyards of schools. [[Applause]] And we ask, what are the reasons? And if there are those reasons and there are those guidelines, they move them to educational centers, and not an email saying that the Interterritorial Council decides on this, that they can get them out, but we here in Galicia say no. End of date. That's irresponsibility and loss of functions. We insist: what we ask is that we be loyal and just as the educational community has clear guidelines and that you assume in the board what you have to assume: the clinical guidelines. Why are they against what the Spanish Association of Pediatrics recommends? They argue why and argue it to educational schools, simply. So don't you twist our words. And we were saying that we didn't want to take advantage of this debate and its presence without stopping talking about the countryside, because they're still punishing the closing of schools and decisions they take through the back door. We've raised specific questions that you haven't clarified. For example, let's also consider one in particular, as is what is happening in Chantada under arrest. We have just denounced from this parliamentary group the obscurantism of the council on the merger of the IES Val do Asma and the IES Lamas das Quendas, which affects one hundred and twenty-eight students who are now making ESO and bacharelate. At a meeting in the council tell them that the next course these students will be transferred from high school, but then publicly and officially they don't confirm or lie. And this is causing great discomfort between families, between the educational community and, above all, between students and students. Increase and enhance the supply of FP in the Asma Valley IES should not occur to the detriment of a cut that exists. You have to work, counselor, more sensibly in this kind of institute that is located in rural areas not to force that lack of services, those decisions that are being made in recent years continue to send girls and boys off to larger localities. On the other hand, the Confederation of ANPA of Galicia has recently called for a meeting to address the disturbing situation of undergraduate and FP students studying in a place other than their residence, since, in the event of a non-compulsory stage, they do not have the right to school transportation. We have a very serious problem of vertebration in the territory where public transport is concerned, but we also have a structural problem of education; we talk about rural areas and we also talk about cities. We spoke before the disproportionate problem of ratios, and they've been promising and failing, for example, that new school map of Vigo. How old are you, Counselor? The head of the territorial council, Mr. César Pérez Ares, I think ten years ago he announced that this map was almost drawn up; also in 2017. Right now, that we are in the process of enrollment, do you know what they are suffering from students who have to choose a school, for example, in a neighborhood like Navia, because they haven't adapted these years the zoning and the school map to the demographic reality of the city of Vigo? And I don't ask you anymore about that school that was also announced... look, I'm like the 10,000 who live there, and the neighbor of Navia. [[Applause]] I had no daughter, and you'd already announced a high school. He's ten years old now, and he hasn't taken a child's school or a place in the public school there. And along the way they go, I don't think the public school in Navia either. Finally, let's talk about what we're talking about -- and as there are thirty seconds -- and we were talking about what we have to claim on this day, and throughout the year, equality, that the Education Council -- and you're also the holder of culture -- has a lot and a lot to say about models. Well, your government and your advisor maybe should take some note of what's happening on Galician TV. This is something we have discussed and discussed in the Committee on the Control of CRTVG. So to talk about how much cocaine is going as a cultural question in a program, we think it's not the right thing to do; to put the women known from the world of communication to challenge a TV show where they're messed with their manicure, their clothes, and the challenge is to get their seed out of the bulls, either. [[Applause]] Yeah, it happened this season on Galician TV. That you don't know is even more serious. That you don't know all this is even more serious, Counselor, because you are responsible for education and culture in this German Government. So as a day like today, I think we should make an important reflection on the models and the importance that we give to certain things and values in a cross-sectional way, starting with their advice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u21	Thank you, President. I agree, Counselor: running is cowardly. The problem is that he walked all July of this course with the language outside, suppressing teachers at the teaching centers with absolute nighttime and with absolute alleviation. So it's very good that you criticize one thing, but apply the story, please. We're going on, LOMLOE. I'm convinced that you criticize government when you rule others and you shut down when you rule is not a question of ideology, it's perhaps a matter of memory. So, as this is evidence, Mr. Rodríguez, look: ass of pass to solve that problem, and the question is over. Equality. It's just that, Mr. Rodríguez, we all want to move you here is that you haven't done your homework in the educational field. Where are the equality plans for the teacher who had an obligation to have been implemented since 2007?, where are they, Counselor? What's going on with the student's equality plans? What's happening with the vocational training license, which is a very obvious imbalance between men and women, and their general directors come to this parliament saying that they don't go to FP by tradition? What's going on with the teaching centers that separate men and women? What we're telling you is your mirror, your policy of equality, Mr. Rodríguez. PISA. PISA is a photograph that we all take into account, of course, that there is data — look at — that can be positive and many communities and many countries and so on, but I think that PISA is not for you to come here to be selfie to the work of teachers. And what you have to try to evaluate in PISA is to put measures to solve some data that also gives PISA, which, perhaps, are not so much to throw rockets, Mr. Rodríguez. Reading understanding, we lost fourteen points in the last year. Self-efficacy, we're halfway below state. Empathy, sixths in the tail. Interests in another culture, the last of the queue as well. So come here and stay with the good data that the PISA Report gives us and get under the carpet the data that aren't so good, I think it's a very unhonest attitude. And of course there are positive data, of course there are. And of course there's an obvious effort and recognition to the teacher's work. But what's expected of an administration is not that it should capitalize on that work, but that it should take care of those aspects in which it is important to establish improvements and put enough resources and personnel to be able to carry them forward. [[Applause]] Mr. Rodríguez, teacher squares. Of course, this is an absolute orchestra here. He said, a thousand more teachers since we ruled. It's just that you should know what someone says so little suspect what the Board of Auditors might be like. Have you read what the Board of Auditors says, which I understand is a reference you have in mind? I want to think so, that you're a serious lord. So the Board of Auditors is saying that since the People's Party's rule, the Greek education system has two thousand and five hundred teachers less in public education; that's that you charge 200 and fifty teachers every year. So you have two options: or the Board of Auditors I don't know is Bildu, or you'll have to give some sort of explanation. [[Applause]] Technical professors of vocational training. All agreed, because some action by the state government is absolutely illegitimate and requires an immediate solution. We have proposed that you start taking those measures. For example, by implementing a salary supplement for these technical teachers. Do you know what you voted for? On the contrary, because the dinerite, Mr. Rodríguez, dominates ideology. Covered funds. It's fantastic! You come here to criticise the allocation of funds, and it turns out that the representatives of the People's Party and Mr. Pablo Casado — perhaps because of that they gave him a door — voted against these same criteria of division. They come here to criticize one thing and say absolutely the opposite. Vocational training. There's data that I think should be taken into account, which is important to have. Completion rate, Mr. Rodríguez. It's just that you forgot her, too. A question like with LOMLOE, selective memory. Almost one in two students who start vocational training does not end it, 54.82 percent of the student in vocational training, when the average state is 60.85 percent. But you can't talk about this either. By the way, a completion rate that is much higher in women than in men, women have more academic success in vocational training, because you will have to explain why there is a gender difference in access to vocational training, where only 33 percent are women and 43 percent are men. This inequality is what we have to talk about in the area of education, not to put on settled drawers, Counsellor, this is what we have to be talking about. [[Applause]] Repeater rate. What I want to tell you is that if you think it's legitimate for an education counselor to come here and assume that he has a repetition rate that quadruples what he's telling us at OECD. Do you think you can assume this because we repeat less than Murcia? Man, fantastic! But we quadrupled the rate of what Europe recommends to us. I think you have to look at the best, to improve the teaching of Greek, and don't try this kind of manipulations to make it look like something's okay when it's an absolute catastrophe, Counselor. It's over. I end up so good roll, Mr. Rodríguez, I want to think that you will invite me, or I invite you, if you will, to that coffee that Thursday to give me that article 9 which you have to give me and that you haven't wanted to give me for months. So this coffee stays standing and so we see the urban ratios. [[Applause]] And I want to think that in this intervention, if you're going to talk to me about the eight points, the eight measures for this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u22	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u23	March 8 to be proposed. Because if they do not — and end, President — what they will prove is that they intend to do with public education in this country the same as they did with public health: dismantle it until it is turned into a failed system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u24	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I'm going in order. Mrs. Otero, you talked about rural education. I honestly don't think you're the example of education that went on in rural because you were closing unitarian schools in rural areas at a rate of twenty-seven in 2006, twenty-six in 2007, which is the largest percentage of closing schools in the history of our community. So, to give rural education classes surely they also have to review their data. You were talking about having a high school in Navia, Vigo. Man, you have to talk to your mayor, because in the Budgets of the Board it's budgeted and what's missing are the land, which corresponds to the Town Hall itself. So I think it's appropriate to be a little more serious. And the BNG, too. Indeed, today Mr. Lourenzo recognizes some things of PISA, but of course, he tends to shut up very much when there's something about the state that harms Galicia, and he gets excited when it goes wrong to the Greek education system. You intend to try to create that negative view of the education system, which, of course, does not correspond to reality at all. Because that negative vision is constantly on you every time you submit and come here to this rostrum. But look: Galicia's education system is up to the most advanced countries in Europe. And Galicia is being loyal, being loyal to the state, being loyal to the application of the rules, but indeed that loyalty also compels us to say what we think. And the truth is that PISA, which is the largest and most influential proof of international education, was full here that has been constantly denigrating, well, for there seems to be a change of attitude at least by the nationalist side. Of course, I ratify what the advisor here has put forward: that the education system where the Greek students at the age of fifteen exceed Spain's average in all competences. We are Spain's first community in scientific competence. We are the second in reading competition, and today I would like to highlight an important measure in terms of reading competition on 8 March: that the young women in Greece are the first in Spain and the Fridays worldwide in reading competition. I think that's a very interesting fact that highlights the importance of our education system. And we are Spain's fifth community in mathematical competition. Galicia stands out in global competition. We are the second community with regard to students towards people of other cultures, far ahead of those communities that have constant linguistic conflicts. And I think it's unfortunate, Mr. Lourenzo, that you come here today to accuse the Galician Union of putting in house-housing drawers. The truth is, I think it's a word of bad taste. According to PISA, the student is the most conscious of equality between men and women. We are Spain's first community in awareness of equality between men and women. I think this is the merit of all the people of Galicia, and of their educational system as well. Therefore, Galicia has an educational system that is the most equitable in Spain as it has been said here. The Areces Foundation says that German students have twice as many possibilities for academic performance as unfavourable socio-economic environment; far above the Basque Country and Catalonia. I know that sometimes the data bothers, but that's the truth, it's a reality. In other words, a German child in rural or urban areas has twice as many possibilities for academic performance as he has an unfavorable socio-economic environment. So I think that's very positive because the education system is giving priority to those who need it most, it's exercising the education system as a real social elevator. Galicia is the second community where most ESO fourth grade students, 96 percent of the approved student. You guys talk and you've talked a lot about the school dropout rate, where Galicia has a historical record. Mr. Lourenzo, do you know what school dropout rate was inherited from the Bipartite? 22 percent. Do you know where they left him? In twenty-six percent, 25.8 percent. You were on average one point at the school dropout rate every year that they ruled; with the People's Party you dropped 1.5 points every year that we ruled, until you put it in the best historical record. [[Murmurs.]] So you come here to talk about a lot of things, but the reality is that. And here's the general approval -- that general approval decree -- when you can approve that you can suspend, when you can do the tests that you don't do, when you can study that you don't study. School failure is solved by promoting the culture of effort and not lowering the level below. The model on the left, indeed, is betting on equality, bringing everyone down, impoverishing education, destroying the culture of effort, because it will be easier to dominate them ideologically, Mr. Lourenzo. Because it's very serious that you come here to say that we dismantle the education system, that the education system is dismantled, that this is going to be a government and a failed system. Look: failed systems are those that attack the culture of effort, and we have countries that you admire a lot of what is going on constantly and permanently. So, Counsellor, for my part and for this parliamentary group we want to congratulate the data, we also want to congratulate the various measures you are proposing to try to keep the education system improving, with its things that, in fact, always have to be fixed. But working on these programs of inclusion, of attention to diversity, of coexistence, of fighting against school failure, of continuing to improve our data, of continuing to invest in the education system as it is investing in; to improve, above all, the most important capital, which is the teacher, with that lowest rate of interintence in Spain, compared to that 40 percent that have some autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u27	So I think we must continue on that line, we must continue to work and, of course, we will have the support of this parliamentary group. Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u28	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close to attendance, cultural adviser, education and university.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, you're still deep in your net position. Because you criticize us for one thing and for the opposite as regards compliance with health measures in educational institutions. I'm going to tell you one thing, I'm asking you a question that I know you obviously can't answer, but to think about: how many measures in education have been implemented contrary to the health criteria? I'll give you the answer: none. We have done as an educational system of course what those who know of these issues have sent us, without a doubt, and we have scrupulously carried out the health warrants. There's no other remedy left. What are we going to do, something different? No way. I'm saying it's a liquid posture, too, that it's talked about here at Navia's high school. The Galician Board has been waiting for many months for the Vigo Council, within its competences in urban development, to issue a favourable report on the different documents of urban development plans, which make it possible for private lands to become public lands, and from there they can start to work in the process. It is unheard that anyone who prevents the urban processing that progresses in the different stages of development of a space of an urban polygon in turn says that it does not become a institute by the Galician Union, when precisely the delays in urban processing resulting from the impediments in favorable reports make it impossible for the Galician Union to do so. It's absolutely a posture, not liquid, almost gaseous. [[Applause]] And you're about to talk about educational investments in Vigo, because when there was a project to launch an FP campus, it was precisely nothing more to reach the Free Zone the Government of the Socialist Party and the project was loaded. With which really little more to say. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Lourenzo, the truth is, I like to argue with you, I recognize it, it's happening. He says a lot of nonsense, but it's happening. But this time... well, I'm sorry, I didn't mean "study." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't get me wrong. I'm asking you to withdraw. Now this time it scares me, it scares me a little bit. Come and tell me, hey, if you don't have coffee with me, I'll do this. I was a little scared, eh! I was a little scared. And I apologize for the previous adjective, which you don't deserve. One thing is certain: the Galego Nationalist Block always supports when the Socialist Party needs it, and always governs where the Socialist Party needs it, and then publicly criticizes it. It must also be hard for the Socialist Party to have a partner who you know will support you, but who is criticizing you. It must give a bit of a feeling of disappointment. As it is also disturbing that objective data such as PISA data is constantly being used, which we may like either right or wrong. And I'm sure if PISA's data were detrimental to Galicia's educational structure, you would give it the utmost moral authority. And, of course, there are some questions that don't make sense, and that's where I really think there's some bad information. Galicia, in aspects that have to do with empathy, in aspects that have to do with respect to other cultures, with regard to gender equality, is one of the best in Spain without a doubt. With regard to other cultures, so they say: it's not that it's the best in a country that's going wrong, because it's not worth it. For example, with regard to other cultures, Spain is curiously the first of Europe; the first of Europe, Spain. It means that we respect other cultures; sometimes they generate intolerance, but in general we respect. The first community in relation to other cultures is Canary Islands and the second is Galicia. I think in the field of values something will be done well. Just like it was done well in a reference that you make here to the technical professors of FP. Look, do you know what they did for them? For we have modified the call for oppositions of the year 2021 to be able to convene more squares of technical professors of FP before LOMLOE was approved in this case in the first month of January of last year. I think we've convened over 200 square miles just to stabilize the professor. [[Applause]] But, well, you follow up on your fears, you follow up on your speeches, you follow up on dismantling, etc. I think about where we are, and the data is there, I'm not going to repeat it. I think we're in a good line, Galicia is in a good line. I insist: thanks to the work of the educational community, and we are a link to that community. Now we have to know where we want to go, where we want to go. What do we want to do to improve education and therefore improve the future of Galicia? And there I sincerely believe that you lack compasses; they have no guide, they don't know where they want to go, they don't know where they are. They just talk about means, but they never talk about goals, they never talk about results. They don't really have their feet on the earth. I can tell you that this government has feet on the ground, we have them for a long time, and not only have our feet on the earth, but we know where we want to get and what we have to do to continue to improve in different educational projects, which many of us have announced here: digitization, languages, STEM competences, coexistence, emotional well-being and a modern, adapted FP and future. I think we're saying that. And I think we're also an autonomous community that we have to defend Galicia and that we have to defend our educational model, which has proven to be a good model. And I insist: here we're not making a simple political question, I said it the previous time. We're tremendously critical of LOMLOE. Now, we want to work and we can work together on other lines of work that are also important for the future of education. Because it's not a time to be in purely ideological matters, purely partisan, it's not the time to give solutions. Because we're at a very complex moment, because it's not only that we're in a war, that we're in, but we're in a moment of enormous social transformation: the issue of digitization, the progressive digitization of society, the changes of work in the labour market, the risk of coexistence. We have to act, we have to have programmes, we have to have solutions that lead to these measures and enable us to move forward with our feet on the earth, but with a vision of the future and with a clear compass. Obviously, we are not asked not to question a model like what you want or are implementing LOMLOE, a model that takes care of equality, that creates inequality among people, that lowers the quality of results, that is absolutely anti-equity and that is contrary to the freedom of families. They can't ask us that because we're not going to. Yes, we're going to respect the law, but we're going to try to impact as little as possible on our model. Because, in short, Galicia has a good educational system. I don't think that's a question. Much remains to be done, much has been done in recent years, but we still have much to do. And to do so, we have to know where we are and where we want to go. And in the end, as you already say, "there's no more blind than you don't want to see." And you don't see the dynamics, you don't see the evidence, you don't see the results accumulated over these years in the main variables that measure the quality and equity of a system. Finally, Mr President, we have been working on this line since the first meeting in Galicia, because we are convinced that we are working for the future, we are working to give our children, our children, our young people and our girls opportunities today. And we wait and we're sure that the future of Galicia tomorrow will depend a lot on what we do today in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u30	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Speaking of the future, we are accompanied by students from the fifth and sixth primary school in Eulogio Gómez Francheira, Ourense. They're also with their teacher and we greet them and welcome this parliament. And now we've moved on to the second point of the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of xunta de Galicia regarding the problematic use of the internet and social networks by minors and adolescents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u31	An equally interesting debate for the audience we have today in the gallery. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u32	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u33	Thank you, President. Welcome to the fifth and sixth primary students. I'm delighted that once again we're going to talk about technology, about social networks here in this plenary and that we have protagonists like you to be able to talk about this issue. We are now in favour of this motion in the Galician Parliament, which is derived from the request we have tabled from the Socialist Group in the past full; an interpellation with an ambitious but necessary proposal, and what we must do. I'm sure she'll be welcomed by all the representative groups of this chamber here, because it's a matter that affects all of us. And today we count on the presence in this plenary of Professor Rial, leader of the university team in Greece where Unicef Spain has entrusted and set itself to carry out and lead this study that partly promotes this initiative on the problematic use of Internet in adolescents. Today he symbolizes the great talent we have at the public university in Galicia, the great human capital we have to be able to take advantage of from the administrations in order to be able to implement our policies diligently and correctly. But we also have representation of the Galician Children's Platform. Monica Viqueira's face, now present here, her vice president, now symbolizes and represents more than ever the social movements and activists who daily struggle for the rights of children. Given the historic moment so complex and unprecedented that we are living in, with a humanitarian crisis that has severely affected hundreds of thousands of children, I cannot ignore the work that is being seen at this time as never before, but that has been working for many years to shield children's rights and therefore I want to mention some of the associations represented here today Monica Viceira, as are the Galaga Association of Temperá's Care, Alborada Association, Aldaba Foundation, Children's Villages, Friendly Foundation, Association Abuse Child Abuse No, Arela, Space, Aid in Action, Trama Center, Viraventos Association, Red Cross Hospitality Program, Diagram Foundation, Education, Igaxes, Youth Movement Marcha Compostela Foundation, Children, Pestudio-Day Social Childhood and Health Association, Unicef, Association Galega de Faipción e Accelemento And I can't quote anymore because I don't have time, but so many and so many others, and also so many anonymous people who are indirect and directly fighting every day in the shadow for the rights and the protection of minors. It is that in the face of the events that we are living with the invasion of Ukraine, in which there are unbearable images of children and children fleeing their country, of children hidden and terrified by bombs and babies and children who had to be well cared for in a hospital and are in subhuman conditions, we are left without words. We cannot have here today the vice president of the Children's Organizations Platform and speak of minors without making a unanimous recognition of the constant struggle to protect and shield the well-being of our children and children by activists, who give a touch of hope so necessary at such hard times for hundreds and hundreds of thousands of children. So I ask a unanimous applause from the whole House for all of them here today. Just, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] They are the mother of two children — like many of the people who are present here — and surely you will agree with me that we never think we should answer our children's questions about a war in the 21st century; as we never think our children would live a global pandemic that would steal them two years of that normality that is needed to grow up with a proper effective social development. For those of us who are adults it was and it's very hard to assume, but we have to be aware that from the mind of a child and a teenager it all lives from another perspective, and here we are present to many of them who will probably know what I'm talking about. What has happened and our sons and daughters are going through is very hard to assimilate. Her parents live a childhood without great problems in our country, but today's children and girls and adolescents are growing up in a very difficult context to digest into a period of time that seems short to us, but that for them is a world, because the perception of the passage of time is not the same as when you are a child or a teenager. All of this has consequences, and one of them is that many of them have taken refuge in social networks or new technologies, that a priori we start — of course, without stigmatizing them — of the positive effects that they have — the positive effects of such necessary social skill, eliminate barriers, generate opportunities, have social benefits, also generate many opportunities at the business level -- but there is also the other side of the coin, and when there is a problematic use, there can be problems on the health of minors and even on their own family life. Because the danger of addiction exists, and it is already recognized by the World Health Organization itself as a mental disorder, an addiction disorder in the case of video games. We have to talk about this. And this doesn't just answer the pandemic pass, but it's true it's increased. I know that many of the families who are listening to us will feel identified with that 22% of families who are arguing at home for the use of technology at least once a week. I also know -- and we know -- that will make many families understand the concept of "mazon children" that allude to several studies to refer to that generation of children that we are creating familiar with the immediateness of the response. Now all the desires that we have get them immediately, in a click, and with this it can disappear the value of waiting. That's why we can take the children away, too, the possibility of being motivated by themselves. I know that many teenage children will feel identified when we talk about an increasingly common problem, such as identifying more with the image of one in the photos with social network filters, to the extreme of rejecting the real real image of one in the mirror. This has a name, and it's called selfie's dysmorphy. I also know that there will be parents who know the disorder related to the popular videos of TikTok, who culminate in a functional deterioration for minors, who develop what neurodiatrics are calling "Tiktok tics", which looks like Tourette syndrome. I also know that some teenagers are lowering their own self-esteem as they spend more time on social networks. I also know that there is concern about the topics that are not being talked about because they continue to be a taboo, but that's not why they cease to exist, as is the easy access of minors to pornography from short ages and with contents that affect their own perception and the concept of sex and that also condition their future relationships. And, most serious, the role and impact that falls on women. Today, we have to talk about these issues, too. We have to address these kinds of issues in Galicia because we are starting from the great advantage of having an expert human capital in this highly recognized matter and which is leading, as I said before, advances in knowledge and scientific evidence in this area at national level. For all this, we have to take the glove of these professionals from the public university and carry out a matter that is urgent and that needs to be done, as it is a Greek program of health and digital cohabitation infantoxuvenil, which is integral and transversal, which includes actions coordinated at different levels - education, health, safety, family, social services, equality, etc. - which is community-based, with the participation of different institutions and social agents such as the Autonomous Administration, local entities, social agents, etc., which gives an effective response in time and form - we cannot expect, because the data is there - and that it is based on scientific evidence, because it is fundamental that it is based on this question and is piloted by experts, since we have them and refer to them at the national level. We must put ourselves in context and be aware that we are immersed in unprecedented events that will affect the health of all but especially those of the age group of children and also of adolescence. That's why we have to play in a context that we're perfectly aware that it's a deficit, considering that waiting lists in the mental health units infantewuvenil are inescapable for the problems we're talking about, thus hampering the good course that professionals themselves — the magnificent professionals we have in the Welsh public health — need to adequately care for minors with mental health problems. When the evidence is showing us that there are more and more family conflicts between parents and children; when the evidence is showing us worrying indices of cyberacoustics; when the evidence alerts us to lack of parental control and that even those who exercise it can sort out these native digitals, that often — as they know — control much more these kinds of technologies than their parents; when the evidence indicates that there are more and more sleep disorders in children because of the problematic use of technology; when the evidence shows us that there are increasingly eating disorders and poor eating habits related to the problematic use of technology; when all this happens, we have to take silent measures. There is no doubt that our proposal is a great challenge, but it is necessary and urgent, and it must be done because, at great challenges, great solutions are needed. And prevention of health in childhood will always be the smartest investment that an advanced society can make. I hope to have the whole House's consensus on a matter that affects us all, no matter what ideology we have. We understand that as citizens' representatives we must not only put this focus on the political agenda to move to public opinion, but we have a moral obligation to give powerful and ambitious solutions when it comes to the health of our children. I finish as I did in the previous plenary session, hoping that our children's self-esteem will never be measured by the number of likes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u34	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] - Adriana, if we're going well for a while, you'll tell me if you can stay for the whole debate. Can't you stay for the whole debate? [[Pause.]] Well, I'm sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, well, the idea was that they could stay. If they can't stay, we're not going to break the planning they have. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u35	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It's a shame you have to leave. I still remember when I came here to see Parliament; I remember where I sat. There was a good chubby bipartite. [[Laughter]] But, well, today, taking advantage of the Socialist Party's motion, I'm going to propose a challenge to everyone — including the colleagues in the Galician Nationalist Block; this goes for everyone and everyone. Surely — and don't worry, I'm the first — have a cell phone on your seat or even on your pocket, or have your laptop open with WhatsApp or even with Facebook, Twitter or any other platform. Well, without it being necessary for them to do it, I'm going to propose a challenge that is to endure -- to see if they do -- it may seem very easy, but you'll see how, in the end, it's much harder than it seems -- to the end of my speech without looking at it, without looking at the cell phone, without looking at the laptop, because this will give you a lot of the keys to this -- "do you do it?" -- it seems to me very well, president -- what is the reality, especially for youth. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, so -- I said this -- think now of a boy or a girl, for example, 15 years old -- let's say -- who has a smartphone like this -- that is, the absolute majority in today's day -- and that in less than a second he has access to everything he likes with just one click. [[Mr. Castro García shows his mobile phone.]] You can see on Twitter everything that happens to the second in the world, you can see on Instagram all the photos that your friends, actresses, actors, celebrities, sportsmen whom you idolize, you can enter TikTok and see your TikTokers doing their dances, which are on the trend, you can do the Sandbox and see Sandboxing, you can see the intimacy of those people you admire or those who feel interested in, you can enter into a pirate page, for example, to see the parties of any sports discipline of the clubs you follow, or — and you must also say so, because when you intervened last day the counselor in the interview..., and it is not a criticism, really — that you can access — that certain euphemisms have been used — when you want, in one second, to any pornographic content, which comes directly into the eyes of any person on the web, obviously. For this is the reality that our teenagers live — and not so many teenagers — of Greek, Welsh or anywhere in the world. And taking this into account, we have to say that through this -- something so small; some bigger than others -- because we can access instant pleasure like, wherever we want, at any time of the day...; and this, of course, has good things, but we already talk about it having very bad things. [[Mr. Castro García shows his mobile phone.]] This is no longer an analysis that I've done, of course, although part of my own experience is real, but you just have to read the Unicef Report on the impact of technology on adolescence, where there are two data that I think already leave it too clear. Because when the boys and the girls interviewed were asked what they felt when they went into the Internet — or when they went into the Internet — they said the following: 97.9% feel joy or laughter, and 82.9% feel pleasure or fun. So, I say, who here doesn't want to be happy or feel happy? For that we came to this life, to be happy and to feel pleasure. That's why we have to be aware that we are facing a very complex, very broad problem with a very high difficulty. Because the problematic use on the Internet has very serious and very diverse consequences -- the report itself says -- that affect many areas, and that therefore makes a more straightforward solution more difficult. They all appear in the data in Unicef's report — which they have already given, and they have also been given in the interpellation, and it's not a matter of repeating them all — but we're going to focus on a few that will also make us clear the gravity and the direction to which we need to direct the matter. 40.3% of the German adolescents — almost half — received messages of erotic-sexual content. 54.1% — more than half — accepted or accepted strangers on social networks — I did, of course, and I believe that many of us have certainly done so here. One in four ESO students has a problematic use of the Internet. And what is a problematic use of the Internet, in addition to what you can already suppose of these words? For such is the addiction — in addition to the uses and hours it does throughout the day, which are many— that this shows that it interferes in your life; the Internet interferes in your day-to-day development and in your relationship with your families, which is very serious. And I could say a lot more, a lot more, a lot more, very serious data, all of them, but I think with this we can all get an idea. So here we may come to the point of the question: what can we do? What can the Galician Union do about such a complex issue that it reaches so many countries? They've seen the other day in the interrogation that there's been a lot of arguments like "we're working on it," but, of course, it's a global problem, and families also have a lot to do, that's true. Because, in order not to say so, this is absolutely true, this is absolutely real, but then we have to focus on what more Galician Union can do. Did I already make Galician board as much as possible to make this happen? And the answer is, no, and I'm going to explain it objectively. The first one I think is already falling from the drawer because if they didn't want to do anything else and everything was already done, I don't think the comrades and comrades of the Socialist Party would bring this here in full. By passing on that reasonable question, let's go to the point that if everything was done, I understand that the people of Unicef would not ask for more support from administrations and institutions to carry out more actions. And we get to the third point, which is maybe where we look more euves. If you've done everything, why are the Galician Union and also the State Government still leaving a very important theme there in the ink, like online gambling and betting? But, as we are here today in the Galician Parliament, we are going to do something extremely revolutionary and we are going to talk about the Galician Union, because it is good to talk here in Galician Union, and in Parliament above all. It turns out that over 3,000 students from ESO in Galicia have already wagered money over the Internet on some occasion; over the Internet, we no longer go to betting houses, which are physically, in our country, too implanted, of course. It turns out that this reality is a real misfortune for many families, for many boys and girls and, above all, for their families and -- what a chance! -- as always, for many working-class families. Turns out the online bets grew along the pandemic. It turns out that, as always, they affect working-class neighborhoods to a greater extent, as I have already said, and it turns out that there are still bethouses around schools and institutes, which have already been scientifically shown that this reality affects the day-to-day study and lowers school performance. I think I'm just going, for example, through the streets of Compostela, to head quickly to Montero Ríos Street, with which I think you can make a rather frightening picture of what these betting houses are. And before that, the People's Party dedicates itself to today to assuming a game law that never comes, and we don't know why. So, as I didn't know why, I got to turn my head a little bit to figure out what might be the reasons that this game law never arrives that is so necessary in the face of a problem that all of us here will be able to agree that it's necessary to end it, right? So, I went to think and search the Internet -- like not? -- and I saw that even the Economic and Social Council, chaired by an old environmental adviser of the People's Party, a lover of the cleaning of the rivers, said the following -- certain words, literal words of the report -- "Some fragments of the text seem to affect the naturalization of activity, putting it in value, leaving almost aside the serious problems it has caused." That is what the President of the ESC said. He also said: "It's born with important eaves, as it all sets up a game regulation based almost entirely on traditional modes, and practically does not regulate the figure of the online game, to which the majority accesses the population." I think it makes quite clear, doesn't it? Having said this, then I may have been on a more squabbling subject, which is the popular party's link to betting houses. And I'm not going to go into much detail, I'm just going to say two very specific things, like there's even journalistic works already made books that focus only on the relationship of the People's Party with betting houses, like the book "Play, play, damn it!" in 2020, by Luis Díez and Daniel Díez; or that there are also other incidents that occur a lot in the People's Party, as they happen to appear in the summary of the plot Gürtel the lords of Luckia, the brothers González Fuentes, Greeks — Feijo has given them a lot of prizes, if they look at Google, for example — as donors of 100,000 euros to the People's Party. We're going to give these things to the family. But, well, I don't want much to raise the tone, as if to say, but this is the reality that prevails. These are, of course, some of the occurrences that make us think: why wouldn't the People's Party take that game law to this day to end up with a problem that we all agree on here, as are those of online bets, which cause so much damage? For this reason, our amendment, which we do to end this serious problem and to solve it in an absolutely proactive way, because it seems to us very interesting and very necessary this initiative of the Socialist Party, is for the Galician Union and also the Government of the State to do what they need and that they have promised the greatest of the cures. I'm done already because I think they behaved pretty well, the truth -- I'm now very a teacher, they cared a lot about it. The question was, how many times have you looked at your cell phone in these 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u36	Thank you. None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u38	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame the boys and girls aren't listening to this debate, because the truth is we'd certainly make them think or think about the use of new technologies. A particularly affectionate and academic greeting to Professor Rial Boubeta, who accompanies us, who I know is a person who has been working in this field for many years and deserves all our respect and admiration for the work he does. He is a great expert on this subject and always enlightens us with objective data -- which is the important thing -- on which to work -- on these issues, to make decisions soon and implement appropriate public policies. And to get to know reality, it's important to do those studies and those diagnoses, which are done, in this case, from your team and working on how Professor Rial Boubeta works. I also want to make a special recognition to all entities in the third sector, who have appointed the Socialist Member, but also to many others, because we in the People's Party believe in the pluralism of well-being. We believe that the public administration cannot reach all sides, that we have to have social entities, associations that work, above all, very specific themes and that they are the great acquaintances of many of the different problems that arise every day in society. Without them we wouldn't live in a better world and couldn't achieve a better society. Both in the field of health and in the field of social policy, in the field of equality, and in any field of equality, every day we see that when a person has a problem in his or her home, in his or her family, with a child, the first one to attend is a specialized association in that field. So all my respect for the people who work in the third sector. Today we have a very interesting and very topical debate, and since the People's Parliamentary Group we have addressed it on different occasions and from different perspectives. It's about addressing the abuse that new technologies and social networks do on Thursdays and adolescents. They will remember how last year, in November, we passed a bill, the People's Parliamentary Group proposal, to incorporate digital violence as one of the forms of gender-based violence. The use of social networks by young people has to be free of risks, and that's why it needs to be addressed from public policy. Mr. Castro said it and he gave the report's data on issues such as sexting -- unconsensual sexting -- grooming, cybersexuals -- well, I think today we're going to talk about other things, but also that data is very important and I think with that bill we passed in November we also took a giant step in intervention in digital violence. And today the debate we are discussing is the abuse of minors, of new technologies, of social networks, of the Internet and of electronic devices. What needs to be done is that the use of technologies is not harmful in itself, but rather that what causes problems is that they are given a high amount of time to these activities and that others are left aside that are necessary for proper physical and mental development in childhood and adolescence. We think it's a more global strategy. Not only must we limit access to electronic devices, but we must be able to use them properly, without neglecting, as it said, other needs of the person, such as physical exercise, the number of hours of daily sleep, presence social relationships, knowledge and appreciation of the environment, etc. We are mothers and parents of teenage children, we see how children every day try to make time for the use of new technologies. The report says that family discussions about the use of new technologies occur once a week. My son calls me heavy because I think the discussion in my house is daily. The other day we were talking to the comrades, when we heard that data. Well, it's in my house every day. I suppose it's going to be an average, but mostly every day the boys try to make room for the use of new technologies, and, in view of that, families have to put on a containment dam, put on a set of rules, and that's fundamental. Mr. Castro, like an incisus, because it's not the debate, although it's a very important question about online gambling, I want to tell you that since he likes to get on the internet and "google," I ask him to look for some news like, "The Board is indignant at the employer of the game," "It's the destruction of the sector" or "The gaming companies are revolting against the board." I'm saying that because that convolence that you assume is completely false between the Board and the employer's sector. Well, I'm not going to go into all the data that the Unicef report brings. You've been talking here at the counsellor's inquiry, they've given the previous speakers the data, but I do want to give someone you didn't say. It reflects in most comparatives a less alarming perception -- not much, a little -- between the student in Greek compared to the Spanish average. And so, for example, the problematic use of the Internet in Spain is 33% and Galicia is 27%; the use of social networks in Spain is 61.5 % and in Galicia, 59.1%. And, for example, the problematic use of video games in Spain is 16.7% and Galicia is 15.7%. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, I was moving forward earlier as a mother that the family has a fundamental role, and we have to be very aware that in this problem is the key role of family education. It's a mistake to blame a public administration for abusive use of the Internet by minors; or, if they prefer, the Administration will never be able to supplement the educational work and parental control that parents have to do. We don't agree with the theory of former Celaá. Do they remember what he said: Can we not think in any way that the children belong to the parents? We do not agree with that statement. We consider education important at home. Prevention must be in the rules that are set in the family, in how many hours they are devoted to the use of the Internet at home, whether electronic devices have parental control or not. The role of families is key, and Unicef's own report does not say that of the People's Parliamentary Group or this Member. It says the Unicef report that more than 70% of the progenitors don't set rules on the use of technologies for relationship, information and communication, and that more than 75% of the boys have no time limit. It's something the boys themselves recognize. And, for example, on page 49 of the report, says textually: that parents establish a number of rules regarding the use of devices, although it does not imply a reduction in the problematic use of the Internet, it does imply a significant decrease in much of the online risks. We therefore believe that the role of families is important. And the Galician Union we also think it's doing things. We are faced with a situation whose approach has to be integral and transversal. And we can't say we're starting from scratch. Together, in the different departments, it's acting and implementing measures to prevent and respond to situations of problematic use of the Internet and new technologies. You put in your initiative a plan of health and coexistence. We believe that we cannot focus solely on health, we think we need to talk about a package of cross-sectional measures that start from health, from education, from social policy and from equality, and not only central to the Anpa. I think all social agents are important, because there are programs -- I'm not going to quote here everyone who's doing this together -- like, for example, "Browse for cyberspace," in collaboration with the College of Computer Engineers, which are important. I think there are a lot of social agents who can participate, help and collaborate on this which involves us all society, the public administration, families, also professional schools, the Anpas and other administrations, as can be the University or how it can be the Fegamp, which you quote at your initiative. We present a nuanced amendment, Mrs Ortega. You know that we want to reach agreement on this initiative, and I think that all groups should put the interests of childhood and adolescence above our political interests. I hope that we can reach an agreement, that these nuances can be cleaned up and that in the morning we can reach a text of consensus. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The 5th and 6th primary students from downtown Cabanas have just entered Pontevedra. We welcome Parliament and its teachers, who are accompanying them today. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u41	Thank you, President. I welcome the students from downtown Cabana. I thank you for being here, and I thank your teachers too, because it just coincides with the fact that this debate is of great interest to you, because we are talking about the new technologies, the good part -- which have a positive part -- but also the other part, because they have a part that we have to control, a part of the risk to the minors, which is a problem for public health and also for our own family life in Galicia. And that transcends other levels, but what we're doing here is Galicia. I am also glad that these students are attending this debate because sometimes you can see on television, perhaps parliaments and overcome other types of discussions, another kind of difference between political parties. But I think that, in this case, given that it is a sensitive problem that affects us all and that it does not deal with political colors, because we have a lot of agreements between the three parties here representing Greek citizenship, such as those here. First of all, I would like to thank the political parties represented, in this case, by Mrs Prado and Mr Castro, for their support, for the interest in this initiative, which I believe is something which, as I said before, affects us all and that it is a social problem. We are moving that this proposal is part of an initiative, of experts on the subject, and we cannot replace anything in any case. As both rapporteurs from the People's Parliamentary Groups and the Galego Nationalist Bloc said, they must enrich, be coordinated, cross-sectional and address a lot of the issues through what we are discussing here today from the Socialist Party. But we also have to appreciate that it is wide, that it can really reach those key places for the very preventive technicians we have in Galicia, such as the additive disorder plan, which is not updated in 2016. Given that it was developed in 2010, it is certain that we have many things to update, and since the Greek Government itself, I think that, surely, these kinds of issues have to be updated and adapted to the real context, which, as you know, has changed a lot in recent years, but especially in the last two years. The problematic use of technology, as you know, covers many areas and cannot be limited to isolated or timely actions, but must be global. So here today we hope to be able to reach a consensus from all parties to have a Greek program with all those measures that we are talking about to minimize the risks posed by technologies, that face of the currency that hides dangers for our minors and also for family coexistence, as we said earlier. These kinds of issues can be noted that they are integral and transversal, but also that they are Community, with an effective response in time and form and based, of course, on scientific evidence. And, as the professionals here say, we have to take a giant step. We have to go one step further, because it's true that things have been done, that must also be said, but we have to get worried about ourselves, as the professionals themselves are telling us. Preventing the health of the infant and youth population is one of the smartest and most profitable political actions we can carry out from any government in any advanced society. That's why I think it affects both smaller and larger, of course. It's just that, as Mr. Castro said, the elders are also very short of time without looking at the mobile, without being on the watch of technology. But it's true that when we have a native infant-juvenile population digitally, when it hasn't really formed its own personality yet, when they're not really formed even at brain level, we have to put these kinds of issues on the table to shield our minors, to minimize the risks. Because it is clear that zero risk does not exist, nor will there ever exist, but we must minimize the risks, because it is a fundamental issue. And at the same time that Junta announced about a million euros to drive the industry of viodeogames, as I told the advisor, and that it is important, because we are point-to-points in this sense, we have to accompany these kinds of measures on the other side of the coin, the face of the rich and the prevention that we have to carry out to shield our minors and also our own families, because, as we pointed out here, that 22.6% of families indicate that once a week they have discussions with their children and children. Many people who are seeing us probably feel identified, and their own children are likely to scold their parents many times because they want to spend more time playing. But, well, we have to listen to these kinds of issues so that this parental control really blinds the health of minors and we can take letters in a matter that is fundamental. And it is true that the events of the last few weeks give priority to very serious issues, in this case in our country, but we cannot forget the urgent issues we have in the Greek agenda either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u42	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u43	We're pending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u44	...of a transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u45	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u46	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Government of Galicia regarding the presence of attention in the bank
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u47	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u48	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. We also welcome the students and students who accompany us. As you can detect, I'm a little out of my mind; therefore, preventively, in case I'm left with no voice, I refer to the saying in the previous plenary and to the writing in the motion. In any case, I wanted to start today by reminding some headlines that we're dawning today, for example, O Faro de Vigo: "The impact of war absorbs the electric tariff in the shopping basket." [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños reads press headlines.]] Another newspaper: "Light and oil beat record. Today the light, 545 euros the megawatt, the most expensive in history." Titleers like these bring us back to the situation our country is experiencing today. We have an absolutely unabated price rise in basic products, and this represents a growing difficulty for more and more people, and we have an aggravated context, in addition to the war conflict. It's there, it makes the situation worse, but we've already come from a context of very high price increases. We had the highest inflation of the last thirty-three years, and this is brutal in economic terms, but we would like to stop now a little in how it affects the majority of society, in how it affects many homes in our country, and in addition, it creates a growing broth so that, precisely, the banking abuses we want to talk about today are more intensive and therefore it is necessary for the Council of Galicia to rectify its permanent strike of arms falling in this area and do something to protect neighbouring. We must therefore ask ourselves, as is the situation of society, of the Greeks and the Greeks, who have to do their business every day to arrive at the end of the month, and the truth is that it does not give too much resistance capacity. We can remember, for example, that in this country the average wage of the Greeks and the Greeks is 600 euros less than the average state wage, we can remember that we have the lowest pensions, we can see the latest statistics of the Galego Institute of Statistics, which told us about income in homes and collected as in 2020 average monthly income decreased by 0.77%, remaining at 2,277 euros. We also said that in that statistic, by kind of households, precisely those that are worse, who have worse conditions, as can be, for example, monoparents, led mostly by women, also saw how their average salary decreased, and we also know that in this country this wage gap, although illegal, still exceeds 4,000 euros a year today. And we know that women are the ones who lead the greatest odds of temporality, precariousness and partiality. And also, speaking of social exclusion, we need to remember the data given to us by the Greek Network against poverty, that more than a quarter of the population of this country has or is at risk of social exclusion and therefore we have 40,000 more people in the 2020 data in that situation. That's the picture. And with that picture, one question has to be asked. We have to think about any home in this country; a normal home that doesn't have great luxury in its daily life, but that can afford some extra, like unexpected or holiday. In this context, what happens? What can happen to you and how can you react? I imagine, for example, that the bill of light came to you, after several months of delay, with an increase in the unprecedented prices in our history. Let's think you've got some contingency, which you have to pay, for example, an endodontic, something that is almost impossible for you to do in public health in this country. For it would be a normal home, which has an average price rise that you have to assume, like those in the shopping cart or gasoline to go to work, at least 300 euros more than it cost you to develop your daily life without great luxury a year or a year and a half ago and which, above all, you have to make an extra - we calculate - about five hundred euros. Well probably a lot of homes in that situation, what they're going to do is knock on a bank door, borrow some kind of loan with some of those wonderful cards that announce us 24 hours a day on radios and televisions, or you might even fall into some default, in late bills or in having to pay some interest. So we have to think, in those medium-sized homes, what situation they'll find when they're going to go to the door of a bank. And surely many of them will not even find someone to open them. And I'm not making this metaphor for speaking here again — which we must remember — of the banking entities that have been closing and that have been firing their workers and workers, but that, surely, this middle home of a Welshman or a Galician anyone is no longer interested in banking entities; for example, for the People's Party's favorite banking entity, as we saw fifteen days ago, that Abanca entity, which during confinement has increased its commissions, and which also marked a little line of what other entities are doing, which is that those customers who are not juicy, who do not have large wages, large savings, are not interesting and must be driven out of the banking system. For example, Abanca, in that month of confinement, decided that those customers who don't have a payroll, who don't have an expense of 1,200-1000 euros a year with a credit card and that they have less than 30,000 euros saved -- look, 30,000 euros saved, that anyone is not able to have that count! -- because they're not interesting; then, we're going to hug them to see if they go. With this example, what I want to reflect is that financial exclusion -- we talk a lot of times about the rural environment, how it's going to impede access to services, we often talk, especially in the last plenary, about how it affects the older people for an exclusive digitisation, about situations like this -- it's a first-order problem in our economic framework today; it's a growing problem and it's a problem that is already affecting most of society. It's not anecdotal or small or residual. So, just as we warned about the closure of banking offices and we said, "Look!" this is not a rural versus urban problem, it's also happening in cities and it's going to happen more and more, because financial exclusion is happening the same; it's something more and more frequent in families, homes and people that up to now, when they needed for any unexpected, by any matter or by a life plan, to go to a banking entity, they weren't excluded, and now yes. So, with this example, what we want is to put on the table that this greed of banking that has no limits today is also going to be an important problem for many people who find themselves in social vulnerability. So, if we had that context of what we were talking about, more than 100,000 jobs have been lost in recent years, in which offices have been closed -- Galicia was the third community that most entities have closed, with a decrease of 14.70%, with the latest data from the Banco de España -- in which we saw a brutal increase -- in financial exclusion for reasons often physical accessibility or accessibility for technical knowledge, but that is going to increase -- and this insists on the latest report from the European Network against Poverty on Financial Inclusion, that alerts us to the seriousness of the situation and that this has consequences on society at a time of adverse economic circumstances -- in what there are over-debted, there are abuses, personal bankruptcys, housing losses that could be avoided, there is also impoverishment by use rather than feeling relief, because this, in a context as in what we live, is directly a molotov cocktail, a focus of abuse and scams. And here we know that the bank only cares about its cash, increasing its profits and profitability. But we must ask ourselves, what does it matter to the German Government? What do you care about the People's Party? Because the problem is that it seems to give you absolutely the same. We saw him in the previous interpellation, with an absolutely conformist and prefabricated speech of the councillor of Fairy, who came here simply to defend this innovative tactic of the Greek Government that, if an entity shuts down the services, we will give him public money to keep him closing, that we have already paid him. [[Applause]] So today, what we want to propose with this motion is to learn what happened in the last year and peak. We saw that banking agencies, for example, agreed on cash and that nobody here was acting, that the Government did not act, defending the rights of consumers and consumers, and that the Government of the State waited until the last moment to act. It was simply social controversy, mobilization, which was at least able to resolve the situation. We expect that agreement between the employer and the central government, but we think it won't solve all the existing problems. So we bring this motion precisely so that the Galician Union will do something and activate its exclusive powers to defend the interests of society in four directions. First — we insist — this policy of gifts needs to be rectified to the bank. This policy of public aid needs to be rectified because it contributes to the so-called end-of-service effect. Central Government must be required to speed up regulatory reform so that a number of minimum services are guaranteed. We must also strengthen the Galego Institute of Consumers, for a simple reason, because we have competences in consumer and consumer protection, we have instruments and, therefore, we must develop them. We propose that more capacity be given for sanctioning and research to banking entities in products such as the basic account to see if they are being complied with and that progress is also being made in the study of the reality of the financial exclusion of this country. And we also propose that training and action be promoted in the field of social services, which is something where the networks against poverty are insisting; that training be given so that the most vulnerable people can be transferred as to protect themselves and to guard against taking them. And finally, to require bank institutions operating in our country to stop the dismantling of services. In conclusion, Galicia has exclusive competences in the field of consumption, it has competences in the field of economic planning. What it needs is for the People's Party to stop spending its time solving the very problems of the People's Party, which is dedicated to ruling, and finally to putting itself not on the bank's side but on the people's side. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my intervention by solidarity and supporting, as always, this 8 March, a day for the defence of real equality between women and men; one day to commit ourselves to the feminist agenda, which allows a country to move forward, because there are many challenges yet to be covered to boost the role of women in politics, society, the economy and our world, and because in other parts of the world the challenge of equality is still a more pending subject. So today we also call all the Greeks and all the Greeks so they're on the street to support the cause of feminism, the cause of women, which is the cause of all of them. [[Applause]] I would also like to speak in this intervention of the situation — as the Galego Nationalist Block's economic spokesman said — that we are living at the moment, a situation in which the economy is facing enormous challenges. It is a situation in which the events of the invasion and war in Ukraine are involving a new world in all fields and also in the economic issue. And so it's time to have to turn on all the lights to get us to work on a world that's going to be different and that's going to affect all of us; also a government of the Galician Union, which seems to be absent, that seems to have no schedule or challenge for what remains in this legislation. And we're going to keep seeing it in every aspect that we have; today, for example, when we talk about financial exclusion. We cannot allow the Government of the People's Party, the People's Party of Galicia, to debate who is the heir of the Government of the Union instead of working for the Greeks and for the Greeks. We cannot allow the People's Party to convert what is left of this legislation in the minutes of the trash, as happens in the NBA when the party is already won, where the ball is passed and the party is not solved, and here the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks are not solved. We cannot allow the People's Party to continue to see for air or to see for itself, instead of seeing for a country that needs answers in health care, education, in so many areas... and also in the economic field. And that's why it's time for them to focus on Galicia and don't despair themselves by turning into minutes of garbage a legislation that is fundamental to a new environment and new environments. And in that challenge, we have a Galician who has a pending subject in rural areas. In 13 years of Mr. Feijóo's rule in front of the Union, the rural environment was abandoned. They promised us rural legislation and made a constant abandonment of the rural environment in Galicia, without demographic impulse, without the impulse of services on equal footing, without support for the Greeks and Greeks living in so many rural municipalities with less services and less rights to equality. And that's why we socialists continue to flag and defend equality in all areas so that there is no German or a Galician who, for reasons of age, disability or where he lives, may lose rights to face the challenges of the future. And that's why we know that in an advanced country model financial exclusion is a loss of rights. There's no 21st-century citizenship if we don't have the right to financial inclusion for all and for all. And in a Galicia where there are 45 municipalities in which there are no financial entities, in a Galicia where in the last year more than a hundred bank offices have been shut down in different municipalities, in a Galicia where there have already been several municipalities that have stopped having bank offices and have none, the Government of the PP has to turn its task into answers to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's an agenda with which we are committed to socialists and socialists. We are because it is the challenge of the future, but because we also want to avoid a Galician depopulation, a Galician lack of impulse in rural areas, a Galician where there are first and second citizens. And that is why throughout all this legislation we have maintained a clear commitment to constant initiatives — much of them driven by our colleague Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera — by claiming that financial inclusion in so many parts of Galicia; for example, specifically in the provinces of the interior — in Ourense and Lugo — but specifically in Ourense, where there are more municipalities without any financial entity. We need to resume the work schedule. I was very worried listening to the counselor the other day, because the counselor what he came to say is that he had no commitment, no task or challenge from the scope of the powers of the Board to improve the financial inclusion of the Greeks and the Greeks. The counsellor here the other day, in his speech, came to see that the Government of Galicia is absent, which converts what is left of legislation in the minutes of the garbage they don't want to rule and in those where there is no agenda, no task, no challenges for the citizens of this country. And that's a wrong path at a time when the Government of Spain and the state as a whole are expanding innovation and mechanisms of action. They are expanding when a plan of measures has been agreed in the Senate itself, through the Consumer and User Protection Act against Vulnerable Situations, to put in place all means that allow personalized attention without discrimination by digital divide. It's that mechanisms were sought with important measures that were later drawn up also in an agreement with the bank, with the Confederation of Savings Boxes, with the Spanish Bank Association and with cooperatives, to also seek important measures that imply a boost: the expansion of cash schedules from nine to two, the help to so many telephone care mechanisms, the help of cashiers, more staff in the institutions... ultimately, there is a work schedule from state institutions that involve a period of three months in the legislative field and a period of six months to make effective those agreements with the bank. And if the Government of Spain is moving chips and working, the Government of Galicia has the responsibility to move chips too and to work. It can't be that the People's Party still wants to be the great ally of this country's bank, the one who managed an operation in which 9,000 million euros were delivered to the old boxes so that this country had no financial entities anchored in the territory and sold them in a round business for 1 billion euros. They continue without opening the Box Research Committee, and in addition to not taking action, they are invited to stone as far as they go. [[Applause]] Because if anything we've had to say is that this Union government doesn't know. The counsellor came the other day to announce two major measures, and the first of them was to point out that the financial institution with the greatest deployment in Galicia had announced weeks before it would shut down no offices in those municipalities where only one existed. From the news the Government of Galicia met on television. The Government of Galician Union neither pushed nor reached agreements with its great allies and even the country bank took steps to help the financial inclusion without the Galician Union doing anything. That's right, he's committed to delivering millions of euros to keep cash boxes where offices are closed. That's the idea of a government that's undernourished, of a government that has no task of government, that has no commitment and that has no action. Of course, it's important that cash schedules be extended to care for the most vulnerable. Of course, it's important they don't close offices where only one remains. These are announcements and commitments from the bank through the measures being taken at the state level. But the Government of the United States didn't do it or does it seem to do it. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to work for citizenship in Galicia with rights and financial inclusion, to work through your skills in consumption, in economics, in the matter of the country, within self-government, in what can be done, and to refuse and rectify a Business Council that comes to this Parliament to say that it will not do anything for the financial inclusion of the Greeks and Greeks with disabilities in rural and those who have the most difficulties. They suspend their advisor and put the government, the PP gentlemen, to work, because the rural Galicia can't continue to be without a job or any questions to make. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, that financial inclusion makes us citizens of a country with more rights, and that, in addition to adopting a law of demographic impulse which is wet paper, they have to take steps to push the fundamental issues so that citizens can be on the territory. That is why, of course, we will continue to maintain from the Socialist Parliament's Group a permanent agenda of commitment to Galicia's rural environment, an agenda of commitment to financial inclusion, and that we will, of course, always have a commitment that materialises on specific issues to advance these issues. We believe that the initiative, the motion that is brought to the full, is positive, and we complement it with measures that involve a letter of services that must provide financial services throughout the country through measures that are legally viable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u53	...to allow for preferential attention to persons with disabilities, the elderly and the citizens of rural areas, and an explicit commitment that at the end of this legislation there will not be a single council in Galicia that loses face-to-face attention. Where there's only one office you can't close, that's what the financial institutions now say. What you guys have to commit to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u55	...it's the one where they've closed them. And that's what the PP government has to push. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliamentary House bears witness to the many initiatives that each of the political groups presents to the detriment of the effects of financial exclusion on consumers. And there, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed. Mrs. Presas began by asking what the People's Party cares about. Yes, Mrs Presas, what matters to the People's Party is also the high price of electricity, which today will reach the 700 euros megawatt/hour; what matters to the People's Party is unabated inflation; and it also matters the increase in the price of fuel. Madam Presas, the price of mega-hour is not high this week, it's been high months; months since you pressed that green button to give the government to Pedro Sánchez. That's what you should be more concerned about. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Knight, I know you're very concerned about political parties. Maybe you don't want to answer me precisely because the price of megavatio/hour today will reach the peak of the 700 euros. Maybe you don't want to answer those questions, probably because you're not interested, probably because it's not a priority for your government. What is a priority and what we are aware of from the People's Party is that we are facing a big problem, which is what brings us to the debate today on the motion of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the difficulties of access to financial and banking services. And public administrations must be up to it and give an immediate response to that problem. Mrs. Presas, you're focusing your motion on six points that I think it's worth one by one, because you'll understand that your requests are unequivocal. And I'm basically telling you why you're wrong in your planning. At your first point, you're telling me to rectify the policy of the grant. Look, both you and Mr. Caballero - and earlier the other spokesman, who had the honour to be able to debate with him on this issue - have told me on several occasions that the agreement between Fegamp and Junta for the installation of ATMs in municipalities that have no office is an effect called. Last week, in the face of these accusations which have been made on numerous occasions, I did a research work, thanks to the Members of my parliamentary group. And look, in the Greek municipalities, Oímbra closed the bank in December 2012; in Baltar, he closed Abanca - as much as was said - in 2012; in Raiiz de Veiga, he closed Abanca in 2014 and Santander in 2016; in Junqueira de Espadañedo, the banking office closed in 2016. And now they want to tell me that the convention signed in 2020 is an effect called. Man, you should be a little more serious and a little more rigorous. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I know the arguments that you have remain well, but, gentlemen, we do not admit pulp as a pet; for now, no. I know you don't like it, because you don't like it; you don't like it, but the mayors who rule the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego are interested. Of course they're interested in because they're really worried about their neighbors and they want to give them a financial service of what they currently lack, after not giving them a reply from the Central Government. You say in the second point, "Asking the Central Government to change the regulation of the financial sector." We agree, Mrs. Presas, we agree. And, of course, it's one of the complaints that this parliamentary group has made on several occasions and since the German Government. However, you, whenever we brought initiatives by the People's Group, had that neutral position of abstention, because it is not going to be that we vote in favour, just like the People's Party, and that you don't like your government partners very much. I think it should also be remembered that we spoke here at the Galego Institute of Consumption - which also brings to the third point of your motion - that it looks at the rights of consumers, doing this advisory work, and, as you also said, what it is for the protection of consumers. Having clarified that work that the institute performs, it's good, to answer, to tie it up with some of the points you bring in the motion, exactly with point 5. I remind you that the Galego Institute of Consumer and Competition is currently conducting information workshops on financial matters in collaboration with the municipalities, with the Galaga Federation of Associations and also with Caritas, with the aim of prioritizing these most vulnerable groups. And by putting in data, because the data is the best evidence, right? I'll tell you that during the year 2021 the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition attended 40.047 consultations, compared to 39,000 in 2020. And of those 40,000 I am referring to, 1,809 — which are consumer protection consultations, never sanctions, and I will talk about this later — are precisely the financial sector. I believe, Mrs. Presas, that within the scope of the institute's exclusive competences, it develops its work, and, by data, an effective, appropriate and, of course, committed work. What is curious is that the spokespersons who preceded me in the use of the word, who are aware that the Instituto Galego de Consumo does not, within their powers, have the task of inspector and sanctioning... No, no, Mrs. Presas, that's against the Banco de España. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look at the rules. I'm just telling you. And it doesn't seem like he should be exercising it, since you make the claims. However, they are able, in Article 82(4) of Royal Decree Law 24/2021, to unilaterally attribute the powers that are assigned to the autonomous communities, and thus limit that autonomous communities may sanction, as it may be to the electric communities. And explain it; explain it to them. What the central government wants is that, where we have no competences, we act; that's what the Galician Nationalist Block wants. And where we have powers, which is what the Socialist Party wants, they want to take them away from us. That's what nationalists and socialists want. And, Mr. Caballero, what surprises me of you... well, of your parliamentary group, is the amendment of addition that you bring. At the previous plenary meeting he assumed and recognized that it was the Government of the State which should regulate state financial legislation. And I wonder, what's changed from fifteen days ago to today? He'll tell me when he has a chance, because now it seems like you're back a little bit on foot. The German Government is preparing a strategic plan against financial exclusion. But it's up to the State Government! And I'm not saying it. To believe me, tell him your branch minister, Mrs. Calvin, number two of his government, the state government. The same week, fifteen days ago, this Parliamentary House alone approved an initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group on the need to prepare a study with the Banco de España and the National Committee on the Market in Values and Competition. At the same time, a protocol was signed in Madrid between Minister Calvin and financial institutions. And if you like, I can pass it, here are the points that were discussed. And what a coincidence!, the three points of your amendment, Mr. Knight, are collected in that protocol drawn up by the Government of Spain. And you know why, Mr. Knight? I'll tell you. Because the powers fall — if — in the Central Government, in the First Vice-Presidentship on Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Yes, yes, Mrs. Calvin. [[Mr. Knight Miguez denies with his head from his chair.]] I told her I didn't tell her, she said it herself. You speak in point 7.1 of your personalised addition of basic financial services to vulnerable users. You have read the first article, the second article and the fourth article, within the Protocol. As for the second point, "insure financial services to all people, making fincapé in the rural environment," sixth point. As for the last point in your addition amendment, that's the plan you're referring to, and it's signed since the end of 2020, after months of work during the year 2019. It's an agreement between Fegamp and the German Government, which I don't know if, perhaps, you don't know, but, look, it's installing automatic cash boxes on municipal premises. Which, by the way, is already a reality, gentlemen. In the Austrian municipality of Arnoia they already have that ATM. But not just an automatic cashier, but also providing a financial assistance service that solves the doubts that consumers may have of financial products face-to-face. And of course also financial training and electronic banking. An initiative, ladies and gentlemen, that other administrations begin to imitate, but that is much more complete and that does not just install an automatic cashier. It's an attractive alternative for many municipalities, specifically for 38 Greek municipalities of different political colors. And you know why? Because it was the only solution for many of the unofficed municipalities, given the inaction of the Central Government since the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. And it's over, Mr. President. From the German nationalists we already know that everything you have to do, Mrs. Presas, with the People's Party has a grip. And to show, one button: Mayors of the Galego Nationalist Block Sign up and recognize that they are being given a bank and financial service with this kind of arrangement and at no cost to the local administration. However, the Bloc, in the Greek Parliament, criticizes even satiety. But the amazing thing is that of the Socialist Party. Mr. Knight, I am surprised, indeed, and I tell you from the cordiality that you are supposed to represent a party of government, a party that governs Spain, which has full powers to promote a regulation that regulates the universal provision of basic financial services; a State Socialist Party, which recognizes and undertakes to guarantee banking services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u59	...and the needs of consumers. However — and I am finished, Mr President — I listen to you, I read your amendment, and I think it has nothing to do with your world, with the real world. Are you in favour of your minister, minister Calvin, or do you accept what the Galician Nationalist Block tells you? Look, you go that way; you probably get nationalists and socialists. Of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u61	...the populars will continue on the way alongside the Greeks, solving their problems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Socialist Group for its position and also for the amendment, which we have no problem accepting because we share that it is indeed constructive and that it complements our demand. That said, Mrs. Vázquez, I see you haven't listened to what we said. Normal! my tone of voice is not to be heeded by anyone. It's better to turn down the volume and not listen to me. But look, of course we don't share at all the conformism that you have, and I already tell you, if Mr. Corgos doesn't leave with Feijó or you don't either, if they want to change jobs, I'm sure Mr. Escotet is looking for a job, because of course what they did again here was to repeat the same mantras of the private entity. [[Applause]] They fail to thank them for the good they are, which will lose 2,000 euros per cashier, according to their own data, when their profits have not stopped increasing in 2021. Of course, we are concerned about the price of light, Mrs Vázquez. We have been bringing initiatives to this Parliament for a long time, also when you were still ruling in the Spanish state, because precisely the problem of the current electrical framework is that, for example, gas conditions or extorts the final price that we pay consumers. It's his model, it's the model of the People's Party, of the two laws that existed at the state level. So, welcome to worry about the problem of light; just what they have to do is listen to BNG's proposals. [[Applause]] And we also have a great deal of concern about the effects of inflation on Greek society. So when we dealt with the budgets in this House two days ago, for example, and if there was a forecast to close the year with the highest inflation in the last thirty-three years, we said that it was an insult to the intelligence that you applied an IRPF reform that for those who charge more than one hundred and sixty thousand euros a year will save more than five hundred and for those who charge a thousand and peak euros a month will have a savings of twelve euros a year, because these twelve euros a year don't even give them to pipes, Mrs Vázquez. In any case, to answer one of the questions you were asking, I say that once again we have the argument of "the mayors." Of course, Junta makes an arrangement that requires the Fegamp, and there are mayors to take in, because there's no other remedy left, to try to get a cashier in his county. And then that's automatically a referendum that the mass mayors of this country are in favour of giving public money to the banking institutions. No, Mrs. Vázquez, what happens is that sometimes it's the lesser evil; just like that protocol you did for the doing business councils, and then, if you weren't putting your council in that chiringuitate, you couldn't ask for certain help for the job. And what happened -- because it's one of these cases of "what happened then will surprise you" --? [[Applause]] Because TSX condemned the Union for discriminating the Greek municipalities. It's just that you have to amend the plane! And that's what happens to the policies of the German Government with regard to the municipalities, which is of extortion and lack of dialogue. [[Applause]] And look, he's, by the way, missing the independentists' argument, saying that the independentists on the whole planet are in favor of giving money to the public bank. You missed that argument, but I also tell you: if you want to copy, just like you copied the Valencian model, because you can copy the Catalan model, for example, of trying to drive a public bank, reforming the Galego Institute of Credit. Anyway, look, you talked about the Galego Institute of Consumption. Of course, the Galician Consumer Institute responds to the claims of the Welsh and Welsh people who go there and ask for attention to claim. Just missing! But what we're talking about here is that it has functions to be proactive and to investigate, for example, whether we're meeting issues like the basic account. If they don't, it's because you're there with your arms closed, and if the Greeks go, until, until, until very well, they do a great job, but that's insufficient in this context. And we're asking for skills to be developed. And it has already been done in this country, because it is that you were ruling when you were forced by social pressure to enable offices to answer the question of preference, for example! So what we're saying is that, before there's a very serious problem, you do something from that point of view. Also, he came back again with the mantra that we did not claim the state. Look, ma'am, we have repeatedly called for changes in state regulation while you were ruling and ruling the Socialist Party as well, and we will continue to do so. And there's a specific point on this initiative that you wanted to ignore, as you also ignored a point that for us is key to attention to social services. Because we have to train those who work with people in social exclusion to warn them of this situation and so they can also give them keys to protect themselves. So you were talking about BNG's proposals being unequivocal. "Unmistakably" means no possibility of doubt or error. We are not so strong, we don't usually say that our proposals are unequivocal, but, if the People's Party says so, thank you very much and vote in favour. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u64	A lot of gases, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xoese Luís Rivas Cruz, on the environmental policy of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u65	Two amendments were tabled, one on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and one on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u66	To formulate the motion, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Many years ago, more than forty, in the conversation, pins and folklore collections that followed at the end of a concert, on a teleclub, asked one of those men of smoke, bread and years of experience for his opinion around the recent autonomy, he said, "Looks like he's going and going, but he's not going." And so it is with them. The Limia was quiet, nothing moved since 2019, and suddenly, after a question in committee and the interpellation of the other day, yesterday itself — casual chance! — the Counsellor, accompanied by the Director General of Rural Development and the territorial delegate, gather the Committee on the Follow-up of the Limia and it seems to go and go, but it does not go. Exciting words, of course, recognition and thanks to all the living forces of the region, in particular farmers and livestock, for their determination to move forward in "sustainability" - in sustainability! - of their exploitation. Let someone from the PP explain to me for the kid, please, what you understand about sustainability. Is this our farming activity, which is based on 41% of the cereal that is produced, which produces the Portuguese UAE - the useful area of Greece - located 4,000 kilometers in the plains of Ukraine today in war? Or will it be by chance the useful agrarian surface located on the other side of the sea, from where ships come loaded with cereals and the soy of the other 45% necessary to feed the Galician cabin? Where, where did the one-year-old cereal hectares, which made the gain a sustainable activity resistant to the struggles that guarantee that quality and seriousness?, where did the thousands of cereal hectares to nourish the current intensive Galician surplus?, where did the health of the waters and lands that today are in question with exaggerated percentages of nitrates and phosphates?, where did their unbreakable faith - which reminded me of this - in the land production of the Limia and which demonstrated the commitment of the Union to continue working and seeking consensus in favour of this particular region and of the rural Galician in general? And that's it. Then they talked about money, about achievements: 36 million investments shared Together and state for this region. Text words: "a contribution"—the councillor pointed out—that we have managed to sustain the agricultural sector in the region." Of the 36 million euros, of the board only 4, and they suck. Go, go! Meanwhile, the promised October 4, 2019 at the Lime Bureau is smoke, never existed; promises that swallowed the devil into agrarian strategic plan, a farm training plan, a good practice manual, several pilot projects, a preliminary draft law on the management of interest... and the certainty of the threat of the zone declaration vulnerable by saturation of nitrates and phosphates in the Limia. Because it is important to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that the DAFO analyses emanating from the participatory process for the elaboration of the Strategic Plan of the Limia Agrarian Sector were powerful, they are powerful; I would say: they are loudly alarming. It's essential to read it, even if it's only in its supersumeded version; read it to be able to think about The Limit. He wanted to summarize it again so that they could understand it: 1. Greed, weaknesses, production model based on intensive farming, swine and poultry, with the consequent loss of holdings of beef and sheep and goats in extensive terms. 2. High-dimension exploits with a large dependence on external resources for animal nutrition. 3. Diffuse water contamination by nitrates and phosphates. 4. Lack of support for the gloved by-products. 5. A model of exploitation linked to a single cooperative on which cooperatives depend at all stages: production, processing and marketing. 6. Climate change will lead to a reduction in current resources, especially in water. 7. Negative image to public opinion. I'm still. Yes, of course, possible declaration of the region as a vulnerable area for soil pollution and nitrate water. It is constantly repeated in the report. Yes, of course. It is the State which must first make the determination of the condition of contaminated water. I throw balloons out, elude responsibilities, and I'll throw them away. "Twenty-seven new intensive farms every year of the Bipartite," continued the counselor the other day in an attempt to exculpate the twelve years of transcendental meditation. And then he went to the cow statistics, in an attempt to manipulate reality. Because 6,400 dairy farms, with an average of 63 mussel cows, hide other farms of 600 and 900. Because 19,500 meats, with an average of 22 yolks, hide the 400 onions. We're talking about statistics. We know how to use them, too. A sample: pig sector, year 2020, Miteco data. Distribution of the total number of holdings in the State: Galicia head with 34%, which, translated into numbers, are 30.007 pig intensive holdings; Catalonia, 7%, 6,075 farms, and Aragon, 5%, 4.650. We turn it around: meat production, Catalonia, 40%; Aragon, 19% and Galicia, 1.8%. And now, how do you want me to use the statistics? Because I can use them either in favor or against, depending on what you want to reason. The statistic mind, always mind; depends on who to use and how to use it. Because with statistics or without them the problem is there. On the other day, the Counsellor did not deny the existence of diffuse pollution only to rule out responsibilities based on the competences of his department. Skills will not; responsibilities, yes. The Greek Government is responsible for the enlargement and worsening of the problem by not putting corrective measures at the moment when the problem was not too big; those that suggest and demand DAFO reports. Even today, the German Government allows intensive expansions and does not value the overall environmental impact. Demential! of guard trial, delinquent! Because the problem is the concentration of intensive holdings of pigs and birds, without reasonable management of the by-products they generate. All this, in a supersensitive region that, due to its edaphology, suffers from periodic flooding, and dung and purins easily leached; and hens and jurors. These are resources that agriculture in this country could absorb, if there were heads, sentinels and planning. By the way, the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation has written over a decade ago a report to declare water masses affected by the aquifers of the region and the coronation of Conchas. Government Rajoy stopped the statement, and three years later, with the entrance of the PSOE Government still stored in a drawer. Meanwhile, the Union has continued to authorize new farms and grant enlargements. Who's against the Limitia, who's demanding solutions or who's blindfolding and denying the evidence? The rise in prices and the post-war inflation, and the incomprehensible barbarity of war days ago, are a very serious crisis in rural areas. Since the BNG we said and said "sentidy", "sustibility", "territorial base", "food sovereignty"... and we have jokes and jokes: Galicia of the past! Poetry! And now where do we get resources? How many thousands of hectares left? Law of the Land Bank: twelve years lost in the misery of the PP and in its concept of political-made caciquism. And now we're bluffing? Limia needs a special treatment that you won't give her because you're tied up by your own networks. The responsibility for the extreme situation in which the Limia producers find themselves lies with you. Anden! Move! Get out of transcendental meditation, rule for people and stop ruling for friends at once! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Seco García has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u69	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Party we understand that it is urgent that the Galician Union, after 13 consecutive years of government, emerge from its lethargy and understand the need to take measures to stop nitrate pollution that is suffering from our soil and our aquifers, with data that we could define, in areas like The Limitia, of great gravity. And while these measures are being taken to prevent the continued degradation of our country, we must also safeguard the future of our agricultural activity by making it possible to conjugate the gainful activity without our water resources being left in a deplorable state. The European Commission has long reported that Galicia has 41 eutrophic, or hypertrophic points, without being designated as vulnerable areas. These are data that we can observe in the report prepared by the Ministry of Ecological Transition on water pollution by nitrates between 2016 and 2019. This document says that Galicia and Catalonia are the most contaminated communities in the waters derived from waste, a unique and exclusively derived situation from the policies of the Feijóo People's Party, which for 13 years refused to recover useful land surface and led our winners to bet on an intensive gain model. The curious thing is that while in Catalonia they were updating and adapting their programs, the Galician Union remains undeclared no vulnerable zone, despite recording the largest net surpluses of nitrogen per hectare in the entire state derived from the gainful activity, and without placing any effective formula for the management of interest. They came to the point of arguing just over two years ago — in October 2019 — that no sample point of the subterranean waters of the Limia reflected average annual values above 50 milligrams of nitrates per litre of water, the maximum limit, when the Hydrographic Confederation itself had detected non-compliances at 24% of the sampling points. And the end of the defeat was to listen in the past to counsellor González Vázquez saying that Galicia has not declared vulnerable areas because of the current central government. So, Mr. People's Party, as in October 2019 Mr. Balsairos, ex-Director General of Ghenderie, explained how the Union had argued against the five areas detected by the Ministry at the Limia with nitrate pollution from its aquifers and said that there was a positive evolution in recent years, which would make its inclusion in this list of vulnerable areas unnecessary by having a downward trend. And he continued to say that, in the event that this nitrate concentration was determined, Junta would define those areas as vulnerable, with Fertilizer-Ban periods, with controls on purin ditches and with follow-up to the Greek Code of Good Agrarian Practices. We see how the decision is to blame the state government! What a strange thing to see as once again the Greek Government renounces its powers to blame evil Pedro Sánchez!, a central government who, after hearing the request made to it by the Greek socialists, announced an investment of 28 million euros to modernize the irrigation of the territory of the Limia. It's an investment, lords of the People's Party, so he didn't bet, during his seven years of government, Mariano Rajoy, and by what now the current Government bet. But it turns out that, according to counsellor González Vázquez, this performance is thanks to him and his government. As I said, it's an investment by the state in Galicia that divides into 16 million for the modernization of the irrigation and another 12 million for the cleaning of channels and parallel roads; a clean that, by the way, should make Galicia's Union, because it's its competence, but it's done by the central government. What's the matter with politics? According to counsellor González Vázquez, the fault of not being able to decree areas vulnerable by nitrates is that of the Central Government, when it is a competition of the Galician Union. And at the same time, the investment he makes in modernising the irrigation of the boundary the central government is thanks to the Unity of Galicia. And all this without any of you getting colored. In this process of modernization to Junta it is true that it will suffer the new wells — something that is also of its competence — with an investment of 4 million euros and with concessions that did not progress at the time of Mariano Rajoy. Then nothing happens to the Galician People's Party. But now that Rajoy is gone and there are few dates left for this to be a reality, it's a scandal that's not being dealt with. It is a complex process of this concession, which began in 2017 with the request of the irrigation communities — something that paralyzed the communities themselves to take forward the environmental study, which they obtained in 2019 — which resumed the procedure, which had two requirements in 2019, to know the number of owners and the size of the plots; that they had to re-deliver documentation in 2020; that it had to be published in the province newsletter; that it had claims by an environmental organization; that it was in public exhibition in the Xinzo Town Council; that it had to be informed by natural heritage of the Junta de Galicia — as it is preceptive—; and that it had to be subsequently reported by the state lawyer — as a result of these allegations. The news is that the concession will be a reality next month in the case of the first community of creeks, and that will be completed in the case of the other three communities in a couple of months. Now it's time for the Galician Union to make them come true as soon as possible. Let's see if he's in the same hurry. A few days ago, the Central Government passed a real decree to reduce nitrate pollution and strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable water masses, an update of the Royal Decree on nitrate pollution which is key to reducing the problems of this type of water pollution in the water masses and reaching the environmental targets set by the national legislation itself set by the landfill plans and also by the European Union. This royal decree sets out more ambitious criteria than current ones to better identify water affected by nitrates and to determine thresholds more required for the declaration of water affected and, consequently, for the reassignment of vulnerable areas. The application of the new standard will lead to an increase of up to 50% of the area of protected areas that have been identified as vulnerable to this type of contamination. And they will develop more demanding action programs, including specific limitations on fertilisation related to those regulated in hydrological planning. The regulation also significantly increases the density of control stations and increases the frequency of samples in water to analyze their nitrogen content and other associated pollutants. Similarly, it lays down additional measures and reinforced actions to reverse existing pollution. In addition, we are committed to making all that information public so that it can be used by the farmers themselves to adjust their fertility patterns. And, in this way, it requires the preparation of a quadrennial report which analyses the effectiveness of the measures which are being taken into account and which will be referred to the European Commission in turn. The rule also lays down the responsibilities of the different public administrations in order to achieve a coordinated implementation of all measures; and in particular, the obligations to be assumed by the water authorities and also by the autonomous communities, which, although you do not seem to know, have specific competences in agriculture, gain and the management and protection of the environment in your territory. The new hydrological plans to be adopted in the coming months also set the path for the reduction of nitrate concentrations in the water masses, which must lead us to this environmental recovery and which will enable us to comply with the objectives of the nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. This royal decree allows hydrological conca plans to establish within their regulations the maximum levels of nitrogen surpluses for each water mass affected by nitrates. Furthermore, concave bodies themselves and hydraulic administrations may set limits on new concessions and other activities subject to authorisation to avoid a concentration that may significantly impact water. The autonomous communities, as I said, in addition to developing and ensuring compliance with action programmes in areas declared vulnerable, will develop codes of good agricultural practices which farmers will necessarily apply in vulnerable areas in order to reduce the pollution produced by these nitrates of agricultural origin. Among other issues, these codes should collect the periods when fertilizers should not be applied on land, the conditions for their application on land near watercourses and the necessary requirements to ensure that interest and subsidies generally do not endanger human health or harm the environment. And it's less bad that the Ministry is doing something in the face of the absolute inaction on the part of the Galician Union for these 13 years. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, we agree, of course, with your concern and much of the motion you present today. And we only propose a replacement amendment at the fourth point because we really believe that asking for a moratorium on the installation of new intensive pig farms and the expansion of these to all Galicia seems excessive to us, since there are mechanisms that should be used to evaluate each of the applications depending on how and where they intend to put these new installations without the need for moratoriums; and without need, gentlemen of the People's Party, that justice again remove the colors from the German Government paralyzing the installation of some farm — which had the good view of Mr. Núñez Feijóo — because it was a danger to the environment and to health. But this succeeds in ruling, something that the People's Party has given up since 2009. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u71	Well, good morning, president. Good morning, gentlemen. Allow me also a reminder on the working woman's day — as it cannot be otherwise, and as a spokeswoman in the middle of the countryside — for the women of the Limia who are engaged in agricultural activity, for those of Lugo, Ourense and, ultimately, for Galicia, examples of conciliation, struggle and sacrifice. [[Applause]] Go, go, Mr. Rivas! You don't seem to like him working. Always tell me my mother: "That gentleman with beards very badly speaks to you, he's always angry! It must really bother him that things are going to happen." And indeed a little humility. You will understand that all this work is not derived from a commission question, it would be virtually impossible for an investment to be made and those meetings that took place yesterday morning in the territorial delegation, in which the rural councillor, the general Directorates, the members of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and the communities of irrigation to continue to move forward in that sustainable management work and taking into account the investments. Today also at 9:50, in the Coruña, the government delegate and the councillor met with the president of the State Commercial Society of Agricultural Infrastructure to move forward in what is, of course, a concern, which is the modernization of that irrigation system on the Limia. Mr Rivas, sustainability is to meet the needs of the present without compromising the needs of the future. That's the concept, which knows him as much as we do. And in this case all the measures and work being put in place — there is an important concern but, of course, acting with responsibility — we are looking for that balance between economic growth, the care of our environment and, of course, also social progress. The counselor, I think, explained in a clear, humble way all the work that was being done. He also explained the procedure for declaring the contamination. I think, in addition, there's a very clear decree that supports it, that I'll turn it on to read a little later. He once again explained -- not so serious, on a subject that we care about everyone -- the policy that BNG has used to us, that of "doing what I command you, not what I have done." In fact, the data — which seems to have bothered you too — the numbers, I don't know if the statistics — that the paper supports everything and gives up and down depending on what you want to say, but what is measured if it's true that it needs less effort to interpret. And there's a reality: when you ruled, you granted permission for more gainful farms and, in addition, for larger farms. And that's a mathematical reality, which now, for anyone who listens to it — as you well say — might seem like a song or a poetry, but it's a reality. One is a slave to what he does and what he says. And here today I want to remind you too. How do you work from the Council? I think with an interdepartmental commission that I think is working well with the central government -- some things, of course, I will also point out that they are better -- and from consensus, listening to all the agents involved and taking steps in concrete measures. There's no other way to solve what we're aware of is a problem. The councillor pointed out five measures covering the rest of a vastly larger package. He put it as a mechanism to give a solution to the Limia, of course, the application of the Land Recovery Act, which he doesn't like. He explained that he continues to advance in the pasture plan system. He explained that you are working on the Integrated System Bill for the management of winning ejections, which you don't value either. They call everything smoke. It has also, of course, highlighted those failures that are taking place in the central government. And he also explained that project about what he says he receives next generation funds to have a circular economy and power project, not only on the Limit, but throughout Galicia, giving a solution to the waste management farms. Of course, without forgetting what we understand that it also has sober application here, which is the strategy of dynamizing the dairy sector. Without a doubt, what matters most to Limia is to be able to conquer as soon as possible this important investment of 16 million euros by the Government of the State — which, of course, thanks itself — together with the budget of expenditure already planned in advance by the Council itself for the modernization of the irrigation system. That's a concern, and here too pointed out today the socialist spokesman at which stage was processing the permits. But it's a reality. No further progress could be made because it is pending, by the way, as in many more projects in areas that depend on the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, of preceptive authorizations. And that's not a critique either, it's a reality that the voicer himself recognized. Galicia has not yet declared vulnerable areas because of this type of pollution. And that is undoubtedly one aspect that needs to be emphasized, and there is something positive: we agreed on the diagnosis, we agreed on many proposals and even agreed on the amendment of the Socialist Party. With which, the amendment that we record in time and way collects a feeling that could really give a solution to that which with all moderation and spirit of consensus today I want to move here. We want a strategic plan of the agricultural sector to be promoted in the region of Limia — that is what is being done and, in addition, it is the text of our motion — together with a speedy handling of the authorizations requested from the Confederation, and asking the Government of the State — which we know has funds for the purpose. The whole green economy can undoubtedly get public support, it must achieve it, it is within the European strategy. And we ask them to assume as much as possible and also to support this circular economy project that presented both the Council and the President himself on repeated occasions. We agreed on this and I hope we can reach an agreement, but always working from the consensus — there is a strategic plan of the region's agricultural sector — and always taking into account that our priority is to take care of our environment but also of our agricultural sector, our primary sector, and that there is continued job creation in the primary sector. Of course, we have to bet on this sector to fight for the demographic challenge in a province where it is no doubt an objective as to what we all agree is a priority. And we have to listen to people, not work on BNG's impulses or because BNG registers an initiative. I think our amendment perfectly collects your feelings and I beg you to analyze it constructively. I'll only do two punctuations to the intervention of the Socialist Party spokesman. Look, the new Royal Decree 47/2022 — because we have told you many times that the half-truths are much more dangerous in politics than lies — it collects perfectly as if the statement had to be handled. And, without any doubt, I invite you to read article 3 and article 6 of this royal decree, which states that, in case you detect them, periodic water tests must be carried out by the conca organism — which in this case is the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. In the case of detecting values above the permissible maximum limits, the administration on which the previous organ depends must determine which water masses are. That's a reality and I think it's important not to confuse the population. As far as the proceedings are concerned, I suppose the Confederation does not deliberately hinder them, I suppose not. But it's also true that they've all been registered for many months. It is true, as you pointed out, that they had claims from the Natural History Society, and practically in all the files — including celebrating those confrontational records on the ground at each of the three points, both in Lamas, as in the Horn of the Mount, as well as in the High Limit and in San Salvador de Sabucedo — in the field checks this entity has not appeared and are pending to resolve. I'm sure he'll do it as soon as possible, but it's not bad that this Parliament unanimously transfers the importance of it to the Confederation, because it's a lot of budget that's pending that investment. There's a lot of help, and right now, in addition, the deadlines are open. In the composting projects, agricultural holdings can be presented both for improvement plans, which know that there is an budget of more than 20 million euros, as well as for aid to promote the use of joint installations and equipment, in association arrangements, as well as for the new manure management aids of the Spanish Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan — along with the global project I mentioned earlier —. They are instruments that already exist, which the Council itself is already in the process of bringing about improvements in its holdings. And there is the training plan — and I refer to what has also been said on repeated occasions in the committees — led by the Galaga Food Quality Agency. In short, there is a package of measures within the Strategic Plan of the boundary 2022-2026, which has six axes of action, 30 measurements and 128 actions. I think there's a marked roadmap, I think the concern we know, and we have an obligation to solve it. And I believe that, in addition, what the farmers and farmers of the Limia expect is that on this initiative we have reached agreements, because, in addition, this morning — and I have just read it — the joint communication that both the Delegation and the Council have issued. And the State Government and the Galician Union are working together to provide solutions. Now -- that's true -- I already know that every day they bring the type argumentary and take it from "lords of the People's Party." But I've been looking in the hemerothecs for what happened at other times, when there were peaks of contamination. I have here a press release entitled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u73	..."No solution for the Conchas embalming according to the Mino-Sil Confederation." And the alternative that Mr. Linares gave — we know him well, he's no longer active — for his facts, not for other reasons — was "waiting for the rain and getting the temperatures down." I don't think that's a solution, no doubt, but, well, if anyone comes here to hear them, they might seem to really do things differently.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u75	I beg you to look at it constructively and to be able to take an initiative unanimously. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Candia, we call it smokes everything that takes the wind. And for the moment, all the consensus in the Lime Bureau took the wind. [[Applause]] You come to say that the problem of Limia is irrigation, wells and channels. No, the Limia problem is nitrate and phosphate contamination due to a gainful intensity that has not been properly controlled. And it wasn't properly controlled by whom? For the German Government. PP has been giving permission for this to continue for 12 years. Look, I'm going to focus on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the moratorium is obviously not for the whole country, we are talking about the Limit. So, if you like, we specify in the territory of the Limia. But I don't think it's necessary. With regard to the amendment proposed by the People's Party, the first point is to "impress the strategic plan of the agricultural sector of the region of Limia already set in motion." We really can't wake up what we don't know. Because where did it start? When? When was it presented in society? Was it long? No, therefore, we can't. I mean, that point is not questionable. And with respect to the second, isn't it worth the writing we have? I mean, what we have is clear to anyone who wants to understand. It's the same. But you want to replace it because you're the ones who go ahead. Regarding point 3, it doesn't seem very necessary to claim more money after yesterday's counselor's triumphalism, which said they've already got mountains and lots, so... Point 4. Is it admitted if we also ask the Board for the execution of the 600,000 euros of rosas and cleaning committed for the past year 2021 and that they have not been executed in a small part? Point 5. We doubt the effectiveness of the plants included in the Next Generation, because they will allow and promote intensive gain to the detriment of the common sense, which is the sustainable and extensive gain. And if you want, we can discuss this point, but why are you against it or at least you don't collect composting projects in the management of interest and chickens, composting projects, what does the common sense say about the agricultural resources that provide us with these intensive farms? Why? Why do you ignore it? And, look, let's be serious. Of our points 4 and 5, common sense; of the 4, moratorium, and of the 5, common sense; the 6, essential stimulus of transformation — you are not interested in that — and the 7, the Law of Recovery of Land. In the days when they met, it had to be the basic law to lay down and execute. We doubt their capacity as to the reasonable execution of that law. You know why? Because you've made every effort to take the Land Bank as a Bolshevik law and those things that you said... yes, Mr. Castro has the words recorded in the fire, recorded in this Parliament's hemerotheque. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I think it was Mr. Castro. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're filmed in the fire that was blowing... well, there's someone doing them today as well. Finally, we are open to dialogue as to consensualizing this amendment and this agreement. Now, to a reasonable dialogue, reasonable! We're not going... let's see, you've spoken of a wonderful sustainability there. Sustainability is to leave for the future; that is, to work, to take advantage of the resources in the present and to leave the same or increased for the future. Limia is not an example of sustainability right now, not much less. Rather, it's an example of the opposite. And the responsibility is yours, for twelve years of contemplative life. Change and we will be willing to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. I don't know if they've planned to talk or not. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, I don't know. If they decide to talk to you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u79	We've come to vote on the motions. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Marina Ortega, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the problematic use of the Internet and social networks by minors and adolescents. You have a transaction document. You can read it, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u80	Thank you, President. The transaction reads as follows: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to develop a programme of measures budgeted with own funds in order to give an effective response to the problematic use of the Internet and social networks by minors and adolescents, and to respond necessarily to the following criteria: 1. An integral and cross-cutting character which includes actions in the field of autonomous competences coordinated in the educational, health and social fields. 2. Community and consensual character, which will incorporate the approaches they can carry out in different institutions expert in the field and social agents in this regard. 3. It will allow you to update the portfolio of services in the area of addiction prevention within the framework of the development of a new law on the prevention of addictions in minors in Galicia, and incorporate specific interventions on the proper use of digital devices and technologies. 4. It will give top priority to prevention as the best tool to get teenagers and minors to make responsible use of new technologies by taking advantage of their potential and avoiding the risks associated with their use."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u81	Thank you. Let us vote on this text. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of xunta de Galicia regarding the problematic use of the internet and social networks by minors and adolescents. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u82	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the presence of attention in the bank. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u83	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoese Luís Rivas. Neither the Socialist Parliamentary Group nor the People's Parliamentary Group accept amendments. G.P. Motion vote. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xose Luís Rivas Cruz, on the environmental policy of the Government of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u84	We suspended the meeting until 4:00 p.m., four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u85	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the third point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to modernise and humanize the family meeting points
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u86	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u87	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. López Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u88	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. According to Decree 94/2014, the family meeting points constitute a resource that enables the preservation and facilitation of family relationships between children and their parents when there is a family crisis situation, when there is a complicated divorce, when there is a complicated separation or even when there is already a situation where the child is in a family reception regime. In such cases, then, it will always be ensured by the safety and protection of the child, it will always be easier to have relations with their relatives and will always try to promote the presence and compliance of the visit regime — although sometimes it is not complied with by various causes or derives from situations of conflict, which must be avoided. So it's a very necessary resource, it's a neutral resource. The objectives of this resource will essentially be, first, to try to preserve the right that the child has to have a relationship with his progenitors, even if there is a separation — and with his relatives too — with a healthy bond that will not generate scars in his emotional sphere, in his emotional sphere, in his emotional sphere, in his even psychic sphere. And then it's also about preserving her relationship with her progenitor who doesn't have custody and her extended family. We must also try to keep an eye on the safety of the child and make his interest the most important thing we have to take care of. And for that, we have to prevent situations of a visit regime that could be conflictive. You always have to try to let the minor express his feelings, his worries, what he thinks, what he feels and his needs in front of the two parents without feeling bullied and free. They are often also points where you can obtain truthful information about the parents' attitudes and abilities of the parents. It is important to note that, in those points, women who are victims of gender violence under the law should always be informed and derived, in cases where it is deemed appropriate, from specialized care, protection and comprehensive assistance services. In short, the two primary objectives will be to guide families to improve their paternal-material-filial relationships and to try to provide parents with parental tools so that they can ultimately exercise their co-parentship autonomously and independently without having to count on that resource. In other words, it is finally possible to normalize the family situation without need of the resource, that the resource becomes unnecessary. And it must be borne in mind that for this there will be three performances in these centers: one is at the time of the child's delivery and collection, which is at that time when the corresponding professional will be the one who supervises and works as an intermediary; another is in the curated visits, when there is a visit from a parent to a minor, where there will always have to be a professional who is present at all times monitoring the two hours of the visit; and there are the supervised visits, the ones to be supervised, but in which there is no need for the professional to be present all the time during the visit. And there must also be complementary interventions. These interventions may, for example, be the design and development of psycho-educational programs to try to normalize these family relationships, always in an individual and personalized way. We must guide, support and pay attention to children — as I say — in order to improve these maternal-pattern-filial relationships, and they are conceived from a more positive perspective. Sometimes it will intervene in a mediator or negotiator way, when the visit regime may be conflicting, to wake up a new visit regime or when you cannot exercise co-parentship because there is a serious conflict behind it. And always any performance or intervention has to have a record and documentation needs everything the point technicians do. I'm going to read now some data that I find interesting to consider and that is 2021. In 2021 there were 25,000 interventions in the Greek PEF — 70% were exchanges, 13% were secured visits and 17% were supervised visits. And something important, given today's date, is that 30.8% represent open cases of gender violence. In fact, this resource is where cases of violence are often detected, not only of gender-based violence but also of child abuse. That's why it's very important to have proper facilities, cozy, accessible facilities that promote a comfortable, warm, as humane as possible, and adapt all existing centres, conditional, adapt them to current social needs — which are changing. And on the other hand, we also have to try to generate a comfort and security environment not only for users but also for the workers at the points of the centers. I think there are four considerations that need to be taken into account in order for a centre of these features to work well — and I no longer believe it, I believe those who know of this resource. The first is that the professionals at the center have to follow the paradigm of the good deal; that is, the model that continues to work is that of the paradigm of the good deal. The conflicts continued in children and girls at the end bring lasting scars to their hearts that last all their life. Children are not alien to the dynamics of marital breakups, and sometimes those ruptures involve very serious changes in their maternal-paternal-filial relationships. And in that sense, we have to be very careful to be able to intervene with these children and try to make them as much pain as possible. And in that sense it is very relevant to this model of work of the paradigm of good treatment, because it is a constructive model, it is a model that fosters change, it is a model that is about normalizing family relationships. In front of those who think that the family meeting points are points of mere exchange of minors or mere regulation of contacts, or that they simply serve to maintain the status quo, is this model of work. The second consideration is the proximity of the service. That is, the network of family meeting points in Galicia is composed of seven centers — all of them of title to the Union of Galicia — in the cities of Ferrol, The Coruña, Compostela, Lugo, Ourense, Pontevedra and Vigo. And it's just been inaugurated in the region of Barbanza. But the performances don't end there, because there's a plan to build up to fourteen centers, fourteen family meeting points, by the end of 2023. That is, on this date it is said to have doubled the number of family meeting points with respect to those in 2001. Yes, an important goal. [[Applause]] And now we're acting -- let's say -- in a double direction. First you have to do a technical analysis of where to locate these centers, and for that you have to take into account a number of variables — first, the needs and demands of families, because there is no sense that there is a center per municipality, but that the displacements are as short as possible. And also, in this way, and being shorter, which costs less money, considering how expensive fuels are. On the other hand, we also consider a third consideration, which is that centers have to be modernized, humanized, they have to have adequate and appropriate facilities. And in this sense, there will be an budget of EUR 400,000 to modernise all the centres that are already operational. This budget will be extended and renewed in the following years, with which it is good news that needs to be taken into account, since there are many centres that now need this renovation and these new facilities. And what do they have to be the right facilities? For they will have to have suitable rooms for the realization of visits, exchanges and meetings; furniture and rooms suitable for games and books according to the various ages; appropriate office furniture, computer equipment with lines of communication that allow online work; accessible infrastructure from a universal perspective; suitable heating and air conditioning systems; specific kitchen spaces with necessary services in order to be able to prepare, if necessary, snacks, bottles and anything else; bathrooms adapted for people with disabilities and for child use; changer for babies. And they must have accessible operating rules for all users, including for children — they have to be those standards written in children's language and easy to read for people with hearing, visual and any other type of disability. And the last consideration will be the organization, composition and coordination of the technical team at each of the family meeting points. That is, all your professionals — who will have a social or legal profile — will have to have a specific training in family mediation, family exchange, gender training. They also have to have the capacity to work as a team, to coordinate with other services and among them — so that there is an interdisciplinary nature at work and so that this work can be optimized. And, on the other hand, sometimes there is a need for constant management and supervision by a figure outside the team. This technical direction will facilitate an approach from experience to prevent cases from becoming jammed, to change strategy if necessary, or to solve specific difficulties. It will therefore encourage attention and identification of critical points and will enable the planning and implementation of preventive and corrective measures. So, for now, this is what I can tell you. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u89	Thank you, Mrs. López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we can't be sad, sad thinking about what's going on in the Ukrainian people. So I want to begin my intervention with an explicit condemnation of this military attack by Russia that violates all the principles of international law. I want to show my solidarity with the Ukrainian people and put in place the defense of a Europe in which only free and safe democracies exist. [[Applause]] And speaking of democracy today, as we are on March 8, I also want to mention the special defence of real equality as a prerequisite for achieving this more just and democratic society. And this year, we, from the Socialist Party, have focused this claim on defending co-responsibility, a task that, as a society, we still have pending. And it's also essential that women get out of this crisis with the same opportunities as men. We need to move towards a real co-responsibility that will allow and then force public administrations to implement conciliation measures. And we are going to talk about conciliation here, because this initiative we are discussing today is very related to this, since the shortcomings of this service in Galicia prevent the reconciliation of hundreds of user families. I would also like to congratulate you here, Mrs López, on your commitment to whitening this decade of inactivity of the People's Party's Government in this area. It's not easy. And so I tell you that you have a lot of merit in your speech, because since 2009, since the Government of Touriño, which regulated this by decree, which regulated the activity of these meeting points -- and this decree was what you approved and gave legal certainty to these meeting points, which have been operating since 2001 in the seven major cities of Greece -- the PP has made a great deal of management, the great management of expanding this network at a more meeting point, which has just opened in Ribeira. And you bring this initiative here to Parliament today in order to draw upon this brilliant management: a meeting point in twelve years of the People's Party's government. It's wonderful. You were talking about fourteen meeting points in the year 2023. The truth is, I doubt it very much. At this point, no one believes it. Let us not forget, moreover, that it is an obligation of the autonomous Government to maintain this fundamental resource — as you said — for the protection of children and for the help of all those parents in the exercise of their parental function in those alleged vulnerability or conflict. But this government did not have the slightest interest or commitment in managing this network of centres, nor did it have this purpose of protection, but for all these years has been confined to a mere management of existing ones. We still don't have accurate data on the potential users of these centers, but we can, in general, talk about the number of divorce sentences in Galicia. From the year 2020 — which is the latest data we have — we have five thousand divorce judgments. Of course, they're not all contentious, but a little percent -- about thirty percent peaks -- and that they don't all have a high level of conflict either. But about half a percent, they'd give us about six hundred a year. In addition, it must be added that in 2020 there were 2,571 children and children protected. And all these people may not be users of these meeting points, but they're not users of all these seven hundred people who appear in the memory of the Social Policy Council — which would already be enough for the floor of these seven centres. But I'm not because there's so many families on the waiting list, a waiting list that reached its peak in 2014. In 2014, there was such a large waiting list that many judgments could not be executed because of this reason. And this has produced a lot of complaints and family complaints. By this decree of the year 2014, Junta decided to amend the regulation and set a star measure to end this waiting list. What was the star measure? Increase the number of centres throughout the territory? No, no, no, no. The star measure was — except in cases of gender violence, of course, because the law prevented it — to limit to two years the period of intervention of these families in these meeting points, as if this family conflict was resolved in two years, which in many cases is due to addictions or psychiatric problems, or as if in two years this child or this child no longer needed protection. This measure is true that it has reduced the waiting list but not the duty of protection that Joina has as a public body. A budget that has increased by 74,000 euros since 2014 do you think it shows the interest of the Government of the United Nations in working for these meeting points to really protect children? You do an idyllic exposition of the functioning of these meeting points. I'd like you to spend a week there and see what really happens and how these meeting points work, because I'm sure this idyllic vision would change a lot. Now they're talking about humanizing and modernizing, and we've been doing a decade of demands not only for user families, but also for recommendations from the people's valets, the current valet, the judiciary or the Women's Defense Association. The U.S. government really has no desire to humanize these spaces because on this initiative they bring here today they do not implement any measures. How do you intend to modernize? Giving them a little color, some paint, putting on pretty ornaments? This is an obligation by legal imperative, to protect all these children who are immersed in a conflict situation. We must also urge this Government to look at Portugal, or to look at other countries where these meeting centres are not special places. And I say "special places" where these children are not stigmatized by having to develop their visits there, but rather open spaces, spaces with intimacy enough to favor this family relationship and, above all, safe spaces, safe spaces not only for children, but also for women victims of gender violence. And many of these encounter points in Galicia don't meet these requirements. I can tell you in particular about the Pontevedra meeting points or the Ourense meeting point. Moreover, this humanization has to be completed with a mediation work with families to re-establish this situation of conflict, which workers cannot do at the moment because there is not enough staff to develop all these jobs. Returning to the beginning, to what I was saying is an empty content initiative, you speak of new creation centers by 2024 — fourteen. And in twenty-two years, as I say, they only created one. The seven that still exist are in the seven great cities of Galicia, which implies clear discrimination for minors and minors... for minors living in other towns... well, another said Putin was a communist. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Then they didn't laugh so much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I said "less." [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, how we're here... how we're here today at 8M... I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're here at 8M and I'm going to talk to you about co-responsibility and conciliation. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like you to explain to me in the last intervention how a Verin mother can do that she has to move to Ourense one afternoon between week and two weekends a month to take the minor to visit her father. How does a father of Cambados have to go visit his son in Pontevedra? Or like in the deliveries and collection in Place of a Burela family or a Monforte family? How do mothers stop working to do all those miles? Or, worse, how do they cost economically, since on many occasions they deal with families with little economic resources — practically in all cases where minors are protected —? The reality is that it's impossible, it's impossible to comply with these judicial resolutions. And judges and judges know that and they're taking alternatives. They're determining plans of visits that are not harmful to minors, but they're not able to count on this resource because they know that Board doesn't provide that service as required. Then they're resorting to other alternatives. That's why I'm telling you from here that the Socialist Group is asking you to make a commitment, that you don't think that technicians are studying a plan for future locations — as they have said since 2018. In 2018, in a commission, you said that the expansion of this network was imminent. What do you understand then as soon as possible? They are empathic, they take this resource seriously, which can help many children to have a happier childhood or, at least, less hard childhood. In the meantime, we're not going to participate in this theater, we're going to abstain from a motion, as it said, empty of commitment and which only aims at a face-washing and a public seal to eleven years of inaction by this Government. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. March 8 is a day that goes far beyond changing corporate colors to lilac. It's a day of struggle, one more, by our rights, rights as working women that we continue to endure a deep pay gap; rights as women that we suffer from that crack even after we leave the labour market -- because it lives on perceived pensions -- rights as women that we suffer from patriarchy in justice, in health, in education; rights as women that we want to be free in a world free of macho violence. [[Applause]] Last year there was a milestone in the struggle against male violence in this House: after the initiative of the BNG it was unanimously approved the reform of the Greek Law for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of male violence, which included vicarious violence as a more form of violence against women, one of the cruelest and most atrocious forms of violence against women, which is practised through children to cause them greater harm. Galicia is a country conscious of the feminist struggle and therefore of the fight and eradication of macho violence. It must be remembered that in this country since 2007 police or judicial complaint is not a sine qua non condition to be recognized as a victim of gender violence, a fact that was also advanced at that time in relation to the situation in which legislation was found in the rest of the state. But we're a conscious country and we're getting legal progress isn't enough. In the fight against macho violence, it is necessary to take a continuous step forward, to play a proactive role — especially in the case of institutions. There must be a change in the position and attitude of administrations in the fight against male violence, prevention, detection and intervention against this gender-based violence. Public administrations, and in the case of the Galician Union, should assume this proactive and non-reactive position, not waiting for women to report, but activate all mechanisms to detect cases of violence before women make such a complaint and ensure that the entire public network of protection and support is activated. In order for this alert and detection system to work, we need to strengthen public services that are key to the role they play in our society. We speak on numerous occasions of the role played by social services, education or health care — especially primary care —. And let me stop in this last area because of its importance. I've said it again in this House. When we talk about a collapsed, saturated primary care, with consultations that are closed because the professionals are not resting, we also talk about this, about failures on a network that should be reinforced to detect the violence of the macho. We're talking about women who go from consultation to consultation, from professional to professional, without consolidating any kind of professional-patient relationship, without proper care continuity and, therefore, from women to whom if they lose the opportunity to ask the key question of how things are going around the house. For this alert and surveillance work it is necessary that we have primary care with resources, with sufficient staff, with staff who are trained, who can give each woman the time to conduct the relevant interviews, to forge a trust relationship and to detect the symptoms and indicators that this woman may be in a situation of violence. And I would mention, at the beginning of my speech, about the legislative reform that has been achieved on violence, precisely because of the subject which we are dealing with in the debate on this initiative. Family meeting points are one more link in this network of detection of violence and they are particularly prominent in the detection of vicar violence. As you know, the familiar meeting points are that network of essential service points where compliance with the visiting regimes — in those cases where competent authorities are available in this way — is carried out in separation, divorce, guardianship or any other process. They are essential services because the vast majority of cases that come to them are conflict cases, even cases of women who have to comply with the visit regime by handing their children and their daughters over to their batterer. And I want to take advantage of this space to remember that a bully is never a good father, ever! [[Applause]] In this respect the Galician Parliament itself has already been pronounced when it has been asked to withdraw the authority of the batterers who have been firmly convicted. And if I stop in this respect, it's because we know that in some cases the regime of visits imposed in cases where there are convictions for gender-based violence. A few months ago, he had published the newspaper in Pontevedra — around the debate on vicar violence — that at the point of family meeting in Pontevedra there were nine women who comply with the regime of judicially imposed visits by handing their daughters and children to a batterer. This data from Pontevedra point allows you to albiscate only at the tip of the iceberg, because we know very well that not all cases of violence are reported or all those who are denounced make use of this service. That's why last July we moved this issue to Commission 5th and we do it today through the amendment. Because we think it is important to deepen the situation in which the family meeting points are found today. On the one hand, because it is urgent to develop a protocol for risk assessment at family meeting points in the face of situations of violence, whether known or not, which allows for the opening of channels of interinstitutional collaboration and coordination that guarantee the protection of both children and their mothers. As I said earlier, it's about moving from a passive position to a proactive position in protecting these women and their children. This is a demand made from the family meeting points themselves. Without going further, during the past legislative term, the representative of the heads of the family meeting points, Monica Permuy, appeared in the Equality Commission and moved this issue. In cases arising from the trial — as are all those of gender-based violence — it happens that the sending of incidence reports by the PEF does not have an obligation to read elsewhere. I mean, if there's no open procedure in the court at that time with regard to that case, sending an incidence report stays there, you have no guarantee that it will be read at that time. There is also another situation in cases of gender-based violence: that the family meeting point may not be aware that a gender-based violence procedure is open in some cases if this occurs after the case is entered at the family meeting point itself. These points may not know him; that is, if the cases are not unified and there is no will of the judge to send this information, they may not know. And if they don't know, they won't be able to set up specific conditions to apply in these cases, where there may be more risk factors. On the other hand, it is necessary to harmonize and unify the intervention criteria at the family meeting points. Today there are seven points in operation — La Coruña, Lugo, Ourense, Pontevedra, Santiago, Ferrol and Vigo — and what is already late with regard to the promises made by Ribeira. It's seven centers and each one has its way of operating and managing. Some of them are outsourced to private companies, others run by associations, each with its own rules and procedures beyond what is collected in Decree 96/2014 which regulates them. Together constantly reiterates that it is working on that protocol but the truth is that it is not yet enough. And in conclusion, because not only is it about modernizing and humanizing the family meeting points that are in operation today — as Mrs López pointed out — but it is also about expanding the network through a specific plan that addresses the reality in our country, it is clear that the seven original points that have been created in the seven cities of Greece are not enough to meet the existing demand. It seems positive to us to announce that new points are created, but it's also important to agree on a plan to analyze the volume of work that has the points that are already in operation, as well as the population and geographic dispersion of our country. There will be no denying at any time the need for it to be believed, for example, the point that was created in Ribeira, but it is necessary to have clear criteria why that locality is chosen. It's clear that the current network is not enough to cover the entire territory, it forces many people to travel hundreds of miles to make use of the service. For example, a woman from Burela has to travel to the Place and it's 100 kilometers, hour and a half of the displacement; one from the ship of Valdeorras has to approach Ourense — 114 — another hour and a half by car. It is urgent to create family meeting points in the Navy, on Earth of Lemos, Valdeorras, Verín, The Morrazo, Salnes and the Coast of Death. And that is why it goes against the Law itself on prevention and comprehensive treatment of violence, which in its article 4 collects territorial equity and emphasizes that consideration will be given to the need to compensate for territorial imbalances by ensuring access to all women, and especially those living in rural areas. But it is also the Galician Social Services Act, which in article 4 also collects this equity in the development of the network of centres and services that must compensate for territorial imbalances and ensure access to the system of Welsh and Welsh residents in social areas with high rates of aging and dispersion through the equitable and balanced provision of services throughout the territory. And I'm done as I started. In the fight against macho violence, there can be no room for self-comprehensiveness or passivity. Public institutions — in this case, the Galician Union — must have a proactive attitude in this struggle. We already know that the President of the Union has today affairs that keep him far more anxious than to rule this country. I know it's a spin now, but with permanent telephone contact. But we Greek women can't keep waiting for her to agree to focus once on governing Galicia, we Greek women want all rights and we already love them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. López Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u94	Mrs. Castro, the truth is you have the courage to talk about the inactivity of the People's Party when you neither modernized any center nor built any one either. It's true, you tend to be in a moral shortcut of superiority, but when you have the ability to manage resources for the most vulnerable groups, they don't. [[Applause]] Who does it? The People's Party. And I'm already talking from the perspective that I'm a very new policy, but I come from the association movement and I know who we're supported with. [[Applause]] Do you know who? People's Party, not you. So, well, let's talk about inactivity, I don't know, I think it's coming a little big. [[Applause]] Besides, something else. I agree that there is a critical spirit, yes, totally in agreement — and in opposition, more — but the critical spirit without knowledge of what is being spoken is speech for its part. Because to say... well, well, in this case it will take ten years, but, look, about the two years that mark Junta, I don't know if you — I think Mrs. Carreira quoted it — Monica Permuy, and Monica Permuy, along with other colleagues, developed a guide of good practices for the use of family meeting points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in that guide it is meridianly clear that you can't even reach the two years of use of that resource, because it's too much time for a child. You are finding the two years of the resource you want to free the waiting lists from. Well, no, Your Honor, that's not why. Imagine a minor in a situation of family conflict, to which another two years have been spent in such a resource. When they're two years old... No, maybe I know what I'm talking about, you do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, well, what I'm telling you is that, when they reach the age of two -- if they don't reach the goal that was set at the beginning of normalizing family relationships -- the normal thing is to consider whether it's really the right resource, or if you really have to make more careful decisions for the protection of that minor and for the safety of that minor. [[Murmurs.]] That's the decision and what comes from the best practices manual prepared by Monica Permuy and other experts in minors. [[Murmurs.]] So it's no longer what I say or what I say to Joine. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're things that experts say. With regard to the 400,000 euros he was talking about, they are not for construction and renewal. The four hundred thousand euros are only for the modernization of the centres that are already operational, and these are budgets that are going to be renewed. I mean, it's not for the whole building of the centers and the renovation included. Then, with regard to the expansion of networks — as you were speaking — the expansion of the family meeting points by the provinces of Lugo and Ourense will begin — because they are the ones most deprived of this resource, given that they only have meeting points in the capitals of the province, and that the displacements and their cost, especially of children and children, be the least possible ones. And also to get rid of waiting lists to some center, that's also what new family meeting points are going to be built for, not for the reason you claimed. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the commitment of the Galician Union through the Council of Social Policy is the reinforcement and expansion of this service. He's not back. The Galician Union has never left or withdrawn resources from the most vulnerable. There were communities that closed resources like this — for example, Valencia, which recently closed a family meeting point. In Galicia this has never happened, even in situations of major economic crisis. So this is also to be taken into account. On the other hand, when you talk about protocols that allow for risk assessment at the family meeting points in the face of situations of gender violence, there can be no doubt about the safety of the family meeting points. They can be improved, but they're safe, security is maintained. And I think that we have to be careful about this, at least on a date like today's, the 8M, where we have to pass on security to women. Are they better? Could there be, perhaps, reinforcement possibilities? Of course, but they're safe resources. All the PEFs of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, have protocols to protect women victims of gender-based violence and their sons and daughters. And they do not doubt that this parliamentary group and the Government of the Council of Galicia are fully aware of the situations in which women who suffer from gender-based violence, directly or through their children and their children, so for their protection, the PEFs are equipped with means, resources, protocols and coordination of all the institutions necessary to shortcut and prevent it. I mean, we're not going to fall into self-comprehensiveness. Everything can be improved and reassessable, but they're safe. And in addition, one of the objectives I said at the beginning of these familiar meeting points is to report, detect and derive cases of gender-based violence — which Mrs. Carreira once commented on — and derive them precisely from specialized units for the protection and comprehensive assistance of women who are victims of gender-based violence. In addition, the derivations of gender-based violence will be addressed differently in order to prevent the aggressor and the victim from entering the slightest contact. Then there are communication channels, and any initial evaluation report, follow-up evaluation, final evaluation, all those reports, they go first through the Children's and Children's General Directorate and then they go to trial. Any report has to establish that circuit. So there must be for the functioning of the family meeting points the coordination of all these resources. If not, really, it wouldn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u96	Yes, I'm done now, President. And the more there are the family guidance offices of the territorial heads who have competence in families and minors, who, together with the technical team at the meeting point, can organize joint monitoring sessions for the follow-up of many cases. Finally — and I am finished — I want to emphasize the importance of this resource and I want to stress the total commitment of the Union to its enlargement, modernization and humanization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u97	About the amendments? [[Mrs. López Sánchez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Don't you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u98	Yes, we have two amendments and we proposed transaction texts as add to our amendments. And the transaction text was accepted by the Nationalist Block Galego — which I really appreciate, because I believe it is important to have consensus on this issue. We don't have the Socialist Party's answer yet. We hope to have it along the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u99	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the work of home and care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u100	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u101	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u102	Thank you, President. "Without care there is no life," this is one of the slogans with which basic Greek feminism has been mobilising for years and ensuring that every 8th of March is a day of struggle, claiming, away from empty slogans, from washing of institutional consciousness and from unfulfilled promises. For all of them, comrades, our recognition on this day of struggle. [[Applause]] Without care there is no life and without care there is no economy. And that's what we want to talk about today. I would like to see the people who follow this debate and those we are here — journalists, Members, Members, Members of the House — think of a little bit of the distribution of the times of our lives and the lives we have close by, our own personal experiences, that of friends-friends, coworkers; that we think about our cores of friendship and family. Here, of course, we are generations, circumstances of all kinds, people who live in pairs, with children, without children, with dependents, people who live alone and people we have, who have different circumstances, even from the point of view of geography or class. But, in any case, I would like to think for a moment about us and the people around us, how many of those we know, for example, could not work without reconciling the care of their children with other people, or how many of the people we are here or of those we know can devote themselves to what they devote themselves precisely because there are other people -- mostly women -- who take care of themselves, from making the purchase list to other issues; or how many of those who are here today cut off or cut off at any other time of their life experience or leisure to taking care tasks and who are other people who develop those jobs. Of course, no one likes to examine how we reproduce inequality. I'm including myself, I'm the first, I don't like to do it about myself and my life either. And it's uncomfortable to do so, but I'm sure that, if we honestly answer these questions thinking about our lives and what we have around us, it doesn't take us too much depth and we think too much to realize immediately the unequal distribution of the times that most of us still have in our society between men and women, especially with regard to care and domestic work. And it's also easy to think, seeing around us, that with the average wages in this country, it's not easy that in a home you can allow a third person to pay for these tasks. And in a large number of situations, in most homes, in most households, in most families, it is resolved that, with a need for care, someone — almost always a woman — takes up renouncements of his own vital space, his own leisure or his work — in the worst case — to take care of them. The data are there: 88% of the people who in 2020 took a surplus for the care of children or daughters were women; in Galicia, 1,074 women versus 142 men. Every trimester of EPA is asked why not to look for work, and the reasons why women stop looking for work or don't actively seek work is precisely to take care tasks. And it's true that in recent years, thanks to that strength of feminism, that force and those massive March 8th, the feminist agenda has taken on more protagonists in the communicative agenda, in the political agenda. And that's necessary and positive, but it also has a shadow, which is that there is a mirrorism, sometimes also very interested, that there is an equality that has already been achieved in this country. And today, that this March 8th we see again many declarations of intent, that we see also many lilac ties, all this is good, but we want to remember, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, that we have come here to legislate and promote public policies. And for that there is something that is fundamental, that is knowing the reality that you want to transform, and that is why you say that just as you say that what you don't name doesn't exist, that which you don't measure does not exist, that which you don't compute does not exist. So today, what we are asking for on this initiative is basically that the People's Party no longer vetoes that in this country it is studying and quantifying the value of domestic production, i.e. the value of all this unpaid, invisible work that mostly bears women in this country. And in this country you haven't measured what that economic value has been for over ten years, more than ten years! Now, if we've already said that the world would be unsustainable without that unpaid contribution, we must also see what's changed in the last decade. Of course, we have made it clear that, if we want to dignify the work of care, if we want to make real the knowledge on the part of society that without care there is indeed no life, we have to put it, unfortunately, in this economic model in which we live, price. We have to put a monetary value on it to dignify it, also to dignify those who do this work in a paid way, in a regulated way, but in many cases also precarious. We cannot, of course, give this debate without mentioning all those domestic workers, all those women who remain affected because the Central Government has not yet proceeded, has not yet consumed the ratification of ILO Convention 189. [[Applause]] Today we can't help but complain that this is accelerating and that we stop seeing such judgments as this that I have here: "The European Court fails against Spain for not paying unemployment to 395,000 domestic workers." [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] The 21st century, and we're talking about rights that are not recognized, is that they are not respected, and that, at best — I insist — if they're winning in the courts. Of course, we understand that it's unacceptable, and that's why we also incorporate it into the demands of this proposal. In any case, the basis of this discrimination, since the non-recognition of work, of social non-recognition, is, of course, the historical undervaluement of domestic work and care. And that's why we insist that it's key to studying it and seeing how much it would amount to in economic terms. This was done in this country many years ago. From the second household production satellite account that made the Galego Institute of Statistics we know the data in 2013 but it's about 2010. And we know that at that time that invisible work represented nothing but 50.6% of Galicia's gross domestic product, more than half. There's no other economic sector we can think of as having a similar approach. And in addition, this statistic insisted on another issue that is very important too: the profound inequality that exists in the distribution of time. In this way, we were told that if a middle-aged man used 2.1 hours a day in this kind of care and household chores, women more than twice as much as 4.7. And ten years ago this was the picture, we were so unequal. But, as I said before, in these ten years, things have happened: we have experienced an absolutely brutal financial crisis since 2008, which has worsened living conditions and working conditions; and we have also lived an unprecedented pandemic in our history, which has made many women back to homes, who have returned to homes, to take care that, if they could not otherwise endure, public systems were not responding either. So in this context, ignoring what the contribution is made to the economy through this invisible work is definitely preventing us from seeing whether we progress or not in the matter of equality and co-responsibility, and also preventing us from seeing the seams of the economic system and also the seams of social services, which are in essence to whom we often have to replace women. And, of course, we understand from the BNG that without knowing we can't move forward. And I'm going to set an example of another area. Today, there has already been a lot of talk -- it's never enough in this plenary -- of violence that is macho; I'm setting an example of sexual violence. We know from statistics that more than half the population thinks a rape is committed mostly by strangers. But we also know from statistics and studies that, even counting those violations that are already outside the scope of the couple, only 18% are committed by strangers. This is essential for education policies and policies to combat sexual and macho violence, because it's fucking assumed that it's much more likely that you're raped by a workmate or a friend who makes it a hooded street man, and that's frankly brutal and demolition. And, of course, it's demolition to assume also how normalized we have the inequality in the use of time and in such areas as what we intend to reflect today's study. But, of course, only knowledge shows inequality and only from knowledge can we overcome it. Does anyone imagine we were ten years, a decade, without any data on feminicides? Or can anyone imagine that we've been ten years -- I don't know -- without having the data every month of occupation, or about so many other issues we've been studying to move forward? So one might wonder why we normalize this invisible work, why we don't want to measure it, why we don't want to get into this question. So one of two: either you don't want to move or you want to hide, or both at once. Of course, this situation we understand that it cannot continue and we hope that there will be a correction today. I'm done. Today he read in the press an interview with the Greek playwright Fefa Noia, and he said, "The greatest danger of machismo is what is not verbalized." We add: the greatest danger of Machism is also that which is not measured, because, if it is not measured, it is camouflaged, and camouflaged is consent. And this initiative, in short, seeks the opposite: to make this inequality visible to build Galicia as great as we dream, in which we are all more feminists, until we are all free. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I want to begin my intervention by once again expressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group's rejection of the invasion by the Russian military forces of Ukraine and also expressing our position alongside the Spanish State and the European Union so that the necessary measures are taken to stop the desire for the power of the oligarch and tyrant Vladimir Putin, who is threatening the peace of the world. [[Applause]] Today, March 8, International Women's Day, our thoughts are with Ukrainian women and girls, victims of this genocide, who have to flee their homes, who have to flee from their lives to an uncertain future. And today too, March 8, socialists want to highlight, in the face of those who deny, violate or attack women's rights, the deep democratic value that feminism is supposed to have for women's freedom around the world. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have had two years of pandemic, a time when the seams of our welfare state have been evidenced, leaving sight of the inequalities that still exist in the work of domestic care and the precariousness of women's employment. According to the data drawn by the unions, the pandemic assumed that 73% of the job lost in Galicia was among the women, that the female activity rate is 8.8 points below the male and that Galicia is 5.4 points below the state average, and that the wage gap between men and women is around 19%. For this reason, the Government of Spain, headed by Pedro Sánchez, is aware that there will be no recovery if it is not guaranteeing real equality between men and women, has established gender equality as a cross-cutting axis of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, to channel European funds and to repair the damage caused by the crisis of coward-19; a firm commitment to a fair recovery, with a government that pushes public policies aimed at closing the gaps in inequalities that we still have pending today: the labour and wage divide, the digital divide or inequality in the field of co-responsibility. And this year, on this day, the socialists want to focus on co-responsibility, i.e. that shared responsibility between people who have the same duties and rights to their positions of responsibility. Today we are going to debate an initiative that talks about this reality, about a subject that Socialists are also concerned about, and we have already put forward initiatives in the same direction. But it's also worth pointing out that we're going to vote on a matter which is a legal provision approved by this camera and published in the DOG five years ago. I mean, let's once again bring an initiative to this parliament so that the Galician Union will comply with what it approves, uniquely and exclusively, with what it approves. On 17 February 2016 the consolidated text of the Greek Autonomous Community legal provisions on equality was published in the DOG. And in Article 29(3), he literally says: "The competent labour council will draw up a satellite account which will quantify the economic value of domestic work, care and community work carried out by women and men and give the aforementioned economic quantification the appropriate social publicity." We'd like to know the reasons for this non-compliance. Why hasn't this satellite account been made since 2013 again? I suppose in the intervention that corresponds to the People's Party they'll give us a successful explanation. Well, this latest household production satellite account in Galicia was published by the IGE in 2013, compared to 2010 and based on 2008. That is, the latest statistical data we have on this subject are 11 years ago, on a question that is not smaller, which places economic value on domestic production and on those productive activities that are not paid and therefore not included in GDP. And I say... and I say it's not less because in 2010 the gross added value of that unaccounted domestic production of the gross domestic product was 28,649 million euros, which would amount to 50.6% of the GDP of that year. [[Murmurs.]] Well, the 2010 household production satellite account, 11 years ago, as Mrs. BNG said, told us that the Greeks and the Greeks used an average of 3.5 hours a day to develop unpaid domestic and personal services for self-consumption. But if we make that distribution by looking at sex, because we see that while men used an average daily of 2.1 hours, women used 4.7 hours, that is, women produced 70.2% of that gross added value generated in domestic production in that year 2010. And what are we talking about when we talk about domestic production? Well, things like Mrs. Presas talked about are so normal and so everyday, that each and every one of us has in our lives, like cooking, washing, ironing, child and child care, caring for dependents or volunteer work. A productive work that is not waged but has a cost, that has an economic value, but that economic value is invisible if it is not quantified; and, the less quantified, the more invisible it is made. A productive work that by tradition is identified with female jobs and, as the writer, professor and feminist activist Silvia Federici said: "Home work has naturalized as if it were a female vocation; when man helps you, you say "thank you". For the truth is that this sentence quite well sums up the reality, unfortunately, of much of domestic work, a work that seems to correspond to women because yes, and that the part that assumes men because it is not interpreted as an assumption of their part in co-responsibility but as a help. Well, if we want to focus on this reality, which is known to all and for all, if we want to put the means to make there a real and greater co-responsibility, one of the first steps is to know and quantify that reality. The latest reports published and prepared by the UXT unions, Labour Commissions and IGCs for this March 8 on the care gap give us very revealing data and tell us that shared responsibility for the care of dependent families and children points 9 to 1 for women. That of the total number of people in Galicia who have a part-time contract for family care 22,100 are women, compared to 1,400 for men. And the same thing happens if we look at the reductions in days or surpluses; 76.4% of the reductions in working days by legal care of family members are requested by women, and 74% of family care surpluses are also requested by women. It's funny: the assumption of the tasks of family care by men increases if they're paid permits, while if they're not paid, they're essentially female. If we look at the type of contract, it's the same thing. Nearly 80% of part-time contracts in Galicia are signed by women. In 2021 men signed 135,000 full-day contracts more than women. And in the exercise of the rights of conciliation women were generally welcomed, in 80% of the cases. Well, the same report points out as causes of part-time contracts that, while men tend to be related to training or their own business, women also use these partial days for the care of children or family members, or in other cases, they win out because they are not offered full-time contracts. Well, we're going to vote in favour of this initiative. We tabled a amendment to this GNP which we hope the BNG Group will accept, and what we ask is that we take into account the variable degree of urbanization, since we understand that there are two realities and that, if women are already the great caregivers themselves, reality in the rural world and in the urban world also establishes a gap that must be contemplated and that must be taken into account, so that we take into account the two realities that exist in Galicia, which are, on the one hand, the rural world and, on the other hand, the urban world. And with regard to the third paragraph of the operative part of the BNG initiative, we will also vote in favour, understanding that the implementation of this convention takes time to make the necessary adjustments. But there is no doubt that the Government of the State, headed by Pedro Sánchez, has a clear disposition to real equality between men and women, and also to favor all the dysfunctions and all the turfs that are in matters of work. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u106	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to congratulate all the women of Greece on March 8, because without them, those who have been, who are and who will be, I am convinced that Galicia's story would have been and will be written quite differently. And also a special memory for the entire Ukrainian people and very especially for women on this 8th of March. [[Applause]] By entering into the content of the initiative, I would like to make, ladies and gentlemen, a series of reflections on the points that we are going to put to the vote today and to give the full explanation that Mrs Rumbo asked me to make in her speech. They're asking us to develop a satellite household production account in the first half of this year 2022. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the Galego Institute of Statistics has already made public months ago its commitment to advance periodic studies on the social and economic value of work in the home and care and is already taking the necessary steps to ensure that this study is implemented to achieve these objectives. And we also know that you have knowledge of this, and you have it through your representatives at the Galego Statistical Council, where this commitment has been made just over two months ago. That's why I'm surprised you tell Mrs. Presas that the Government wants to hide data, when it's you who tell the truth as it pleases them. Because it's been two months since your representative at the Galego Statistical Council knows about this subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You mentioned that already in 2010 with this government, the IGE developed and published a satellite household production account. For it was carried out based mainly on the results for Galicia of a previous survey of the time uses of the National Institute of Statistics. So since the German Government, there has been some experience in this matter and in these surveys. The reasonable thing, even if it does not seem to you, is to base information on INE, above all, ladies and gentlemen, because it guarantees coherence and comparability, which is of utmost importance in this area and to compare with other autonomous communities and other regions or states at European level. In addition, time-use surveys have a great complexity, due to the response burden and the economic costs of their elaboration, so at this point, we are working on new methodologies to obtain and process information in a simpler and simpler way, ensuring efficient use of public resources. For these reasons, the INE, which had planned to carry out a new survey on time uses, is delaying its own project. And he does it for two reasons basically. First, by trying to ease that response burden and secondly to converge with European methodologies and calendars, which are still not closed today. It's not an argument about my harvest that I just gave you. The president of the INE at the last Interterritorial Committee on Statistics, in response to a question put to him by the Director of the IGE on the conduct of the time-use survey, objected that the Government set itself as a goal for 2023 its realization and also to evaluate and verify a new information collection tool designed at European level and supported by mobile devices. I bring them proof that in the People's Party we know what we're talking about and we do it with data. Look, this is the Royal Decree 97/2002 — if you want to see it, I leave it to the President — so the annual programme 2022 of the National Statistical Plan is approved, where it is collected as preparatory work for the Time Employment Survey, work to be carried out in the year 2022. [[Mr. Pérez López shows a document.]] This document expresses the little rigour that you are now asking this Parliament for as far as this initiative is concerned. And I continue because I still have some data to give them, gentlemen. Look, both the IGE and the Employment and Equality Council have committed themselves, as I told them, in December 2021, at the heart of the Galician Statistical Council, to launch in 2023 a time-use survey, with INE information and consistent with European methodology. Moreover, if the Government of the State fails to comply with this decree that I have just taught them and continues to delay the drafting of this statistics, the Galego Council of Statistics has undertaken to develop its own from Galicia on a technical project to be approved by the Galician Council. And you should know. They should know — they will repeat — because at the Galego Statistical Council they feel a person designated both by the Galician Nationalist Block and by the Socialist Party who made this commitment that was adopted in their bosom in February. We cannot go for free, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go for free, because the technique of statistics implies a rigorous and serious procedure and applies the principles of consistency and comparability and because we need the result of that satellite account to respond to a methodology consistent with the studies carried out both at the state level and at the European level and to allow us to exchange data, to enable us to make use of them and to compare results. It won't be in the first half of 2022, as you ask, for the reasons I just gave them, but somehow the performances will begin in the year 2023, and that's our commitment and commitment to the Greek Government. And, therefore, there is no doubt in them that the German Government is working, is doing so in accordance with the standards of coherence and comparability, and is doing so in unison with the National Institute of State Statistics, with rigor and responsibility, with rigor and institutional responsibility that characterizes both the Greek Government and the People's Party, and which you do not have. In short, Galicia will have a coherent and comparable statistical account at European level, at which all the necessary levels and areas will be specified, Mrs Rumbo — no matter how it was amended — and with a system for the collection of reliable and adjusted data in time and at its cost. And if we agree in a fact with you, in that the elaboration of this kind of study allows you to know and visualize the domestic and care work that women basically perform in our country, and it allows us to also make clear the differences that still exist between women and men in carrying out these tasks, and that are many. But of course all governments have been working on this issue for years both at European level and in Spain and, of course, also in Galicia. And in view of today's initiative — I'm sorry I'm so insistent — the only ones who seem not to be working on this topic in depth are those of the Galician Nationalist Block Group. The feeling we have, Mrs Presas, is that for you it's just a matter of political opportunism, because that's the only way you could explain that you come to this chamber and that you can afford to come up with contemporary agreements. He wants to set deadlines that he knows beforehand that he's not realistic, because we're in March, and you're asking for a survey in the first half of this year, and correcting who he's working to provide statistical instruments to the Greek society and to know and be able to study the participation of men and women in the tasks of home, in order to promote real equality between women and men and to make a more relevant Galicia in the future. If you're serious, you're still in time to remove some point from this LNP and from the vote. On the second agreement they propose, I remind you that the official statistics, including the time-use survey, should be carried out within Galicia's statistical organization, which, as you know or should know, is composed of the IGE, the sectoral statistical bodies of the councils and the Galego Statistical Council, where the three parliamentary groups of this chamber and the three Greek public universities are represented. And universities can perform any subsequent analysis or study of results, which, if desired, will always count at all times with the collaboration of the IGE. This is reality, it's so simple, and I feel it doesn't match yours. And concerning point 3, to ask the Central Government not to delay the process of ratifying Convention 189, we have nothing to object to from our group. It is an agreement that was adopted in 2011, which certainly in the early years has already been ratified in countries where there was no consolidated legislation on this issue, and moving it to our legal system presented some difficulties in the future of the legislation of our country. In fact, there is a unanimous agreement between the Congress of Deputies groups to continue working to solve these problems and difficulties. Agreement which was certainly very positively appreciated by the director of the ILO office for Spain. Today, the question of ratification of the convention in this chamber is a new example for me of opportunism, and at the state level it is a bit denaturalized, in addition to the sprawling of scenes of lack of dialogue and political coherence between the state's common government. And I'm telling you because that's happening statements that are simply in that, in mere manifestations of will. And, in April last year, the Minister of Labour, Mrs. Díaz, a part of the Government announced that proceedings for ratification of the Convention had already been initiated. A month later the Socialist Party, another part of the Government, presented an initiative in the Senate urging the Government to ratify it. In October 2021, after the housewives were revealed, the Government insists that proceedings were initiated, and even in the statement of reasons for a resolution of December last year, the Ministry of Labour insists — with great enthusiasm, yes — on the ratification of this agreement despite the fact that it was a priority theme of the government pact. How do you treat your priorities? I know, Mrs. Presas, that you don't sit on the Council of Ministers, but, given that they bring this agreement to this chamber today and taking into account that in your election schedule of the general elections of the year 2019 they demanded the ratification of that agreement, I would like you to tell me if your ideological boss, Mr. Rego, has asked some questions in Congress these three years or has made a proposal in this regard. And you don't have to answer me anymore, I answer you: you didn't do anything at all. And that reaffirms to me that what they're doing is using this date opportunistically so that it seems they do and thus hide their irresponsibility in this matter, despite the famous covenant they signed and which allowed Mr. Sánchez to arrive at the Moncloa and not rule. And I'm done. Look, the best guarantee we can give women this March 8 by all Members, but especially us as women, is our delivery, our commitment and our work to further improve their rights and their well-being in all respects. And from this parliament and from the Council of Galicia this government, within the scope of its competences, which seems to be difficult for you to understand at times, it has not ceased to work at all for 13 years and 7 days to move forward and improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u108	...the conditions for women's participation in society. And he will continue to do so, ladies and gentlemen, with discretion and rigour, as things are done; there is no doubt about that. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Three questions before too long, Mrs Pérez. The first one is that, of course, you don't understand anything, is that the women in this country don't want congratulations, what we want are rights, rights, and for that we are in this parliament. [[Applause]] Secondly, I remind you that the alpha males match is yours, eh! At the BNG, women don't have heads. Don't worry about it. [[Applause]] And thirdly, of course, he comes here with pride and a very bold ignorance to tell us that we have no rigour and that what we had to know is this, the other one. I'll disassemble him because, of course, the first thing we had to know is that they don't have the slightest shame in recognizing that they've been breaking their own law for years, as Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo reminded you, or I'll remind you too. That's what always surprises us: that they have no shame but always have the ability to surprise us. [[Applause]] But look, about the commitment of the Galego Institute of Statistics, I have here the records of the Galego Council of Statistics. Of course, in those minutes, since the BNG recovered its presence, he was doing what he had done before and what was done in the previous legislation, which was to ask this government to exercise self-government and to develop that inquiry in place of systematically adjournment. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] That's what our representative has been doing on the Galego Board of Statistics. And do you know that you have been constantly received in that Galego Council of Statistics? You're sorry, you're sorry, you're sorry. [[Applause]] Also in that month of December, because, of course, the last Galego Statistical Council in December, after you here, you too, Mrs Pérez, pressed "no", "no" to the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego in the processing of the Statistical Plan that asked it to speed up and secure this issue. [[Applause]] Maybe you should check the records, Mrs. Pérez. Besides, you were an incoherent, because you say at the same time that we can't go for free, but then you seem like you want to put on as well as a self-government leg and then you say, well, if the state continues to be painless and doesn't, just like we do. Of course, they don't have the slightest credibility. And look, it's possible that it's done, and we could do some over these years, because there were other countries that did, because Euskadi, for example, once every five years ago, something that Galicia could do perfectly, and that gives data on this matter. And you didn't do it, simple and only because self-government is a very bad thing to put on the jacket's lap when ruling the Socialist Party, but then, to exercise it, it already counts differently. [[Applause]] And we insist: it is gathered at the initiative and made mention of it to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo; it says so by its own law. It is that Article 29.3 of Legislative Decree 2/2015: the competent working council will draw up a satellite account where the economic value of home care and community work carried out by women and men will be quantified and given the mentioned economic quantification and due social publicity. Do you know what's going on, Mrs. Pérez? That you miss both the rigor and the enforcement of the law; then, no equality plans in teaching or equality plan in the public administration, nor to develop article 25 of the Law on Mashistic Violence to provide psychological attention in primary care, nor to make statistics on domestic work. [[Applause]] It will not return to us the image that the self-denominated Government of Promotion and Reconciliation actually does not bet on public services and leaves a Galicia more unequal than 13 years ago, also in the matter of gender equality. Maybe that's why they don't want to see reality for you. [[Applause]] And then I'm absolutely relieved of the issue of home workers and the ratification of ILO Convention 189. We've come here to ask for something we've been asking for for years, to ask the household workers, to go to our election program. You think it's wrong, though it's good that the agreement is ratified. I don't know if it's intended because you guys when I rule Mr. Rajoy didn't move a finger to ratify the agreement either, of course. Well, we were where we are. [[Applause]] Yesterday we claimed that it was fundamental and today we claimed that it is fundamental, and we will continue to do so. So I'm done with two last questions. The penultimate is that the excuse you said here and that is also given on the Galego Council of Statistics and that it has already been given in this chamber is that this survey is expensive; then, of course, we already know that when it comes to women's rights, the price matters, right? It's like we're doing San Caetano reform, like we're segregating educational concerts by sex, we're giving 0.7% of the IRPF help to anti-abortist associations like RedMadre, so the price theme we've already looked at that way. [[Applause]] In any case, we insist: this inquiry has to be done as soon as possible; if we do not wait for the Spanish State, because we do not expect it, because to move forward equally in other areas such as violence against men and the recognition of an absolutely vanguardist definition, we do not expect the Spanish State. Well, of course you can't do this either. So we keep insisting that we want all rights and that we want them now. In that sense — and I now end with this last issue — we of course accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. We agree that it is an important criterion to be included in the survey. One of the last studies there is at the state level, which is precisely Aragon's, which made the Government of Aragon in collaboration with the University of Carlos III and which estimated important data in this regard, also included this variable and insisted that it is a phenomenon that occurs more intensively as age progresses and also as the population's size decreases. So it seems to us that we have a positive question and we appreciate that they made that approach. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with the next non-law proposition. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council to declare officially on 10 March as the Day of the Worker Class Glaga
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u112	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Fernandez Alfonso has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u113	Good afternoon. In the first days of March 1972 he signed in Madrid, and under the auspices of Rodolfo Martín Villa, a collective agreement for Bazán, a unique collective agreement for Ferrol, Cadiz and Cartagena. It was signed without the presence of representatives of Ferrol's staff, who had decided at the assembly to demand the negotiation of a collective agreement own for Bazán-Ferrol, breaking with the state framework and bringing collective bargaining to the assemblies in the workplace and to the specific reality of each territory. After the convention was signed in Madrid, assemblies were held again in Bazán and the main union leaders were dismissed, preventing them from entering the facilities. Before this event, on March 9th again in the assembly, the staff decided to close at the yard, about eight o'clock in the morning, and concentrate in front of the management building. At five o'clock in the afternoon, an important armed police device within the company, which surrounds the workers and the workers and charges to expel them from the facilities. The police violently drove 5,000 people through a six-foot-wide door. During the cargo there were a multitude of blows and injuries caused by crushing, all but a few yards from the dam that is between the management building and the door where the staff were expelled, which was at that time empty, so all the presence witnesses agree that this 9th police charge may have produced a real massacre. The company's management decides not to open the doors the next day on 10 March. About seven and a half o'clock in the morning, and in the face of the impossibility of getting involved in the work, the staff, concentrated in the Cantons, headed to Caranza, with the intention of joining the construction workers there were precisely raising that neighborhood and then moving to the pias to join the Astano workers, who were getting ready to meet him on the bridge. They were intercepted at the beginning of the Pias Avenue by two sections of the Armed Police, who carried out several charges and shot at the workers, with the result of two dead, Amador Rey Rodríguez and Daniel Niebla García, besides twenty-eight wounded, sixteen of them. [[Applause]] Present testimonials recall, for example, that several bursts of machine guns destroyed the top crystals of a passenger bus where they had been sheltered. Subsequently, gunshot wounds in the chest, shoulders and heads confirmed suspicions: the police shot to kill. Ferrol was put in a state of emergency for 20 days and a ship from the Navy was destined in the creek to protect the shipyards and, if necessary, fly the bridge of the Pias. More than 200 people were fired into the area, one hundred sixty-nine arrested, many tortured and forty-three turned to trial. The facts were never clarified, starting with the presence and police burden within the Bazan facilities on March 9th. This operation, seen from the perspective of time, causes some of the present to suspect that it was prepared, in an attempt to discipline the workers and workers of the Bazan, who had come meaning by continually and in solidarity with all the demands of the workers of the city, such as Pysbe or the Peninsula of Maderera. Those workers' demands of Ferrol, who had their detonating labour problems — collective agreement, dismissals, etc. — also had another clear objective: to erode the Frankish regime and the conquest of freedoms and social justice, and permanent mobilization and solidarity were their tools. And it may have been precisely an attempt to suppress that worker solidarity, that example of struggle spreading through Ferrol's district, which led to an unprecedented qualitative leap. Immediately after the events of March 10th, on the other great industrial pole of Galicia, in Vigo, they begin to call themselves solidarity unemployment, first on the yards and then on Citroën. And for several days the workers' demonstrations took the city. In the months that followed, and also coinciding with the negotiation of the collective barreras agreement and with demands for job improvements in Vulcan and Citroën, more than fifteen thousand workers and metal workers arrived in Vigo County. The student movement in Compostela also went out into the streets and traveled through the city in demonstration and solidarity with the unemployed workers. The events of March 10, 1972 caused an earthquake of consciences. It was clear that political objectives transcended labour demands; the struggle for freedom and social justice were the flag; labor unity and solidarity, the tool. The allegations of the repression and violence inflicted by that criminal regime have reached where they had never been expected, for example, to the Church. Amador and Daniel were two workers from Bazán and neighbors of the parish of San Pablo, in Ferrol. The authorities banned their funerals to prevent the concentration of people, and caused an unusual and memorable event to happen at the funeral. The parish priest, Antonio Martínez Aneiros, qualified the martyrs' workers and forced the audience — many of them uniformed and peasanted policemen — to kneel on the floor in front of the coffins. The bishop of the Diocese of Mondoñedo-Ferrol, Miguel Ángel Araújo, signed a homily in which the facts were condemned and called for a peaceful settlement of the conflicts; a homily that not without strong discrepancies could be one of the first convictions of the Frankish regime made by the Church. In fact, there were some parishes that refused to read, as well as the COPE itself in Ferrol, which also refused. But over all things was solidarity which exceeded any expectation. The helmets mouthed up at the entrance of the factory locks and the collections in the parishes, especially in San Pablo, Canido, San Juan or Caranza, were the mechanisms to help the people who were dismissed, arrested and reprisaled. Three years later the movement continued in the industrial centers throughout Galicia. In June 1975, on the dates that were to be judged by the deeds of the 72, the ones that were known as the twenty-three Ferrol, there were stops at Ferrol (in Astano), Mugardos, Vigo and the Bridges, where the press of the time collected that four thousand people had stopped. In all cases, unemployment and assembly ended by sending telegrams to different government authorities expressing solidarity with the people judged and demanding their acquittal. Today no one doubts that those events, the value, determination, solidarity and dignity of all those people were decisive in the struggle against the Franco-Francist dictatorship. At the same time, they left an unbridled footprint throughout a generation of workers and workers, in their families and in Greek society as a whole, without which the force or current composition of the union movement in Galicia would not be understood. [[Applause]] A struggle led at the time of 72 by the people of the Communist Party and Labour Commissions and which at the same time meant the agromar of a German nationalist trade unionism, which has always been declared heir to that spirit. At the commemoration of the twenty-five anniversary of those events, Alfonso Tellado Sande, one of the workers of the Bazán fired and imprisoned, and later the union leader of the IGC, would say in an interview that day that the workers' movement of Galicia had become a German worker movement. Fifty years later, Galicia's union movement continues to commemorate those events year after year, and what they meant, institutionalizing in a popular and well-established way, though informal, the date of March 10 as the Galaga Work Class Day. At the BNG we consider that the historical and social transcendence of those events and the permanence in memory of the commemorations during these fifty years must logically derive from the deserved institutional recognition. And what a better time than this fiftieth anniversary for the German Parliament to finally grant this letter of legality, this institutional recognition through the official declaration of March 10 as Galaga Work Class Day! Nothing else for now, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u114	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. On March 10, 72, the Frankish Police murdered two officers of the ferronal committee, and half a hundred more protesters were injured in a union protest at the Bazan shipyards in Ferrol. The public yard then negotiated its collective agreement. A year ago communist militants and workers' commissions infiltrated the vertical union cooped corporate jury posts in the Ferrol factory. In the face of a negotiation that would clearly impose the conditions of the employer, the Greek trade unionists demand to separate themselves from the company as a whole and agree on their own agreement. The reason was not the state negotiator field but the imposition of a collective agreement clearly contrary to the demands of workers and workers. [[Applause]] The demonstrations, arrests and strikes begin in the early days of March, assembling thousands of workers. The reprisals begin, the dismissal of six members of the works committee, and a strike takes place on March 9th. The workers are in the factory to apply for the re-sentence of the redundancies. That same afternoon, the Armed Police entered Bazán and charged the workers and left a result of six hospitalizations. That afternoon the police ordered the workers to leave the factory premises and, in the face of their resistance, they took a load without rest. The workers had to flee, many stayed on the floor and were brutally beaten by the guards. This was the background to what happened on March 10. Amador Rey and Daniel Niebla met with the rest of the workers at the closed doors of the yard and began a demonstration with the aim of joining the companions of the Fene yard. At the height of Porta Nova the Armed Police was charged against the demonstrators, Amador died in the victim of a shot and Daniel died hours later in the Residency of the Crown. In addition, it is estimated that about a hundred people were injured by bullets; many later they were not identified for not going to health centers, obviously. Solidarity spread throughout Galicia — as the spokesperson for the BNG —, unemployment in factories such as Citroën in Vigo or strikes in Galicia and in many Spanish cities. If I may, I will read a piece of an article by my partner and friend Gonzalo Iglesias sueiro, intellectual and political galego, one that welcomed the retaliations and reflects the event in a splendid way: "History to be told. On March 10, 72, the Frankish Police fired at a demonstration of workers from the railway yard of the national company Bazán, wounding several of them and killing the workers Amador Rey and Daniel Niebla. His crime was not to manifest himself in demand of an agreement in defense of the dismissed workers, all members of the union leaders Workers' Committees — salutes, Jesus — and of the Communist Party of Galicia. The repression was unleashed in the organizers and dozens of workers were imprisoned, persecuted and accused of several crimes and some of them being subjected to military justice. The facts marked March 10 as Galaga Work Class Day. On the 11th of March the then young and today old millenarian received instructions from the party: it was supposed to collect leaders from Labour Commissions who were searching and catching by the repressive Frankist forces. The militant discipline — from the pseudonym Acebal — received from his comrade Carlos Vázquez, owner of the Tank Library, the keys to his car. The meeting place was a bar located at the entrance of Santiago, the identification was a newspaper that would sit on the table. A grown-up man, aged 60, approached him and put his hand on his shoulder, and said, "Don't worry, boy." He was union leader Francisco Fernández Filgueiras. Ramiro Romero and Pepe Julio Miraz were found at the beautiful table. They returned to Ourense at full speed, headed to the house where the three workers were to be sheltered. The apartment was located in one of the two rear parts of Empalme station in Ourense. They were detained for more than a month and then painted the sites of the Breogán cultural grouping. Faced with the possibility of a political police intervention, the party decided to transfer the fugitives to a new shelter, to the house of Sorega that owned the lawyer Alfonso Pazos Bande in Santa Ana, a mission that he continued to carry out Acebal. Acebal recalls that he shifted to France and was there receiving orders from the party requesting urgent return to Ourense; the revolutionary proscribeds had to be transferred to another area, for at any time they could be stopped. The disciplined militant decided to hide them in the old village of Limeres, in Sardinia, territory that had served as a refuge for his grandfather in the Civil War. Again, the party decided to move them permanently to a safe place. Remember the old millennium that led them to Lugo, where a comrade in that province took over. Later, they were taken to France. He says, "It was times of repression and death but also of solidarity and companionship. Thank you, Gonzalo; thank you, Acebal." [[Applause]] It is also appropriate to mention Rafael Pillado, the political and union leader of the Labour Commissions, who in statements to the media made public that he suffered from asbestos cancer, cancer caused by his work in the construction of the extinct Bazán. I take this opportunity to thank him for the interesting conversation I had with him these days, an honor to me. And he says, "I was at the center of all that. The first memory is always for Daniel running behind the police. About a foot and a half of me was shot. I had to leave him on the floor to protect myself. Everything that happened there is in my mind." Half a century later he stressed that it was not just the negotiation of a collective agreement, it was the battle against dictatorship. Look, I can't resist making a criticism of the explanatory statement and the statement made by the BNG spokesperson, who tries to rewrite a history of union struggle, of non-nationalist but internationalist workers' struggle. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, the only union mention they make in the exhibition of motives in this chamber was to the IGC organization, which at that time was not yet constituted and was not, for good or for bad. It's important to be respectful of history. Rewrite it with partisan interests I don't think it's ethical. In fact, the transcendence of these events led the Parliament of Galicia to adopt unanimously on 5 March an institutional statement on 10 March, in which the historical significance of that date was recognized. [[Applause]] Subsequently, on 9 March 2006, the authorities of the Galician Nationalist Bloc themselves, adopted a resolution in the same sense in Commission 5 and so requested in the proposal was already made on 10 March and celebrated as Labour Class Day since 1972, subsequently recognised in the Galician Parliament in 1997 and in 2006. It's also important to be clear, because of the importance of the facts we're dealing with. Last month the trade union organization Commissions made a request to re-edit the 1997 institutional declaration and to the compliance of the twenty-five years of the institutional declaration, with the support of all groups, including the Galician Nationalist Block, so the Galician Parliament declared the 10th March working class day. And the BNG, a left-wing force, vetoed it. The Socialist Parliamentary Group does not understand this refusal to subscribe to an institutional declaration. That signing unanimously would have more strength if it were possible than a PNP that we are debating today. The explanation is up to you. As we do not understand other negatives of the nationalist union to participate together in the May 1 protests with UXT and Commissions, or in the concentrations and demonstrations of March 10th, at a time when the serious situation of employment and industrial life in Galicia would require this exhibition of union union. [[Applause]] Nor do we understand the opposition to labour reform, committed by social agents, which, with the data of February in hand, both those of registered unemployment and those of membership to Social Security, reflects the positive impact of reform with the record growth of indefinite recruitment in Galicia. With regard to the empowerment of a German framework of labour relations, we have to say that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we always bet and we believe that the framework of labour relations must be universal, as the working class is universal. But it is true that it is also necessary to articulate proximity frameworks, proximity frameworks that can deal with the problems of the Greek labour market, which, unfortunately, are more intense than those of the average of the rest of the state. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group, aware that this empowerment must come from the hands of Galicia's most representative trade union and business organizations, believes that for this we must boost the social dialogue, so forgotten, and enhance an instrument that should be the cornerstone of this framework, which is nothing other than the Galego Labour Relations Council, a bipartisan public, which must be the body called to face such a framework, as they did in the Basque Country. And that's why we can't share the proposition in its literality, because it aims to modify the proposal already adopted by everyone and for the sole purpose of dividing or dividing the celebration of the working class, when by definition it must be a universal class. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, March 10, 1972 was a tragic and certainly significant day, one before and after the unionism of our country. Looking back, that date is an explicit reference that can be framed in the democratic struggle of civil society against dictatorship. Fifty years later, we can look back, with the calm that time offers, and — yes — always thinking about the victims and their families, with which we all solidarity once again today, because after so long they will still have a suffering that they never forget. We want, we can and we must make an effort to learn history, because a people who forgets their history is doomed to repeat it. And nobody here wants to repeat any of this. On the contrary, democracy has been conquered by all. In the People's Party we are convinced that the transition was a monumental exercise of true collective responsibility. Some have expressly renounced their legitimate aspirations, in order to achieve a common goal, which was to live in peace. Reducing legitimacy or value to transition is a way of denying democracy that we all have. Having said this, as has already been said here, this chamber has already been pronounced in support and in commemoration of the event on 10 March 1972. We did so expressly and unanimously on 9 March 2006, with the vote in favour of the People's Group and the rest of the political forces of the parliamentary arch at that time. An agreement that we believe to be fully effective, that we do not want your initiative, the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego, to contribute to misdirection. By the way, as it was well said here, it was precisely the initiative in 2006 of the Member of the Nationalist Block Galego Fernando Blanco Parga, and the agreement said: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to expressly join the events of March 10 in commemoration of what the Romanian trade union organizations call Gallega Workers' Day, and recognise it as a reference date for all the efforts and sacrifices that the workers and workers of Galicia made in 1972, individually and collectively, to contribute peacefully to bringing democracy." One hundred per cent deal today. Fifty years later, on 10 March, a union, Labour Commissions, proposed to all the political forces of this chamber an institutional declaration of support and recognition of these facts. The Galician Nationalist Block has opposed, after having received the proposal from the Labour Commissions, to submit a unilaterally, its own initiative, which is the one we are debating right now. We're not going to whiten the bad conscience of nationalism with this veto. Workers' commissions were only looking for the fair protagonist of history, when it's not twisted. The institutional statement that the Galego Nationalist Block boycotted was an homage to the struggle that day and a way to remember the tragic events of March 10, 72. By the way, the initiative has already been read on the occasion of the twenty-five anniversary, the People's Party being the party of the government and at that time being the Nationalist Block of Galicia — it must be remembered — the main party of the opposition. Today it makes us suspect that the Block has vetoed the agreement because it couldn't be understood as a nationalist key. BNG is obsessed with raising walls and differences between the Greeks. They do so on that day, with inaccuracies as to present as a confrontation between a state and Greek agreement, which was actually a confrontation between an interprovincial agreement and another one of the factory. They do this with Working Class Day, claiming their officialization, as opposed to the 1st of May, held in eighty countries as a consensus date for that world day. They do it with the name of our country, in that Nationalist Galician that most of the Greeks don't fit. We're used to nationalists refuting history, of course, but on that objective it doesn't contain with us. The People's Party will not support this initiative or whiten the bad conscience of the BNG. [[Applause]] The rights and interests of the German workers and workers are not defended with slogans, they defend themselves with facts. They do not defend themselves by becoming mere puppets of the brother nationalist union, which at that time did not exist, and refusing to participate in the table of social dialogue. The rights and interests of working men and women do not defend themselves by putting the letter "The" of worker in the name of a party and then applying policies that lead to the impoverishment of working families, such as the inaction of Government Sanchez in the face of the unabated rise in the prices of light and fuel, or the inability to curb the increase in the basket of purchase. And if this was little, they're now threatening us to raise our taxes. Condemning a fiscal hell doesn't help, gentlemen, at all. The rights and interests of the workers and workers in Greece must be defended with facts, done like the active employment policies that are taking forward to Galician Union to increase the labour opportunities of the Greeks and the Greeks. For this parliamentary group and for the German Government, the highest priority is to improve the labour market, to reduce unemployment, and to do so in social dialogue. And it is the facts and objective data that assess the employment policies of the Galician Union, achieving concrete results in the labour market. So that Union works with facts, when it gets the number of unemployed not only to continue on pre-pandadem levels, but also for Galicia to record the lowest unemployment figure in a February month of the entire historical series, and it already accumulates eleven consecutive months of unemployment in annual evolution. Trade unions and workers deserve all our respect and deserve all the commitment of the People's Party. For them we work from the People's Party and from the Galician Union every day of the year. Today our democracy is healthy and it is a guarantee of rights and freedoms. Many of these achievements are due to the struggle of the worker and the role that workers play. Today, fortunately, trade unions, employers and public administrations go hand in hand, reach agreements thanks to a social dialogue framework that continues to be promoted both in Galicia and Spain. Together we are able to combat emerging injustices and address those aspects in which as a society we still have margin of improvement. Today, in this social dialogue table, which is part of workers, employers and administrations, there has been, from consensus, many decisions that contribute to the common good. That framework of relations that we have always defended from the People's Group, and not a trap initiative that merely seeks to wash away the bad conscience of nationalism when it denied recognition for the role played at that time by the union Workers' Commissions. The workers in this country defend themselves with facts. Now to be with the unions and the workers is to be next to the families employed for example in Alcoa, Alu Iberiana, Gamesa, The Bridges, and we could follow, gentlemen. We support that all governments, including the central and the Galician Union, make decisions aimed at ensuring the competitiveness of businesses, also in the energy field, and in jobs. This is the way we stand for from the People's Party, and this is the road that also defends the Government of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u118	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u119	Good afternoon again. At the BNG, we consider that today, 50 years ago, of the workers' mobilizations of 10 March 1972, 50 years of the criminal reprisals of that franchise regime, which was born and died by murdering discrepants, should be used to put three things into value. First, democracy and social justice go hand in hand. It was well known by workers and workers in 72, who claimed democracy and freedoms and decent living and working conditions. Secondly, participation is the key to a real democracy. Democracy is not that we can all vote every four years to choose some rulers; democracy is essentially participation, for example, in those areas that condition our lives, such as labor relations and collective bargaining. And thirdly, for participation to be effective, the negotiating areas — the negotiating tables — have to get closer, have to be located in areas or places where such participation may occur, because the rights that cannot be exercised are as if they did not exist. [[Applause]] Democracy and freedoms, dignified living conditions and effective participation of workers and workers are three links in a chain that moves the wheel forward, three links in the chain that makes society move forward. But the driving force, the force that prints motion to that chain, is the organization and mobilization of the working class. If there is a lack of organization and mobilization, the prison for, and society can even go back, which is what is happening today, which makes it easier for example for the Government of PSOE-United States We can just approve a job reform after a year of social dialogue with employers, Commissions and UGT that begins to assume the framework designed by the previous reform of the People's Party. What was missing during this year of social dialogue? Real debate and social mobilization. This also makes it easier, for example, that while the light is at the top of history and while the great energies steal hands full, the Social Dialogue Bureau is talking about wage restraint, nothing to do with the spirit of 72. And always the unity of the left as a claim, as an argument to silence discrepancies, as an argument to dilute the goals in favor of the unity itself, as if it were a good in itself. They've just made the unit on the left a soup of acronyms, an unfounded soup of letters. Nothing to do with the spirit of the 72nd, when it was the objectives, and not the slogans of the summoners, who achieved the labor unity. At the BNG we know these tactics well, we know where they lead us, and from the very point of view of all the political opinions and all the trade union options, especially since fellowship with all the people who carry out a basic union militancy in any union center, we draw a series of lessons from the events we commemorate every 10th of March: that the organization and mobilization of the working class are the force that moves the wheel forward, are the force that makes society move forward. They were talking about changing history. Does putting that popular movement behind the current Constitution and the present Statute of autonomy not seem to be out of the question? Do you honestly believe that the struggle against dictatorship and freedoms can be transformed into an acrylic defense of this Constitution and this Statute of autonomy? Is this historical honesty? We don't think so. Greek nationalism has never claimed to have played a leading role in those events, the protagonist was and is the working class of Galician. And Mr. Balsairo also overturned: my colleague Fernando Blanco's original proposal was exactly the same as we brought here today: that he had officially declared himself on 10 March as Galaga Workers' Day. The resolution you read is the result of a transaction; therefore, it is not the same. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u120	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia on employment measures to achieve equality of women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u121	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u122	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Today, March 8, International Women's Day, a hundred and sixty-five years ago, textile women in the United States made a strike claiming better wages and better working conditions. Today in Galicia we have to keep claiming those better wages and better conditions to eliminate the gender gap. The Socialist Parliament therefore calls on this Parliament to set up a follow-up observatory for employment measures aimed at achieving equality for women and men established by the Galician Council, and that the aforementioned observatory takes into account the conclusions issued quarterly in the Galician Parliament in the corresponding commission, as well as we urge it to re-plan the employment measures that pursued to achieve equality for women and men when the PP has acceded to the government. The PP, when it arrived in 2009 at the Galician Summit, what it did was eliminate all employment equality policies set up by the Bipartisan Government Labour Council. In 2008, the Aurora Plan was launched, which incorporated different measures, some already implemented and other new ones linked to this year's budgets. The People's Party from 2009 to 2020 preferred to leave a thousand and five hundred million euros out of the Employment and Equality Council than to apply them to equality policies. The People's Party speaks of equality but does not implement policies to achieve it. This Aurora Women's Employment Plan incorporated as a guiding principle its action the full inclusion of women in equal opportunities, encouraging measures to promote training, enabling the reconciliation of family, personal and professional life and ensuring the incorporation into the labour force of women who were in a vulnerable situation or in conditions marked by social disadvantage. We never saw the People's Party continue with them, nor did there be any other alternatives; they just did very little in this field. It's essential to put your hand out of the data. On the annual average of 2021 EPA, if we analyze by busy people -- not for hours, if not the situation would be much different and much worse, because, as you know, one person who works two hours as one who provides services throughout the working day, and women in Galicia copy part-time jobs -- has set up a situation, in this case of 2.2 points of difference in favour of men in the whole waged employment in Galicia; there are 447,687 men and 428,712 women. These data are not transferred to the set of the 170 occupational subgroups which classify the 2011 National Occupational Classification — from 2011 onwards — as a result of the NOC. Only in 28 subgroups of this classification women and men have a parity representation; of 170 only 28, so the first conclusion is that only in one of seven jobs is the probability of being occupied by a man or a woman. In Galicia in 2021, according to EPA, there are 90 occupations in which women represent less than 40% of the employed; they are maleized occupations. The second conclusion is that in Galicia men have twice as many professional outputs as women do. This is the gender gap behind an important part of the wage gap. Among the masculine occupations there are 53 with less than 15% of women. These 53 occupations, or more exactly occupational subgroups, make up one out of four employees. According to this data, we can draw a fourth conclusion: women are excluded from 25% of jobs. The pandemic also affected equality, and since no action was taken to alleviate its effect, this was negative. The lack of measures to alleviate the effect of the pandemic on the gender gap made the difference between men and women from 11,466 in 2019 to 18,975, an increase of 65% difference. If we analyze the variations that have occurred in the occupations since 2011, we can project the date on which parity could be produced by keeping a similar variation. This variation will allow us to evaluate the impact of employment policy on equality or its absence. To do this analysis we will start from the 17 main group divisions. Within the maleized occupational groups, there are six in which parity will never be achieved, because the presence of women has decreased. In the group of professional support technicians, men grow by 16.2 percent, and women do by 12.3%. This evolution — more men than women — makes it impossible to achieve parity. This group includes, among others, engineering technicians, who would achieve parity in 2525; representatives and commercial agents, in 2170; in ICT, women only occupy 18.7% of jobs and parity in 2183; in the group of workers in the protection and security services, women occupy one in ten jobs, decrease from 2011; in the group of skilled workers in the agricultural, livestock, forestry and fisheries sector, women represent only 15%; in 1.159 women employed less in the primary sector: a decrease of 34.4% compared to 5.6% men; in skilled workers in construction, women's presence is anecdotic, not reaching 1%; in plant and machinery operators were equal in 2011 and became masculinized in 2021, as men increased in 2,108 and women in 2,402. If we follow this way, the same way: in drivers and mobile machinery operators only occupy one in twenty-five jobs women. And we have another conclusion: there are six groups of masculinized occupations, which were already in 2011, in which the gender gap increased further by increasing the weight of men: 1.4% against women by 0.6%. In addition to these six groups, there are four others who, at this rate, to cut the gap still more than one hundred and fifty years old: directors and managers; skilled workers of manufacturing industries — which parity in this case would be 2214 — farmers, fisheries, construction and manufacturing industries, etc. Another conclusion is that no group of masculine occupations will achieve parity within a minimally acceptable period of time. From this first look at the distribution by sex in occupations, it appears as an obvious conclusion: the authorities — the Galician Union and the German Government — who had to implement equality policies, did not do so. The first of these is that the percentage of women's participation in hierarchically higher groups is lower than that of their weight in lower groups. This is the palpable sample of the glass ceiling in the whole labour market. While women account for 48.9% of all group A occupations — directors and managers — they represent only 32.7%, 16.2 points less. In the primary sector, in the manufacturing industry — by example — women who work as pawns have a percentage of 70 points participation above the percentage of skilled workers in these activities. As we have seen, men are to a greater extent than women in the direction, in the production of food, in the construction, in public works and in transport. And women are more than men in education, in the care of children, older and sick, in administrative and secretarial jobs, dependents, salesmen, and in cleaning up inside and outside the homes. Wage inequality between women and men stems from inequality of pay that has masculine occupations and feminized occupations and economic activity in which they develop. If we look at the wage tables of the various conventions, we'll find in them the expression of this inequality. If the challenge in the last century was to achieve women's incorporation into the labour market, in the first half of it must achieve parity in jobs, their non-similation based on sex. Equality needs quota policies, since, when these are established, equality progresses; it is sufficient to observe the amendment of the Congress of Members or of the Galician Parliament itself. Organic Law 3/2007 of March 22, for the effective equality of women and men, sets a minimum percentage of 40% of women's presence. It is necessary to address quota determination and extend it to other areas, accompanied by awareness-raising and reorientation processes. We're listening over and over again that there are no people to work in construction and in other sectors. Have you ever thought about the People's Party, the German Government, that women could be incorporated into the different occupations of construction? Certainly not. But because of the data that we've just seen, it seems that the People's Party, rather than implementing equality measures, does the opposite, and I'll explain it in the second intervention. Let's wait to hear from the spokesperson of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u125	...—the end—which reports in detail that employment measures have started and how many women have benefited and have been benefited from it. Nothing else in my first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u126	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u127	Thank you, President. Today, March 8, we celebrated one hundred and eleven years of celebration on March 8, since communist Clara Zetkin had managed to have this date declared herself International Women's Day; one hundred and eleven years of struggle, claim, progress and retreat. So that we can enjoy a life worthy of equality for workers of any age, including the young women in Greece who have to continue to emigrate because of the economic situation in the country. By claiming that women should not be the first to suffer, as at present, the charities of life, of light, of food, of fuels; that we should not be the first to suffer the deterioration of public services; or that the combined policies of the Spanish Government and the Greek do not place us in line with wages or pensions. Indeed, March 8 is a very good date to analyze the working situation of the Greek women. It's a good time for us to evaluate what the situation is. In recent years, women have been massively out on the streets on March 8th, in a genuine cry against the situation of inequality, demanding measures. But we see that time and this cry and this theoretical commitment to meet the demands that we make women do not become real, they don't give away from the role of reality. We have to recognize that there is progress in legislative matters, but we want to move from right to right in paper to equal rights in life and in reality, because at this moment we have rights in paper but we have very unequal realities and lives in women and men. There's no doubt in the working situation: we're not much less equal. By analyzing the labor data in Galicia, they completely skip all the alarms, because inequalities are not only maintained, but in many cases they are increasing their content. In Galicia, a woman still earns an average of 4,167 euros less than a man, and if that difference isn't greater, it's not because it has improved the working situation of women but because it's made men worse; that's also a sad reality. We can talk about other issues. Women focus on less-income schemes, 45.7% of women don't even charge the minimum inter-professional wage. We're mostly at the lowest levels of income, and when we go to the highest levels -- for example, those that are quantified as higher, which is ten times the minimum interprofessional wage -- there, we don't even get to 18%; with which we don't only have lower wages, but inversely proportional, we're going to decrease as the income rises and we're going to increase in the lowest tranches. And what's the next drama? The drama is that we charge less wages, and the drama is that when the retirement age comes we also have much lower pensions; we charge 34.5% less than men; EUR 376.5 less per month charges a retired Greek relative to a Greek man, a genuine disincentive. And why is this happening? Well, because of the job situation of times and much lower contribution bases, because we have a working life that looks like a lot like Guadiana, we've given up working life continuously to devote ourselves to care. For example, the household structure survey — the last published — states that 87% of persons inactive by child care or dependents in Galicia are women, that 77% of workers with reduced daily work by care of minors are women, that 91.6% of those who take care of children or children are women, that 71% of those who reduce or suppress work paid by care of dependents are women, or that 56% of those who use hourly flexibility to reconcile are women. Of course, what does it mean?, low wages -- so we're at the lowest level of wages -- and then really low pensions, which makes the vast majority of women have a much higher poverty situation than men, and much more than the average of the Spanish state -- that is, it's a perfect storm situation. But we can talk about more data. We can talk about all the indicators being worse in women. We can talk about the occupancy rate; we are most of the population but we represent only 47% of the occupied population. We can actually talk about timing, where we have a level of time above men — 26.8% we represent — with a very short duration of contracts in the last quantified year, in 2021; 94.8% of the temporary contracts signed have signed women and are short-term contracts, 30% less than one week and 43% less than one month. We can talk about that, of the people who charge at Risk in Galicia, 60% are women; that means what the economic situation of women is. Or we can talk, as I said before, about part-time work, where, as it was said, we are the women who welcome such contracts. So, lower occupancy rate, higher unemployment rates, higher temporality, higher number of jobs per part-day, low contract duration. If, in general, the working-class situation in Galicia is bad, in the case of women is even worse. That's why we tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal tabled by the Socialist Party, by which we demand, firstly, to have data. We want to put white on black and know what really is the data about the working situation of women in Galicia. Now, I suppose a member of the People's Party will say that these are the worlds of Yupi, that the situation in Galicia is magnificent, that we're better than I don't know who, that we get off the map practically. They say that, but then they never get away with having official data from agencies telling us what the situation is. So what we're asking for is to develop, in collaboration with the Economic and Social Council, the Galego Council for Labour Relations and Universities, a study of what the real situation of women in Galicia is, so that soon it's not a data war, but to have the reality, because if they don't have the data, it's not going to be about reality, but we're going to make press headlines, as the People's Party does. Or submit to Parliament a report on the situation of equal work in the field of Galician Union. Or we also called for an agreement, approved three years ago here at BNG, in 2019, on equality clauses in the recruitment of Galician Union with companies, because there was an agreement unanimously but we never knew how these equality clauses are being applied, which are so important in setting an example, or how public money is being spent. Or to guarantee compliance with the labour equality legislation, because it's very good -- and I said it before -- that we have a law that advances in law, but, if then those rights don't happen to reality, it's useless. And then we also urge the Spanish Government to increase labour inspectorates, increase and make inspections. Because it's not worth anything — I insist — there's a law if your compliance is not required. The law prevents wage differences for the same job, but then we know there are wage differences hidden, with pluses or with different professional categories doing the same job. We want there to be inspections so that all this unfolds. What we demand is also the derogation from both labour reforms in 2010 and 2012, because things happen because there are laws that protect them. I used to say Mrs. Rodríguez, in the previous non-law proposition, that we must be respectful of history, and I say that, indeed, everyone has to account for and endure their history. The Socialist Party introduced the elections by saying in its electoral programme that it was going to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, because it was tremendously harmful and tremendously harmful to the interests of the working class in general, but women in particular; an authentic army of poor and precarious women. But then, even though the numbers were able to make that derogation, they chose, together with Podemos, to pray to the dictates of capital and power. And it turns out that when the right hand has power, it doesn't agree with the working class, it doesn't ask permission from the working class to put in place tremendously damaging work reforms for the whole working class, with the consequences that we've just seen. But it turns out that the most progressive government in the history of humanity is coming up and has to ask permission from the employer to derogate the reform of work, and since the employer does not give him permission, it turns out that he does not. So at the BNG we keep insisting that we have to comply with the working class and that we have to implement measures that really allow us to have decent working conditions, obviously starting with women, that we are the ones who suffer the most precariousness and the worst conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mrs Sanz Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u129	Good afternoon, ladies. Let me begin my speech today, March 8, International Women's Day, with the motto chosen by the UN to celebrate this date, which I'm sure will pick up the feeling of many of us: "Gender equality today for a sustainable morning." Ladies and gentlemen, inequality between men and women is one of the most acute forms of discrimination in today's society, so gender equality must be a priority for action in social change that the world is experiencing. Gender equality can be approached from various angles, as we are seeing throughout today in the contents of the various initiatives under discussion. Now it's about talking about equality between men and women in employment. Personally, I believe that this perspective — achieving gender equality in the labour market — is essential in the pursuit of effective and real equality between men and women in society as a whole. It is true that women face additional obstacles in the labour market that, in general, men do not suffer: more difficulties in access, more precariousness, wage gaps or less opportunities for access to vocational promotion. But we're not just diagnosing the problem, we're working on finding solutions. With the aim of eliminating these eves, and being aware that much remains to be done, there are many initiatives launched in recent times by the German Government in order to achieve equal work, the most significant being the link in the same employment and equality council. Galicia is once again a pioneer; no autonomous community so far organized its administrative structure, and this responds to a very easy premise to formulate: without employment there will be no equality. With regard to the initiative before us, at the first point of its proposal, the Socialist Group in Galicia calls for equal employment measures to be replanted during the Bipartite. With respect, I have to tell you that you haven't assumed that you've lost the election, because it doesn't make sense that you're being asked back at the time of the Bipartite and that you've been applying policies for sixteen years. These are policies that have evidently expired, which obey a reality that no longer exists, and which, moreover — not to be forgotten — have already been judged by the Greeks and the Greeks, who have sent them to the opposition and have given the People's Party the responsibility to rule, not one, but four consecutive times. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I suspect they'll make that proposal because you're obsessed with capitalizing and appropriating all equality policies, when reality shows that we've been working on this subject for a long time since the People's Party. In fact, thirty years ago it was a Government of the People's Party who made the first Autonomic Plan against Gender Violence, and it was also a People's Government who approved — in 2004 — Galicia's first Equality Law. We were pioneers in appointing women in positions of the highest political responsibility, until that moment occupied only by men. We can be proud because we have appointed the first woman president of Congress, the first woman president of the Senate, the first woman president elected to an autonomous community, the first Spanish woman vice president of the European Union, or the current president of the European Union, who is the first woman to hold this position. They also propose, at the second point, the establishment of an observatory to follow up on equal employment measures. Look, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of citizens, we have an obligation to make effective use of public resources and we cannot be creating entities, chiringuits or observatories with public funds, without control and without necessity, when there are currently several bodies or instruments for that purpose. It would be particularly noteworthy, and since we are talking about employment, that within the organization chart of the Galician Union there already exists a specific body, which is the Administrative Unit of Equality, dependent on the Directorate-General for Labour Relations. This equality unit, in collaboration with the General Secretariat of Equality, integrates the gender dimension into the area of skills in the employment of the Government of Greece and is responsible for its control and supervision. The activity carried out by both departments complements other bodies, such as the Galego Council of Women, the Interdepartmental Equality Commission or the Employment Observatory service, which continuously analyzes official statistical data on the labour situation in Galicia, data which, let us not forget, take account of the gender perspective. For these reasons, from this parliamentary group we believe that there is no need to spend public resources on the creation of a new observatory whose objective can be fully achieved with the current structure. Ladies and gentlemen, equality is shown with facts and data, and data tells us that today's situation is better than we had at the time when you want to bring us back. The data are better because the policies and measures taken over this time of popular government have been more effective. According to a report on the gender equality index of autonomous communities published by the Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences, Galicia is the autonomous community with less inequality between men and women in the labour market, the smallest of all Spain, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta. Regarding the pay gap — and being aware that much remains to be done — Galicia stands at 19.25 % below the national average, while in 2008 — the year in which you want to recover — was 25%. Is that what you want? Are you really asking us to go back to an era with a bigger wage gap between women and men? Or, if what we analyze is the female unemployment rate, 2009 ended with a 14% unemployment rate, while 2021 ended with 12.2%. Do you intend to convince us that it is wrong to lower the female unemployment rate? Because that's what's happened over the course of this time, these years of popular government. Or if we analyze the female occupancy rate. The year 2009 ended with 41.1%, while 2021 ended with 42.3%, that is, it improved during this period. They even dare to use a frankly surprising argument, when they mention in their explanatory statement that there were fewer women in ERTE than they would correspond to their weight in affiliation. With that data, what do you mean? What's good for women to be in ERTE? Because I don't understand. Maybe what they're doing is praising the work of the German Government on their female employment policies. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, you speak of the measures for equality of sixteen years. Instead, I'm going to talk to you about the measures for equal work between men and women in which the German Government currently works in 2022. I'm starting with the latest. If you've been careful, you'll know that in the past Council of the Union, it's announced that the Council of Galicia is pushing for a new Law on Equality between Men and Women. This law will have as one of the main axes the subject we are discussing today: raising the law to the rank of law the policies that enable us to continue to move forward in equal work between men and women and in commitment to quality female employment. The new legislation will try to eradicate phenomena such as the crystal roof and introduce the idea of working well-being in companies, and will also include a status of rural women and the sea, which will defend the commitment to meet their needs in the public employment policies of the Galician Union. In this review of the many measures that the Union is taking on in the field of equal work, I must begin by talking about the Women's Employment Plan. Women, especially vulnerable women, benefit with greater intensity from the support granted to the Galician Union, but, in addition, this year, they are made available to them 34.3 million euros in eight specific programmes in the said plan, a plan containing comprehensive support for access, maintenance, consolidation or professional promotion of women in Galicia through the following programmes: digital capacity improvement programme for women living in rural areas; female leadership advocacy programme Women are executive; integrated employment programs exclusively for women; training units in enterprises with female underrepresentation, financing 100% of training; Galicia Employment programme, with a specific line for women; Women's Budget 22; women's generational program, to encourage companies to hire women to replace people who retire from them; and finally, the Emega programme, support for women's self-employment, which will count this year with the highest budget of their history; women's enterprise is being recruited from a consolidated programme that allows for five years. In the same way, I would like to highlight in particular the support of the Council of Galicia in the area of conciliation, with the aim of minimizing women's difficulties in maintaining themselves or returning to the labour market; the Greek Government will devote sixteen million euros to this purpose. And measures like time banks, teleworking, hourly flexibility and reconciliation, both for women and for self-employed people as well. On the other hand, there are measures in the field of training — accessible, flexible and up-to-date training in the field of labour equality. Last year a web portal and a virtual training campus on equal work were launched, and Galicia — once again — was a pioneer in providing training on equal work digitally. And I should also point out that in all the training for employment that the Galician Union offers, whether it's a matter of matter, if it's a cross-sectional module on equal opportunities between women and men and on family and domestic co-responsibility. Finally, if there is a government that works, promotes, listens and succeeds in promoting initiatives in the field of equality in the labour market, this is the Government of Galicia, the Government of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, when the proposals on equality are reasonable, our will is always to reach agreements; as when we support the Alvarin Law or when we support the proposal to include the gender perspective in the Greek candidacy of the Next Generation Funds. But they don't ask us or expect us to go back to the past. Galicia looks at the future, a future with more and better equality, also in the workplace. Today we value the fundamental role of women in Greek society, with the present and living testimony of women who refer to their professions: in research, in sports, in music, in art, in the sea, in culture and also in employment. And since there are still glass ceilings to overcome and spaces for improvement, from this parliamentary group and from the German Government we will continue to work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sanz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u131	Thank you, President. Look, the reality is, with the People's Party, Galicia took a step back in the search for real equality between women and men in the workplace. The truth is, when the People's Party came to the government in 2009, it broke with all the equality policies put in place by the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño and took a step back. The Bipartite invested in a year EUR 190 million against corporate discrimination, EUR 190 million. He said, "The Labour Council will set aside € 190 million this year to try to make the Greeks at least equal their professional terms to those of men." "Work proposes that the Galicians be able to enter the sectors which at this point are still confined land for them." He says, "The Board estimates in forty-seven the measures included in the Aurora programme," which I told them earlier. Specific measures that applied: "Inspection: Six hundred companies with high female employment rates will be inspected to pursue recruitment fraud, sexist discrimination in wages and inequalities in professional promotion between workers and workers." You also help with fixed contracts: "Companies will receive EUR 7,500 for each indefinite contract that is made to unemployed over 45 years of age, or that they have never worked, or that they have left the labour market for at least two years, or that they come from firms in crisis or that they are single mothers." Women also in men's sectors: "Metal, construction, transport, wood, logistics or security entrepreneurs will receive EUR 7,500 for every woman who hires indefinitely." Reconciliation with personal life: "Work will subsidise the companies that give them jobs" -- "values redundancy -- "women who return to the labour market after being mothers or who hire substitutes for employees who take a surplus or a reduction in a day's work to care for their families." Or in collective bargaining: "The Union will try to introduce equality measures into seven hundred conventions. The measures of the plan will benefit one hundred and fifty thousand out of the four hundred and sixty-three thousand workers in Wales." That's why you didn't talk about budget, you talked about the existence of an administrative unit of equality, but to do this initiative we can't go to that observatory soon because this data is not studied, and you know it. If we look at what happened, it's that the first change that the PP made when he arrived appears hidden, and for me it's clearly illegal. In the resolution of 11 February 2011, of the Directorate-General for Employment Promotion, the priorities set out in the order of 30 December, of convening — which is a resolution of a higher level — are amended, and in Article 13(4), it says: "Women, especially those who believe in the status of victims of violence, will have priority...". The above-mentioned resolution first sets out long-term unemployed persons, according to those under 30 years of age, thirdly women appear, eliminating the priority of victims of violence, since it does not mention them. Also, the recruitment program for women victims of gender-based violence with the Bipartite was a contract that was analyzed for a whole year without a budget limit, which you are not doing, much less. In October 2007, sixty courses were already under way, aimed at incorporating women into occupations in which they were underrepresented. Since the People's Party came to the government, it has not continued to seek masculine occupations and to form women for their incorporation, in fact the data we are analyzing today; nor has it continued to offer the formative modules that were missing to make the women participating in the Women's program because of it. In order to reduce the gender gap, measures, strict procedures must first be laid down, which are the non-parity occupations and which economic activities. The second area is active employment policies, training and professional certificates. It is necessary to establish a number of specific programmes for the massive incorporation of women, with specific funds and programmes. Another line of action should be the incorporation of women in those aged areas where the crisis has left present workers unreplaceable, such as construction and metal. Specific alternative training plans are needed to incorporate women into all their occupations. As long as parity doesn't reach the labour market, real equality between women and men will not be possible, starting from a wage equalization. And for making the catalogue of non-parity occupations, feminized and mature occupations, how can they be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u133	...... yes, finished—the textile or the fabrication, or in which the replacement is difficult, we believe that there must be this observatory of equality. As for the job reform, already in my previous intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u134	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u135	... concerning the Block I mentioned my opinion, the opinion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u136	Excuse me, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, regarding the amendment, I was not clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u137	Okay, thanks. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in Junta de Galicia to create an observatory of gender equality in the fisheries sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u138	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u139	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We're going to follow the line in which my partner was intervening, and we're also asking, through this initiative, to obtain objective data so that we can make decisions and of course be able to implement policies later on based on these objective data. The initiative brought by the Socialist Parliamentary Group today to debate is not an initiative of this parliamentary group. It is an initiative that was presented to the three parliamentary groups representing this chamber, it is an initiative of the Association Mulleres Salgadas, the only partnership in the area of Greek women in fishing, an association that was created in 2016 — it is true that the territorial area was smaller and narrowed to Arousa, but that in 2021 it expanded that area. Of course, giving all the recognition and thanks of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group to those brave women who do this hard work for women's rights in the world of the sea and also that recognition, which I want to extend to all the women who work in the Greek fishing sector. [[Applause]] As I said, this is not a PSdEG initiative. It is an initiative of the Salgadas Women's Association, which seeks to create, by the Galician Council, with the necessary budgetary contribution, the equality observatory for the Greek fisheries sector, made up of technical staff who study, analyse and establish diagnoses and corrective measures that contribute to improving the situation of Galicians working at sea or in related activities, paying attention to the low representation of women in positions of leadership and representation. So it's an acknowledgement to those women who have accomplished and have certainly played a fundamental role in our society for many years now, both from a professional and a personal point of view. And why are initiatives of this silence necessary? Because traditionally — and those we are fortunate enough to have raised alongside the sea in coastal populations — we saw how the woman performed on those docks, rivers or beaches activities that complemented the men. The men went out fishing on their boats, and the women worked mainly in rowing or shellfishing. And then it was understood that the role developed by these women was a second-rate job, a profession complementary to the family income that brought the man home — mostly sailors — and this in the best of cases. And I'm saying that because, on many occasions, these women were doing jobs without any economic reversal. It is true that women are currently present in all segments of the fisheries value chain, being majority in many of the activities we know on foot, the auxiliary industry, the processing industry or the retail trade industry, of which we have also spoken in this plenary and also in the Committee on Fisheries itself. It's said that women account for 85% in the shellfish, 85% in the ditches, 70% in the processing companies and the canteens, 68% in the marketing of fish and seafood... but they're approximate data, because we don't know the actual situation of women in the sector, because there's no differentiated and disaggregated data by men and women. We therefore understand that this initiative is more successful today than ever before. That is why studies are needed on this, and, moreover, in Galicia is fundamental, since we cannot lose sight that Galicia is the autonomous community of Spain where we have the greatest weight and importance in fishing and aquaculture. But even though women in Galicia are present today throughout the entire chain of value of fishing and aquaculture and, in many of their occupations, they are the main livelihood of many families, we continue to have lots of pending subjects so that they can achieve this so-called real equality between men and women. And one example and one of these pending subjects in the sector is the scarce representation in the policy decision-making bodies in the sector that directly affect women here. Here, in Galicia, we see this scarce representation of women in management positions or representation of confrries and fishing organizations. The women of aquaculture and Greek fishing don't want to remain silent and that's what they're moving us; they want to be heard directly in those forums, in those meetings, in those organs, where they talk about their work and where they make decisions that directly affect their work and also their future. These women do not want to be represented in those organs by any companion; they want — I repeat — to be heard directly. Because, as much as in recent years there has been an increase in female presence in the fisheries sector, this does not translate or reflect in the areas of directives. Just — and we know it in our autonomous community — access the bodies of representation, direction and organization of the fisheries sector: only five larger bosses of the sixty-three major patterns of the Greek points. And this is certainly fruit, in part, of the invisibility that women's work has suffered for many years in fishing. It is therefore urgent and necessary for administrations to implement measures to gain the effective participation of women in decision-making bodies and processes. There are many steps left to be taken to ensure that there is an equitable participation of men and women in power and decision-making structures and that, therefore, one can speak of that real and effective equality in the sector. But in addition to this lack of visibility for women in fishing and low representation in decision-making bodies, there is a need for measures to address those historical problems that affect and concern women in the sector, such as the improvements in their working and living conditions. We were talking before the pay gap, here also in the fishing sector, or about problems with professional classification on the basis of sex, or improvement in conciliation or an optimization of health conditions, hygiene and safety; also on the subject of occupational diseases; also the reduction coefficients at retirement age; the failure of generational remittance, which we already know affects men as well, but also has a marked gender bias; there is a particular component of gender in this failure of generational remittance. So it's a lot of the challenges that are still alive and a lot of what we have to work on together. It is true that these are broad competences which involve the different administrations and, for that reason, there needs to be an increase in dialogue and coordination between administrations, but of course in coordination with the sector itself and social agents. So it is necessary and we have also seen it in the result of the evaluation of the Plan for Gender Equality in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector of the Ministry itself, in this evaluation of the 2015-2020 Plan, in the surveys conducted among the administrations, which have certainly little participated in these surveys sent to them from the ministry itself, social entities also participated and women's fisheries associations. And what they say is that it is difficult to establish the global representation, in quantitative terms, of women in the whole fisheries and aquaculture sector, because to offer a general percentage of female employment in the sector it is necessary to work with aggregate information, from different statistical sources and annualities, resulting in an approximation. Therefore, what is not measured cannot be corrected. Basically, what you're asking for with the creation of this observatory is that you can have these objective data that will allow you to correct these situations, because we see how there is also a strong segmentation of work based on sex in the sector; we also see how they have many more problems, such as the theme of intrusism and the submerged economy. So it is necessary to count on this data and it is urgent that, on the part of the Greek Government, if you create this observatory to have this objective data and be able to take measures that correct all these evas and all those deficiencies, because there is a lot of way to go. There are still sectoral areas in which the concept of feminism remains unclear, which often continues to be confused with femaleism, understood as an extreme contrast to machismo and not as a doctrine and social movement that pursues the equality of both sexes and their equalization in rights and obligations. And this is not a phrase from the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u142	...—end, President—is a phrase that is also collected in this assessment of the 2015-2020 Fisheries Equality Plan. This is therefore an initiative which is part of the Salgadas Women, which has been exposed to the three parliamentary groups and which I believe should achieve the unanimity of this chamber. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u143	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I greet the representatives of the Salgadas Women — I didn't know they were in the rostrum — which I see from here. I want to say that we, as has been shown so far, since the People's Party in Galicia, have taken very important steps towards equality. Today, we tabled an amendment to be able to reach an agreement, on this very late day, so that no rural women would be discriminated against or excluded from the future of the sea and the agri-environment; that they would not be professionally excluded from the sea or the agro in decision-making bodies, that this is the final end and the objective that also pursues the association. We, on this day — as I say — do not want to forget the women who are professionally devoted to this area, more and more, but few, in a sector — I insist — very masculinized. So far, important steps have been taken, but never enough — we have said all the speakers — and in political terms we demonstrate things with facts and, Mrs Otero, with consistency, and certainly the commitment of the proposed party — the PSdeG — is not an example of aid to the women of the sea when they have the opportunity to manage the Council of Galicia. Of course you can change, but without opportunism and demonstrating, and Parliament is a good place to report. And they are important, very important, and diagnostics, but also facts. To give some examples, Mrs. Otero, who was Fisheries Counsellor, Carmen Gallego, while he was Secretary General of Agamar, defended that he did not pay attention and urged many sailors not to do so; then they looked at the texture, rather hard, that they did not contribute and could not charge. That was a management of the Socialist Party. He intended that if social security quotas were to be reduced for hours or days, and with that model of contribution, it would be impossible to reach the minimum fifteen years for the pension. They are political decisions of government. The National Institute of Statistics, also in Zapatero's PSOE times, wanted to redefine the National Catalogue of Occupations which did not collect Marisqueum as a qualified profession; I wanted to collect it as unqualified, the instances of the ISM—you know it well—and this meant losing in the long term the obligation to pay at lower rates and, consequently, with lower pensions. PSOE and BNG did not cooperate in defending a recognition of shellfish, especially that developed by women, when this issue was spoken and determined in the European Union within the common fisheries policy. We're all alone. The time has passed and another great contribution of the Socialist Party to the most feminized sector was to raise social security quotas in 2019. Therefore, the facts do matter and, often, you, Mrs. Otero, who speak and who frame the flag of equality, in order to rule, remember many important things to achieve true equality and not just words. The People's Party's Union has never supported those measures of which I have just spoken, and indeed it has been taking steps and contributing to the professional recognition of the Marishers now, so that they have a decent pension, and always working on the side of the women of the sea. A non-permanent study committee on equality and women's rights has been held in this parliament a short time ago. And one of the requests was on that line, which I see is going on in this PNL. I also see a certain opportunism, Mrs Otero, because it is true that we meet the three political groups, but you insist that it is not an initiative of the Socialist Party, but it is an initiative of the Socialist Party. Here are the channels the Galician Parliament has to have. This is a Socialist Party initiative. It is true that the association spoke to all of us, but by presenting this initiative we did not have any idea that I was going to present it. We therefore believe that not only on this subject, but also on issues from the Commission that you, at times, have become a certain set of ideas, because the requests in which we must put together elements, in which we must debate and dictate, and then put them on the table, you are reproducing them into the PNL that I am from the Socialist Party, you must recognize it. And we have no problem in achieving unanimity, in reaching agreements, in amending and doing transactions to really work for equality and work for equity, and in addition to the decision-making bodies — which you said right here — of the women of the sea in certain areas. In this case — as I say — they refer to the request by Salgadas Women of Galicia, which is an association that, as you said, has become the first and only association of the German autonomics in the fishing sector, but which with its work transcends at the national level. And it's also very admirable for your work and your push, because I know it's not easy; and it's more than a thousand and sixty women who are now in that association. It stands to reason that there is a need in the fisheries sector to recognize and value female work at sea, but it is really important that we determine what measures are and what decisions the Galician Union has to make in order to achieve that equality from all administrations. Last week — as I say — we held a meeting with them by some of the People's Party Members of Galicia and put many goals and themes in common. One of them, indeed, was the creation of this sector equality observatory, a tool more than will undoubtedly help; a tool that seems to us a very good idea, because it is fundamental — I insist — already at the level of all Spain to recognize and know what the real situation of women in fishing is. Earlier, in May, this association had already proposed to the Council of the Sea and the General Secretariat of Equality of Galicia the creation of the said organism. A very good idea — as I say — that it is necessary to channel and to make sure that it does not become an empty organism or without budget. And so, once the initiative was presented, from the group we looked at the context and the situation very well. In fact, Salgadas Women, with much consistency, says: "We consider that the specific weight and characteristics of fish and aquaculture activities in our community need an observatory consisting of technical personnel to study, analyse and establish diagnoses and corrective measures that contribute to improving the status of Galicians working at sea or related activities, paying particular attention to the poor presence of women in positions of leadership and representation." And we agree, but, as I said, we amend with nuances to also give visibility and importance to the women of the field, and so that what we approve here is a reality and does not remain wet paper. Because it is clear that all groups support those goals — the ones I have just read — and that the women of the sea are looking for. From the People's Parliamentary Group and from the People's Union itself, we have made use of today's important request, linked to the status of rural women and the sea, which will form part of the new Law on Self-Government, and we insist on including a commission that promotes the balanced composition of women and men in the management and management bodies of professional organizations that develop their activities in agricultural and maritime fisheries. And this is more important, today, to achieve the objective than the observatory itself. At the request of this observatory, we want to be rigorous, and that is why we have to analyse it in a context with the different interferences between the administrations, and we have done a task to go to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Spanish Government and find on the web the following objective: "The planning and management of policies for integration and equality in the fisheries sector is an express competition and a priority objective of the General Fisheries Secretariat of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food" — something that seems to us very well appropriate from the ministry so that these functions can be achieved—and in addition to the Spanish Network of Women in the Fisheries Sector, with the aim of the "visibility and value of women's work in fisheries and aquaculture, promoting communication, the exchange of initiatives, the best practices among professionals working in this field, in any of their different areas, with promotion, entrepreneurship, empowerment and leadership". Therefore, at present, the Government of Spain has in force this Plan for Gender Equality in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector, a document that the secretariat has prepared to serve as guidance and what we refer to in order to combat inequality between men and women in the field of fisheries and aquaculture and that it is appropriate to put in place at national level and to give it impetus and to be seen here, and to combine it — because we in Galicia have other tools — with the powerful and important Strategic Plan of Galicia for Equality, which, of course, also affects women in the sea and in agriculture. So, I think you can achieve real equality and you can make it from here, from Galicia, that control. It is true that it is important for the observatory to be present and that we believe that it could be within that plan, but it is fundamental, first, to achieve or establish where that objective has to be and to draw upon it — as I said — in the Equality Law that will be in force in the near future. I would like to remind you, again, that the People's Party — because we have heard different interventions throughout today, as I say, in which you build up the role of feminism — was key in the processes of professionalization of red tapes and seafood workers so they could have decent incomes and a pension. And we don't forget them, but without how many sirens. We are currently proposing the role of the observatory in the Galician Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women, as well as the commission in the law — I insist — which is the text of the amendment, which is essential to achieve real equality between men and women in the field and in the sea. But — I insist — we have to optimize public resources and respond to the needs and demands of all the women of Greece, in this case those of the sea, which will always have us next to them for policies that improve their quality of life and thus match them in the work ladder. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. In fact, the proposal presented today by the Socialist Party comes from hand—Mr.Egeriche, presents the Socialist Party—and arrived to the three groups by the first and only autonomous organization composed exclusively by women in the fishing sector, Salgadas Women, whom we also welcome and thank since the Galician Nationalist Block, in addition to its dual and triple day—as we have many women—they still have time and desire and made the effort to organize themselves to effectively claim and achieve the rights that we still do not have, as much as the People's Party tells us. [[Applause]] I'm saying this was a proposal that came to the three political groups of this chamber, but that only found a response in two of them. And today in Mrs Sanz's previous speech, she has made it clear to us that only two groups have responded to that claim and to Mrs Salgadas' request. Mrs Sanz said earlier — speaking precisely of the observatory for employment — that the Galician Union is not about investing money in "chiringuits" — she said so with that literality. And we think, first, that for Junta they are chiringuitos — however much that Mrs. Egerique now wants to disguise the subject — and secondly, that the Board is not about investing money in chiringuitos, but the Board prefers to dedicate money, hundreds of millions of euros, to its propaganda and boom in the media of all kinds saying that they are the most egalitarian in the world. [[Applause]] Actually, it came to the three groups, but not just that. In the Committee on Equality, at the sitting in this parliament itself in the middle of February last month, the three groups, after the presence precisely of the association of red tape women The Pierao and Anmupesca, and at which also Fademur appeared, in that appearance — as I say, in mid-February — the three groups, the three groups of this chamber, committed ourselves precisely to that request which they made, in particular, the associations that came in representation of the sea sector — which was no other — there was more, but one of the main things was precisely the implementation of that observatory — to give it viability in this chamber and to make it precisely a real fact. [[Federation of Associations of Rural Women]] Ah! but, in turning it into a real fact, it's when the People's Party marches back. Totally, engaging in a word show doesn't mean anything. First of all, let's get engaged, and then we're doing what we want, which is what we just saw here, that is, nothing, absolutely nothing. And I'm going to say why nothing is done at all. I'm going to put two examples. Mrs. Egerich called her facts and called them real facts. Well, let's go to the real facts. We have, on the one hand, the Legislative Decree 2/2015 — from here, Galicia, of course — and the recast text of the legal provisions of the Autonomous Community on equality is approved. The first thing to draw our attention to this legislative text of the year 2015 — the People's Party, of course — was that it refers to a chapter on women's participation in rural development. We have absolutely nothing against it, but on the contrary, we are very much in favour; now, from the sea sector, that legislative decree does not speak. You mean or we have to understand that, if you don't talk about the legislative decree, which is the law, which is the DOG, the women of the sea sector, of course, don't exist for the People's Party, even though they exist in reality. Secondly, this same legislative decree, in its article 29, states, textually, that the Board will promote — the decree is of the year, as I say, 2015, published at the beginning of 2016—, textually, "the review and improvement of the list of professional qualifications, incorporating the gender perspective, with the aim of including as feminist activities carried out without remuneration or professional recognition. And in Article 29.2 it says that the Labour Council will develop actions aimed at detecting and eradicating submerged and irregular economic situations in feminized activities. And it takes that same legislative decree as feminized activities, I repeat, as feminized activities carried out without remuneration and without professional recognition, a minimum list — which appears there, in the actual decree — a minimum list of ten activities. It turns out that of those ten who set up the Dog itself as unprofessional activities, without remuneration and without recognition, four are from the world of the sea. Textually, I read: "First, rears; second, repairers of vessels and bass fishing gear; third, growers of marish in bata; fourth, unregulated sellers of sea products". These are strictly from the sea, but it still adds another -- that is, five out of ten sea-related -- because it talks about the business sector of self-employed people working on a family support scheme. And obviously there are many autonomous companies in the sea -- they're mostly, by the way -- and there's a lot of people in the family support scheme, in their vast majority of women. Well, I was saying in an intervention before my comrade Noa Presas that the biggest machismo is what is not measured. And actually I want to emphasize it. And now I'm going with the second example, which Mrs. Egerique says they don't want chiringuitos, nor invest in chiringuitos, that they prefer to do things. Well, among other things, we'll see another. It turns out, Mrs Egerique, that from this very important and famous Strategic Plan of Galicia for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men 2017-2020 that you have developed now says that the role of the observatory has to be framed within a new strategic plan that will still be developed, because the current plan has already ended in 2020 but we are still in 2022 and have not had time to evaluate the previous one or start doing the following. You say the observatory has to go into that strategic plan. Let's talk about the strategic plan, what's in place. First of all, when accounting for the sexes, the sea workers included them on a list together with — you're talking, in this case, about skilled workers — workers working in forest, fishing and cinematic activities — that is, the sea is nothing but nothing. Then, when he speaks of pawns, he encapsulates the working people of the sea on another list different from agricultural, forestry and fishing pawns. That is to say, in that strategic plan that just ended in 2020 fishing itself does not seem at all nothing. And now you want to refer the observatory to the new strategic plan. And that same strategic plan, in one of its objectives, collects textually: "Supporting the empowerment of rural women and their incorporation into the decision-making structures of the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors." So you look, please — and this is done, as Mrs. Egerique says — as women's empowerment is actually supported directly in the area of self-government: First, the Galician Fisheries Council has fifty-four members in total. Well, including Mrs. Fisheries Advisor, there are nine women. That's empowerment! [[Applause]] Secondly, two twelve-member women — for example — on the Galaga Federation's Executive Committee for Fragrances, and none on the president's or vice-president's positions first and second. Third, five major bosses and sixteen vice-sponsors of a total of sixty-three confrries; that is, twenty-one women, against one hundred sixty-eight men. That is the strategic plan that has promoted the empowerment of women in the sea sector in all these years and where Mrs Egerique wants to send us the observatory now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u148	It's over, Mr. President. Today, everyone — people who are involved in investigating the different aspects of work, health, etc., in the sea sector, people who work in that field and associationism — coincides with the fact that there is a lack of data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u150	That strategic plan does not provide them — Mr President, and therefore the indispensable tool today to provide them is that observatory to which it has been called "chiringuit"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u152	...and you want to refer to a strategic plan that said this until 2020. And obviously we can't go through there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u153	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u154	So we're going to support the Socialist Party's proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u156	...the proposal of Salgadas Women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u157	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u158	I want to thank the support of the Galego Nationalist Block for this initiative, which is not the PSdEG, which is an initiative of Salgadas Women. The truth is, I was quite constructive on my first shift. I haven't been putting firewood there, and I haven't been saying bad things about Galician Union. I have been demanding even the involvement of all public administrations with competence in this area. I was the one who took out the theme of reducing coefficients or occupational diseases — that we all know they are the competence of the central government — irrespective of whether at the end of 2018 and also at the end of 2019 certain occupational diseases have been recognized by those who have been fighting for a lot of time. But I didn't put on any medals, Mrs. Egerique. I haven't made political opportunism. The only thing I did was give a voice to the Salgadas Women's Association and bring here this initiative, which could bring the People's Party quietly because in these conversations the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group, the women of the People's Parliamentary Group, see with very good eyes this initiative to create this equality observatory in the Welsh fishing sector. But we got along with whoever's boss, we got along with the sea councillor, and he said no and that we had to stop this. Because I was introduced in May 2021, and if they wanted to, they would have done things. Mrs Egerique, today you are bringing an amendment to this initiative by Salgadas Women in which they come to speak of the Rural Women's Statute, saying that this status of rural women is now more important than to implement this equality observatory in the fisheries sector. And I would like to remind you that this proposal of this status of rural women was a proposal of this Socialist Parliamentary Group in the debate on the state of autonomy. It is true, it is a proposal which is part of Fademur but which has collected this Socialist Parliamentary Group. And they've done nothing since that. Of course, what have they done since then to approve this status of the rural woman and now to join the sea? They didn't do anything at all! So tell us now that we are going to delay or postpone this observatory in fisheries until this status of rural women is approved, actually, as we are going to believe in the rhythm that is giving it to the approval of this status of rural women and the sea! What we bring today through this non-law proposition we make -- if it seems better, we do it ourselves, you said before it was a PSdEG initiative, but it's actually from the women of the Greek fishing sector represented by Salgadas Women -- is the creation of a scientific and technical body that studies and diagnoses. We don't want statements of intent, which is what you bring here today with this amendment. The sea has its own entity in our autonomous community and has a specific weight enough to be able to count on this gay gender equality observatory in the fishing sector. In addition, this initiative, which does not refer only to parity — that too — refers to the study of any deviation of gender that is detected, its causes and implications, the development of real statistics disaggregated by gender and also a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the social situation of Welsh fishing. This analysis will enable and provide greater knowledge about the sector and will allow it to legislate and take action on a well-founded and more rigorous basis. I think we all agree that the work of women in the Greek fishing sector, which participates in the entire productive chain, is of fundamental importance. I also believe that we agree that it still remains invisible in many respects its work, that they still have problems with access to these positions of responsibility and representation and decision-making in the fisheries sector, and that there is a lot of work left to be done by the administrations. We therefore believe that it is essential to create this observatory. Mrs. Egerique said that the People's Party is always next to the women of the Welsh fishing sector. And I think it's time to prove it with facts, not with declarations of intent, which is what you guys did today by presenting that amendment. So be brave and ask your advisor to make a really determined bet by these women, who believe this observatory, that it is no chiringuito, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said earlier on the other initiative — which already gave us the advance of what was the intention or what they thought of the creation of this observatory. So do that gratitude to that work of so many and so many women in fishing, believe that observatory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u160	...—end, President—and they don't just stay in good words when the associations come to present their initiatives to us. They are brave and today they vote in favour of this initiative, which is not ours, is from Salgadas Women. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u161	I understand you don't accept the amendment, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u162	Logically, we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-08-DSPG072.u163	Thank you. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
