ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, questions for the president's oral answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u2	We started with the question of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in the face of the current difficult situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u3	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. Let me congratulate you on your position as President of the Galician Council. You are not the president I wanted but, of course, you are my president, and from that point of view you count on the loyalty of this parliamentary group. But I have to be clear, Mr Rueda: your investment speech has been disappointing; the three measures you announced are insufficient and are irrelevant because they will not solve the problems of this autonomous community. He made no proposal to improve the lives of the Galicians and the Greeks, in health, in economic policy, in social policy, in youth, in housing, in education, in industrial matters, in so many others. He begins his mandate with a fully-fledged political project, guarded by Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the provincial boys, with Mr. Baltar, of course, in the head. A project that rips apart, without any ambition of any kind and that inherits a despondent panorama of what you have been responsible for for 13 years of government. The latest data indicate that the billing of the Welsh industry suffered the biggest fall of the state in March, decreasing about seven percent compared to the same month of 2021, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics published last Friday. And this fall means the largest in the state in a month of generalized progress, where Galicia retreats, while the turnover of business industries rose by 13% in the whole of Spain; twenty points of difference. Similarly, while in Spain the number of staff employed in the service sector increases by 4.8, in Galicia there is only one 3.2. And as for the poverty risk rate, it has increased in Galicia by 2.9 % in the last two years, while the average of Spain has fallen to half a point. This data, Mr Rueda, shows — as many others — the course of our community. And regardless of the content that they always repeat that these are undisclosed data, they are official data. And I hope today does not imply that the data provided by both the National Institute of Statistics and the Galego Institute of Statistics are false. Yesterday we learned that Galicia is at the state queue investing in dependency by a potentially dependent person. The situation that was put out by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, which says, among other things, that the Autonomous Community of Galicia set box in the year 2021 with the increase of the state's general budgets to dependency. The People's Party model has failed in all plans, also in social policy. And, Mr. Rueda, we have just met the unfortunate episode of the residence My House, in Paz de Borbonne, which shows the perversion of that model, of which they are of more privatization less inspection. Not like that, Mr. Rueda. Please don't reply to your boss and elude the strategy of blaming others for the problems of our autonomous community, while they point out as their own successes that correspond to other governments. And there are very good demands to the Government of the State because they have to comply with Galicia, but here too in this Parliament we want to know what you will do with your powers. So, Mr. Rueda, what proposals do you have to change your course? Because two weeks ago he came to this Parliament to announce three measures which — I repeat — are insignificant for the Greeks and the Greeks because they do not solve their problems. And while asking for a meeting — which seems very good to us — to the President of the State Government, we also ask whether you will receive the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia or you will receive the mayors and mayors of the great cities of Galicia to whom their predecessor did not listen and who, in addition, many of them have already asked for interviews. Will you, Mr. Rueda, receive the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia? Will you listen to the councils? I hope so because, on the contrary, it will show permanent contempt when it comes to addressing people's problems. And it's not about refusing a visit to the mayors and mayors of the Socialist Party, but to the Greeks and the Greeks. What are you going to do, Mr. Rueda? Last week Mr. Núñez Feijóo praised, in an act in Andalusia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u6	...and said the Andalusian model was the economic model of the People's Party. And I ask you, can you support that statement in an autonomous community that has a higher unemployment rate than Galicia and a higher unemployment rate in youth? Do you really think that's the model this autonomous community needs? Tell us, Mr. Rueda, what will your style be, will you receive the opposition?, will you meet the needs of the Greek municipalities?, will you continue with the continuous schedule of cuts and defeats of Mr.Núñez Feijóo?, will you take steps to reverse the waiting lists in health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u7	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u8	...to end the perverse model of privatization of older residences, to dynamize our general employment economy, to boost innovation as an economic engine, to end demographic indentation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u10	What are you going to do, Mr Rueda — finished, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u12	...to improve the lives of our people?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u13	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, well, first of all, thank you for your institutional welcome and your congratulations as a spokesperson for the parliamentary group. And I transmit you as president of the board exactly the same to you and your group. Having said this, yes, I've already noticed over the last few days, the ten I lead as President of the Galician Council, that you have a particular concern to know if I'm going to be able to have a proper style in dealing with the problems. It's funny that of your own style, because at the same time you bring this week to this Parliament and now you are going to debate an initiative to follow together to support the measures of the Central Government, of the Government of Mr Sánchez, regarding the war in Ukraine, without any possibility of making any killing; that is, we do exactly what you say I can't do. And I'm not going to make it, I'm sure, Mr. Álvarez. So in solving problems I'm going to have my own style, I don't have any doubt, which is going to be the style of trying to solve the problems. I know that you — what you are telling me now and what you have manifested during these days, and even what you said before the investment debate — will do what the Socialist Party always does. You've been in the opposition and we in the Government and in the Union for at least 13 years, and they've always said that in front of our governments not a hundred days, not a hundred hours, not a hundred minutes. Well, that's what you're doing when this new stage just started ten days ago. I've already told you that in the style of, first, to continue the good things that have been done so far — that have been very many and of those which I feel very proud, for it was part of a government that was facing the problems — and, of course, from now on we have new challenges ahead and we will have to continue to face them, taking all the good of the previous and trying to continue — I mean — taking into account the challenges that arise from now on, which will be many. And it's no coincidence, Mr. Álvarez, that we were from the autonomous communities that we better manage the pandemic. And it's no coincidence that we'll immediately try to get out hard to take advantage of all the pushes that came out of this recovery, that you from Madrid are not putting on, and it's absolutely simple. So we got to work, we came here to Parliament, we talked to civil society, and we made that recovery plan, that 2022-2030 Strategic Plan, which has clear objectives and responds to the measures we are pushing. Of course, in the investment debate I couldn't talk about everything we're doing and we're going to do, I tried to highlight in a short format what I thought might be an example of what we're doing. What we're doing is improving and shielding public education -- let's go through there without any doubt -- improve and shielding health; improve and shielding the services of well-being and attention -- we're not leaving anyone behind, you like that as slogan, we practice it; improve and shielding attention to businesses, especially those who are now going through it, and also keep up with the entrepreneurship; improve and shielding and take advantage of the Xacobeo pull. Finally, with concrete measures. Moreover, the gratuitousness of child education, since it is the only autonomous community, and this is important for conciliation and important for the labour market — you do not give much importance — to enhance vocational training, which is fundamental in this changing labour market; to implement an ambitious, most ambitious reform of primary care, with all the difficulties it has; to see if we are able to help us solve the problem that comes from the Central Government too with regard to the recruitment of doctors; to adopt a new law of social inclusion; to continue to demand, without any doubt, those infrastructures that have not just come to Galicia from the Central Government; to continue to demand that the next generation funds — fundamental to deal with the problems we have now — are shared with objectivity, and not with the bias that we are seeing elsewhere by the Central Government. Finally, Mr. Álvarez, keep working, take all of the above and keep looking forward, which is going to be a lot of trouble. I have my hand and my government has the hand of your parliamentary group to try and do things together. Frankly, if you do branching, you're still defending the indefensible here, you're still supporting measures that are clearly hurting us, it's going to be very difficult. If you want to be that dialogueal party that you proclaim they are, you want to hold this government by hand at such a difficult time for Galicia, you'll always find them. If they're going to continue to be hostage to nationalism in many autonomous communities and here too, it's going to be very difficult. We will continue to work, you will not be a useful party for Galicia and will not serve us to solve the problems. This government will continue to work, taking all of the above, putting new measures and looking forward to a situation that is not simple but that we are going to face. Self-styled? Yes, in the style of trying to solve the problems. If it can be, with you; and if not, as of now, alone but giving results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u15	Thank you, President. [[Extensive applause.]] Replica, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, get better, get better, get better. Home!, it seems evident that this is what needs to be done in view of the negative situation in which the autonomous community is. Better is a trivial answer. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Rueda, I take no credit for you, for you have learned well from your boss and from throwing balloons out, blaming the rest of the evil management and selling as successes things that depend on other governments. And, like not, I wouldn't let you down and you wouldn't come here with the hit of your next generation fundraiser, when you know it's absolutely false. That next generation fund-sharing is made up of agreements that take place at sectoral conferences, in which you, of course, participate. And as a result of this division, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the sixth of the entire state as a percentage of next generation funds, and that is public information. I bring here a graph, which is actually a color table, because you're around saying you want the same treatment as Catalonia and Valencia. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the House a graph.]] But it turns out that the first autonomous community in Next Generation funds is Andalusia, ruled by the People's Party; the third is Madrid, ruled by the People's Party; the fourth is Castile and León, ruled by the People's Party; and the sixth is Galicia, ruled by the People's Party. So, what do you want me to say? [[Applause]] The data is the data. You don't like them? [[Applause]] I understand. [[Applause]] That you try to make a revolutionary whole and imagine that Galicia is a permanently aggravated community, too. [[Applause]] But the problem is, it's not true, and since it's not true, we have that reality that you try to mask. Look, Mr. Rueda: we have to be clear and we have to change the model. And within that loyalty and within that dialogue we have to change in health care, we have to get back the number of health professionals we had at least in 2009. In social policy, what do you want me to tell you after everything we know? It would be absolutely necessary to change the model and bet on a public system and cover that fourteen thousand square gaps in our autonomous community. By the way, see if you find any effective database manager to incorporate those nearly 10,000 Welsh and Welsh that don't appear on any computer system. In education we have to recover the number of teachers who have been lost. In research we have to design a strategy to achieve 3% investment in R & D+I using own funds to bet on the strategic sectors of the autonomous community. In wind matters we offer to join the energy pact agreed with workers, with the business sector and also with the rural world. In youth, Mr. Rueda, active employment policies must be made. What was that plan back? That return plan also supports a lot of improvements. Mr. Rueda, I'm worried that you'll become a minor president,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u18	...—Filled, Mr President-, a guarded president, a president who does not make social and economic policies. I ask you to change your course, to meet with the opposition, to pay attention to the municipalities and to work for a better Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Now — and finally, Mr President — that you have already finished this game of chairs that you have brought in for the last three months — you are all sitting and sitting — I don't know where you want or not; in any case, you sit, you work, you've been working — as I said — three months with a Government of Galician Union of fallen arms since Mrs Díaz Ayuso decided that the Autonomous Community of Galicia had to change its chair. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u19	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, improve, improve... of course, indeed, because in order to improve, concrete measures must be taken. We have been insisting, not now on the investment debate, that also with measures that will enter into force immediately, but much earlier. A concrete improvement would be to lower taxes. I've already told you these days: try to lower taxes, try that feeling; try to tell Mr. Sánchez that he can lower many taxes too. You'll see how it improves immediately, how we're going to get better here. There's a concrete measure that they could support. And they're profiled because they don't believe in that kind of measure. Just as one thing must be clear: I don't want Galicia as President of the Union the same deal, at least I'm not specifically claiming the same deal as Catalonia or Valencia; what I want is a fair deal, what I want is that they don't get involved in some communities' party interests about others, I want to compete in conditions of equality. That's what I want, and you don't understand. And as long as they don't understand it that way, we'll be gone. [[Applause]] Simply: conditions of equality. Is it hard to understand that we should have objective things? It's not true what you say at the sectoral conferences everything is divided, everything is clear; on the contrary, everything is completely confused. And the conclusion we come out with is that Mr. Sánchez is dedicated to going to Spain ahead by compromising plans that are not even convened. So, this as a German and as a Greek political leader should worry a lot about it, because that's where we play the future. And as long as you keep putting on smoke curtains, you keep making dequalifications that almost rub people towards my person, you keep talking about Isabel Díaz Ayuso. But what are you saying? When there are no concrete measures, and you're taking them from the pandemic in the central government, making a lot of propaganda and not applying any concrete measures, of course you have to go to the smoke curtains. If you had to put aside the propaganda you made and the concrete measures you had to take the Unity of Galicia and all the autonomous communities, including those of their political colour, because you had to manage while the Central Government was making propaganda, it would probably be very rude and they would be doing what they're doing: throwing smoke curtains, it's all Putin's fault. Look, the brutal energy transition you're doing, which is leading to the closure of fundamental Greek industries, Putin's fault. The uncertainties in the forest sector, in Ence, which is endangering so many jobs, where I live besides, in Pontevedra, and I know the problem well, it's Putin's fault. The historical rises of the price of light, they were already very high, Mr. Alvarez, before the war began, it's the same, it's Putin's fault. The inflation at 7.6% before the war began, it was Putin's fault. When you see that you can't blame any more, then you start with more smoke curtains, with those flyers in international politics. We'll see where it takes us, what consequences on the energy market and, therefore, what consequences for Galicia will have. And all those spy stories, those are smoke curtains and don't solve problems that you don't explain. That's what they're doing. Your central government in Madrid in Galicia is a problem, and you do branching and defending — you say in the first intervention — the indefensible. We're going to continue taking concrete action, we're going to follow as you say and how you claim to do things that improve people's lives: Good energy, so necessary since you were unable to contain your light, additional 100 euros. New lines of credit for companies that really need support now and for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship must continue to mingle it and take care of it always, when things go well and when things go wrong. Specific support for the most affected sectors: transport, agribusiness, certain aspects of the sea sector. All of this must be supported now especially, and we are in concrete action. Logically, in three minutes I can't explain it to you, but you know them for a while. They don't give him any importance, and I think he has a lot, and the families that will benefit themselves: the only autonomous community -- I want to say -- in Spain that has been free children since September. That for employment reconciliation and therefore to facilitate the support of many families will be fundamental. Tax discharge. I mean, we benefit from the lowest income, they're paying almost thirty percent less since 2009 in the autonomic plot, of course, in the state plot, when you rule, I know that. Of course, in the autonomous communities, Catalonia, for example, likes to set examples, Catalonia and Asturias pay a lot more taxes on the autonomic fabric than in Galicia. We believe that this is good for people to improve their lives and for them to have more resources to be able to live a little better. We'll have a chance to go ahead with more measures. I think you know them well, then you can twist them, you can make smoke curtains. Anyway, Mr. Álvarez, we're going to be dedicated to ruling. If you're in those fictional policies, those smoke-screens; I don't know if Mr. Sánchez has finished that series that he's never known again, but in fiction they know enough. But you know what? Fiction doesn't solve anything. The Greek families have real problems, and we're going to be here to try to improve. Actually, that's a funny word to you, but it's about that, people want us to improve their lives. You, in the meantime, keep doing branching and still not being a useful party in Galicia. We, my government and this group, are going to try to do everything the opposite: to be what people put us for, which is to improve people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u21	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the proposals of the Government of Greece to prevent the Greek language from continuing to lose speakers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u22	Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, allow me in this first intervention to wish you some success these two years for the sake of Galicia and not to rule since propaganda, because, of course, the situation in this country is very difficult. And I wanted to show you a picture today. This picture represents all the Welsh and Welsh people who are proud of their language, our common language, the Greek language; speak it more, speak it less or don't speak it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows the House a photograph.]] But they are Welsh and Germans who feel pride and love to have a language of their own. And I don't know if you see any picture. It's February 8, 2009, in that outraged demonstration against the Greek, with you in the front row. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows the House another photograph.]] And from that day until today the People's Party has been attacking for 13 years by land, sea, and air the English language. First, by violating the law, the Statute of Self-Government, the Law of Linguistic Standardization and the European Charter of Languages. [[Applause]] Second, by imposing that Decree of Shame, which relegates Greek to teaching to be a second language. And third, with economic asphyxiation, 55% cut in the investment of language support in this country. And this policy of harassment and overthrow has consequences; here are the reports of the Royal Academy and also the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics. Data such as that the Greek is the only language in the entire state that loses speakers, that children and girls enter the school door speaking German and go out speaking Spanish. That as a child you lose 10 percent of gallopers. [[Murmurs.]] We have 24 percent under 14 who don't express themselves, they can't express themselves in English, and 30% who can't write it. And the conclusion of all this is very clear and I want to express it in this Parliament: the People's Party is taking away the opportunity to speak in English, the People's Party is robbing the new generations of freedom to be able to express itself in Greek. So clear and so sad! [[Applause]] You see, for the first time in democracy, there is a ban on Greek for mathematics, for physics and chemistry and for technology. Mr. Rueda, why can a boy from Pontevedra or a girl from Chorente learn English, French, German and Spanish but not German? Give us just one reason. Because this is one of the prohibitions that are set out in that Decree of Shame that you disguise as multilingualism, but that is a farce, because here there is no plurilingualism. You know what's going on? Children don't learn English anymore, they don't know English anymore, and the only thing that's going on is Spanish monolingualism. You are stealing from the new generations the opportunity and freedom to speak in English. And that's why, Mr. Rueda, I ask you whether you're going to do something to prevent Welsh being the only language in the state that loses speakers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, first of all, thank you, as I have done to Mr. Álvarez, your good wishes, your congratulations, and also to hold your group's hand from an institutional point of view. Having said this, already entering the content of the question, I don't need to show any photo to say something clearly: I'm sure that my group and, of course, the Government of the Union have conceived the Greek as never an element of confrontation, never as an element of division and less — and I have to say it clearly — as an excuse how you make it to give meats of good and bad Greeks, which is what you use the Greek. [[Applause]] And the fundamental problem is — worth redundancy — that you think is a problem that we have two languages in Galicia and that we use them with complete freedom and complete cordiality. We see this as an opportunity and a wealth, and, of course, we will not give up that wealth, as much as you from one end strive to impose a monolingualism and from another end, to put on another monolingualism. In the end, the extremes look a lot more than you think. [[Applause]] In any case, and focusing on what you ask and the measures and the situation, I have to tell you that you saw the data. I mean, Mr. Álvarez, I hope you don't tell me that the data I handle are unreliable; when they are not, you have to say it, and here we have a clear case. You were talking about the IGE. Look, it's just that the IGE is there to see you, and what it says is that more people speak Greek today than five years ago; that's what IGE data says. Of course, you're not interested in making that public, being told, but this is the truth, that's what the IGE says. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose if the IGE is worth you, you'll also be worth the data I give you, which are absolutely true. And he says it's the first time, since there's statistics, the number of speakers increases. And it also says the IGE that 52% of the population or speaks only German, or, if the two languages are spoken, it is very prevalent in the daily use of the language, and that 75% of the population uses Greek daily -- three more points from the last macro-enquisition of the IGE about the Greek -- that the percentage of new people who speak Greek -- and I suppose we both agree that this is good -- if it's increasing, it's not decreasing. So it's not true the data you handle, it's not true the situation you want to draw, and it's true that the public education system is basically working well when it comes to giving and providing skills, providing us to the Greeks to use our language. Look: 95.46 % understands Greek, 97.43 % knows how to speak, 85% know how to read it, and 87% know how to write it. Of course, this is not the fruit of chance, this is the fruit of measures that have been implemented for many years to make this a reality, a rich reality, which continues to grow and has to grow. Plan to dynamize the Greek language in youth, 17 million euros, thirty-nine measures. Plan to dynamize the Welsh language in the economic fabric, 100 measures, 5 million. Plans for the promotion of the Welsh language in families and sports, one million euros, only the last year. Project We, fundamental, this is a Next Generation project. I hope you use its broad influence in Madrid to allow us the possibility of using new technologies to also put Greek in the future and that the tools and possibilities of the virtual world can be applied so that it will continue to grow. So, Mrs. Pontón, the situation of course has to continue to improve, of course, that the duty of the Galician Union is to continue to promote the use of our language and, therefore, we defend in the past, we defend today and we will defend the Greek, but without taxes, eh!, neither of you nor of the other extreme. [[Applause]] We don't want — and I'm done now, Mr. President —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u26	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u27	...a monolingual society, neither in English nor Spanish. So I will continue to defend a model of harmonic, cordial linguistic coexistence, as most of the Greeks want, the vast majority of the Greeks, if they allow me. And you know what? By enriching it, indeed, with other languages. We've always been a community open to the world and people love us in the world ahead, and that's most of it for our linguistic wealth, for that open spirit that gives us two languages and makes us much more friendly in many places. So as long as it depends on me, of course, and as long as it depends on this government, and I hope that the governments that happen to us think the same thing, the Greek will continue to be among our priorities. Of course, it's a fundamental wealth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u29	We have that huge luck. But you know what, Mrs. Pontón? We're going to do it with freedom, with openness and with fullness, not as you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u30	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u31	Mr. Rueda, you're the one who knows about confrontation. Here he was in this outrage in the front row against the Greek, against the Greek who feels rebound today in the Union of Galicia. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows the House a photograph.]] [[Applause]] And of course the ends are touched, Mr. Rueda. Yes, yes, here in 2009 the extremes began to touch, the most reactionary sectors of the People's Party, anticipating what we now see are the PP pacts with the far right. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows the House the same previous photograph.]] [[Applause]] Of course you touch the ends, Mr. Rueda. Of course they touch and rule together. [[Applause]] And you came here today to tell the whole of the Galician society and the public institutions that lie, that lies to the Royal Galega Academy when in a scientific report you believe that what the Decree of Shame is to make us lose spokespersons, that there is no improvement in competition in English and advance in monolinguism. That's what he's reporting, not the BNG, the Royal Galician Academy. [[Applause]] They also lie, according to you, the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, which they're telling us is that the parents and mothers who educate their children in Greek, who decide freely, are reporting that the school is becoming a disqualifying agent. And that's the responsibility of the People's Party decree. They don't advocate multilingualism. You want to move forward towards monolingualism in Spanish, because they don't improve the learning of foreign languages either. I also think that the Council of Europe, which reports to them, is telling them that they violate the European Charter of Minorised Languages and that it must be brought to an end that decree which is prohibiting subjects from being given in English. And you didn't tell me, Mr. Rueda, why math can be given in English and can't be given in English. Tell him, give us a reason, what's the scientific reason he's here. There's no scientific reason, there's the closure of the People's Party, which has been working against linguistic freedom in Galicia for the past few years. I can tell you that a BNG government will return the opportunity and freedom to the new generations to speak German. Linguistic equality is what we're going to put in place, and we're going to do it by talking to society, putting in place a teaching decree that supports that Greek is a language of the future, because it was the language of our grandparents and our grandparents, it's the language of our parents and mothers, and I at least want my daughter to have the opportunity and freedom to speak in Greek. And you have no right to steal the Greek from the new generations, you have no right, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I asked you a question today... I don't know if I can go on or if they're gonna keep interrupting... democracy and freedom. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u32	Silence! Give an answer later to the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u33	I asked you a very specific question about a central theme, because Greek is the common language of Galicia. Are they going to do anything to make the Greek stop being the only language in the state that loses talkers or will they continue with that policy of harassment and overthrow? Of course, it is a sadness that today the president of the Union, even if it is accidental, has manifested itself in his curriculum against the language of all the Greeks and Greeks. You have the opportunity to rectify it, and above all to do something positive for the Greek to have more future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u34	Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you mustn't have been very happy with the arguments you gave me or those photos you taught you had to go in — it didn't last institutional courtesy — disqualifying my legitimacy to be here answering your question. Frankly, in that case, you disqualify this Parliament if you think I have no legitimacy to be President of the Council of Galicia. I'm not going to enter that kind of attitude, in which you seem to have been your usual tone before and it's going to be now. On the contrary, I'm going to be descriptive. And I'm going to read a sentence: the Galician Nationalist Block is like those mothers who want so much for little children who squeeze them so hard that they hold them. Don't put this face on. This phrase isn't mine, it's from someone who knows them a lot better than me probably, it's from Jesus Alonso Montero, who knows the Block well and therefore says this exactly. And I think, Mrs. Pontón, you know them well; yes, yes, of course. [[Applause]] So by taking this sentence, with which I agree quite well, I want to believe — I'm sure — that the problem is that you don't even recognize it much less, with that mania that I told you before giving them good and bad meats; you use the Greek for that. I do believe you want the Greek. So what I'm asking you to do is you don't make a partisan use of it all the time and you don't want it so much that you're actually going to end up suffocating it, you're gonna end up drowning it. It's happened to them once in a short time, fortunately, for the time they had in the bipartisan government. Of course, it was not the only reason, because they did quite a few bad things, but that effort to break up with the cordial bilingualism that was in Galicia I am sure it was one of the reasons that led them without any doubt to lose the government so quickly. And fortunately, they didn't have time to do everything they had planned. [[Applause]] On today's day, the Greek continues to grow. You don't like those IGE figures. It's funny: the part he likes, begs her; the part he doesn't like, manipulates her. But what's true is not absolutely worth it, being the same source. Really, it's funny. So, he writes a reality that's not like that. I'm going to tell you one thing: they want you, those who want the Greek -- I suppose you'll also recognize me the right to want my own language -- because I'm glad that the number of speakers... No, I know you don't. You don't realize that we want people who aren't from BNG, but this is a reality. This is a reality that will have to get in the head as soon as possible. [[Applause]] And the speakers grow, because there's data. And those who want the Greek rejoice that our language is the one that has higher levels of competence for all the officers, than I'm glad too. And we're also glad that oral comprehension is around 100 percent and writing is about 90 percent. And we are pleased that the PISA report — which I suppose you will understand is not a report by the People's Party — says that of the communities that have co-official languages here is where students use the two co-official languages with a greater release. And the Greeks and the Greeks that we like cordial bilingualism and we love that cordial bilingualism, what we see in Greek is a huge opportunity, not to partisan or political, nor to separate between good and bad as you do. It's an opportunity to connect better with our roots -- fundamental. It's an opportunity to feel proud, frankly proud of the world ahead of our cultural heritage; for that it also serves a language of its own, Mrs. Pontón, not to confront us every day. An opportunity to connect — you didn't talk about it — with a universe of nearly 300 million luscious people. That therefore opens up cultural opportunities, but also socio-economic opportunities. An opportunity to open up to new technologies, such as the Noi project, of what I've told you before. I know you don't care, but it's fundamental, it's putting more Greek in the fields that have more potential and more future. There's one thing, Mrs. Pontón -- and I'm going to finish now, Mr. President -- you wrote me a letter a few days ago where I put a lot of homework, six sheets, all that investment program that you've assembled and where I've been elected president, even though you don't think I have legitimacy. You put me there a lot of homework, things I considered urgent, and it was necessary to act as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Do you know how many lines—it's good if you know—you dedicated it to the Greek in six pages? Zero. [[Applause]] Do you know why I think that's it? Because you're still doing opportunism, and on the one hand, you think it's not worth it. This is a subject that I had to ask the president of the board at a first meeting. By the way, by the way, of course, that if you ask me, I understand that you in those duties you put me in, you're also asking me to receive it, and do so, and if the leader of the Socialist Party asks me, of course I will also do it, it's my duty, in that institutional spirit. But I told him that as you consider everything that has to do with Greek as an issue of opportunism, a subject of confrontation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u37	...in the end — if I am going to finish, Mr President — they have little concern about the future. Join in the consensus for cordial bilingualism, Mrs. Pontón; join in not waving the Welsh, but promoting these thousand more springtimes. Of course, I'm telling you one thing: we don't want a monolingual Galician, either in German or Spanish. And we don't want -- what you would like, what you would like at the other end too -- that there isn't that cordial bilingualism in Galicia. We want a Galicia harmoniously bilingual, we want a Galicia naturally bilingual and we want a Galicia proudly bilingual, make it clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u39	It was clear. And that's how we're going to go on. And while, yes, the Greek is our language, and the Spanish, English, French, Portuguese and everything that opens us to the world, Mrs. Pontón. This is the open Galicia which neither confronts nor gives meats of good or bad gales. Galicia is open and plural and proud of its language. That's what this government defends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u40	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u41	We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, proposals not of law. We started with the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the restoration of the current regime of derogations since 2015, which excluded the obligation to self-quota those persons who have income as holders of agricultural holdings when they do not exceed certain thresholds of income and economic performance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u42	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u43	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Probably keeping the Government wider and more expensive in recent history, which Pedro Sánchez, the coalition executive between socialists and Podemos, supported by the Galician Nationalist Block, with nothing but twenty-two ministries, at a cost that triples that of previous governments up to 172,000 million euros in 2021, is a shot at supporting all government structures and the legion of advisers. To support this disproportionate political framework, and most of the time in which it runs, brings together its consequences. The first and most immediate is the government's obsession with raising the tax burden, i.e. taxes. So far what has happened is that the lack of economic diligence of the state coalition executive and the excesses of the Spanish Government — I insist: the widest and most expensive of our history — are paying them out of their pockets the middle classes and the working classes. I mean, a fiscal hell that has nothing to do with the necessary impulse behind the pandemic, but it has to do with a political conception on the left. The left believes that public money is nobody's; overthrowing it in duplicate structures and paying political favors to its partners is part of the idea of the left in our country. But besides the slogan used by Sánchez has been shown to be a farce, because we don't go out stronger, there are family companies that are staying behind without an alternative and they don't just pay the rich. The rise of taxes on plastics and wastes, tax harmonization at the level or future initiatives already advanced, such as the imposition of taxes on land transport routes, also means that they pay more than they have. And the socialists in Moncloa are not only unable to reduce taxes, despite the extraordinary collection of prices, but also preparing new tax increases. They also take advantage of the interpretation and reform of the laws to continue to collect everything that can with fiscal greed that now reaches the Greek agriturismo. At the point of view of the Government are the so-called sporadic farmers. It's those who grow vegetables, harvest chestnuts, apples or vines, and do them in part-time. They are those people who have agriculture as a complementary income, which at no point is their main activity, those who, with the legislation in force in their hands, the Government forces itself to be discharged as autonomous, as they move us from the sector itself. Several files have already been opened for Greek farmers to quit. In addition, the State obliges them to pay retroactively the late rates of previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, the State is forcing itself to be discharged even to those who are already running away because they have another activity, and also to those who have already declared their income from these crops. This was not before the legal reform introduced by the Government of Sanchez in 2020. The previous legislation on Social Security, in its Article 324 adopted in 2015, expressly indicated that they were excluded from the obligation to contribute to the system for self-employed persons. This inclusion did not apply to random, but rather by setting limits, either depending on the income generated by the previous activity or the yields obtained from the exploitation. The establishment of the ahead limits made it impossible for many small farms owners who had other activities or jobs to pay for their agricultural activity to consider it clearly a supplement to income. However, this situation has changed radically without any logical explanation, because the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos has pronounced a measure which is a very hard blow to thousands of Greeks; in particular, to the holders of family farms who have a complement to their activity in the field. The Executive of Pedro Sánchez has decided to strike the economy of thousands of families in our rural municipalities. Therefore, since that reform, the law obliges, for example, an albanel, a nurse or a teacher who also have a small farm farm, by simply having the right estate and going to do some work on it, they will have to quit and pay a monthly contribution that can charge them an average cost of over two hundred euros a month. It is true that after the situation of instability and surprise generated among those affected by that decision, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food himself, Mr. Luis Planas, acknowledged the mistake and indicated that this regime would be modified by an instruction, which is still pending and has not occurred today. Finished, ladies and gentlemen, with considerations that are not interpretations of the People's Party, but of the main trade unions and agricultural associations of our country. "If we are forced to rise as autonomous many of those people who have very low returns from this type of agriculture, we are at risk that these productions that are giving life to rural people, that prevent fires and deforestation and that generate income and that declare themselves tax may disappear." That wasn't what the People's Party said, that was what they said, and it was made sure of a leader of Agricultural Unions. "In Galicia this type of agricultural activity is of vital importance both at the social and economic levels in rural areas, they are a tool to keep rural and active, and they are not being valued as it should be." Nor did the People's Group or the People's Party say so; this is a statement made by the Galician Labour Union. And that is why the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party, in line with the main Greek agricultural trade unions, demand the need to demand that the Ministry of Farming and Social Security be treated properly so that this agriculture can be maintained and prevent the concern of the Government of Sánchez from disincentivizing small farmers in rural areas. And that is precisely what we are asking for through this initiative. I suppose the Galego Nationalist Block, which despite defending the Greek... that's why, Mr. President, you and I, that we've ever spoken in Spanish, but that we're Galegos, and I've also expressed myself in Greek in this Parliament, and we've been speaking in Greek for years. It is true that when I arrived Mrs. Pontón was already there, and she has already... I've been here for a few years! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I hope you support this initiative because it is not something that the People's Party or the German trade unions are inventing, but it is something that was already being done by 2020. And what you've done with that horrendous rush is the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos is to force all these people to discharge at a cost of about two hundred euros a month. And with what it's raining, you've already seen that this hoax that has this government -- it's not strange to me: 172,000 million euros of government cost in 2021 -- because of course we have to collect because, as it says, it doesn't give, and as it says, the blanket gives what it gives. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u44	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Not only do I speak it, but I also think of English. I'll tell him because I'm Arranian, as you well know. [[Laughter]] Mr Martín Seco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today the People's Party brings this initiative that urges the Galician Union to go to the Government of Spain for the restoration of the current regime of derogations since 2015, which excluded the obligation to self-quote those people who had income as landowners when they did not exceed certain thresholds of income and economic performance. Once again, the Galician People's Party, instead of providing solutions to a troubled sector, Mr. Balsairo, tries to generate uncertainty and concern in farmers and livestock, in its sole interest in erosion of the Government of Spain, and all the knowledge that it is a problem that does not exist in the sector and that exists only in your head, Mr. Balsairo. Even agricultural organisations — I don't know who you are talking to — I spoke to the most responsible of these agricultural union issues yesterday — don't see the problem. And what you expose to this initiative is not affecting our farmers and livestock in Galicia. A People's Party in Galicia that has been unable from the German Government to help with its own funds the agricultural sectors affected by the crisis of the coronavirus, devoting only the one established by the European Union in the funds of the PDR, i.e. the funds that are European. And what is most worrying: today he did not put a single euro in direct aid to the agricultural sectors following the international price crisis, despite the promise made by the former president of the Board on 24 March in a press round given after a government council, in which he asked the Government of the State to put the same thing the European Union put in direct aid, which was 65 million euros; committed to this press round to which the Government of Greece, together with the rest of the autonomous communities, put the same thing among all that the Government of the State put. The reality is that the Government of Spain put more than twice as much on the table than the European Union put on, but two months later the Galician Union did not put up a single euro, zero euros. We're waiting to see if President Rueda can tell Mr. Balsairo that he does something to fulfill his government's promises, or continues in his absolute inaction to the international crises generated by the pandemic and also by the rising prices. The Government of the State has approved a package of aid of EUR 300 million for the agricultural sector, of which EUR 169 million specifically for the dairy sector and EUR 193 million, including the 65 million in Europe, for the rest of the agricultural and livestock sector. In addition, if you benefit from the reduction of 20 cents per fuel book, which is a sector of around seventy-eight million euros. This is a matter of country, Mr. Balsairo. That's what they care about the land's land's land's livestock and farmers. We have also not heard anything from the People's Party about the Government's approved agri-food market, which will mobilise more than one billion euros, with an extra investment of eight hundred million for water management, with an impact on the Spanish economy of three billion euros and the creation of sixteen thousand net jobs. We have also not heard anything from the Order of the Ministry of Business and Public Service, so that net performance rates for the 2021 tax period are reduced for farmers and earners in the IRPF target estimate system. This reduction of modules amounts to 20% in the net performance approved by the Royal Decree on measures to alleviate the effects of drought. And it's estimated that the set of all these module reductions can imply a reduction from the taxable base of the order of one thousand ninety-three million euros, which benefits nine hundred thousand farmers and livestock who from all over the state choose the module system. The set of these measures can suppose to Galicia an estimated tax base reduction of thirty-one million euros; about eleven million corresponds to the index reductions of agricultural activities, while the other twenty million would be due to an extra 20% reduction in yield to cope with drought. And we know that something more than fifty-five thousand Greek farmers and livestock welcomed the target agrarian estimate regime in 2019. Surely this money, Mr. Balsairo, is not to thicken the arks of that government that it charges so much. But this is not important for the Galician People's Party, the important thing for Mr. Balsairo and his Party is to generate a fictitious conflict on a topic in which he literally states that "it does not take few complaints from the Labour Inspectorate and that not a few citizens face countless fines for working on their agricultural holdings without being discharged into the land-based self-employed regime." I appeal to you here, to the spokesperson of the People's Party on this subject, to tell me of a single case of a German farmer or farmer who, by means of his activity, perceived less than the annual minimum interprofessional wage, received a complaint for this reason. I'm sorry I did. Because they know it's not so, that in no case is the Ministry of Social Security denouncing or punishing these affected, because when they are consulted, they have income under the said minimum wage, from the Ministry there is absolutely no problem. If you act with honesty and institutional loyalty, we can agree that the publication of Royal Decree 15/2020 has caused a confusion which the Minister of Agriculture himself acknowledged. A change in the special system for self-employed farmers to strengthen and boost this system, without those requirements related to employment income. A abolition that facilitated access to the social guarantees of small farmers and gave them legal security, because it clearly determines who is a small farmer, since by drastically reducing many productions, the lowest agricultural incomes made permanence impossible in this system for many farmers. It was also a claim from the Greek agricultural unions, Mr. Balsairo. It is true that this royal decree removed the criterion of agricultural income that it determined when a person had to quote as an autonomous, when before they had to discharge themselves necessarily those who perceived by the sale of their productions more than 50 percent of their income. And it caused concern for farmers and part-time farmers, especially in Andalusia and Levante — not here, Mr Balsairo — who thought they would have to contribute. And the minister, as you said, undertook to draw up a clarification instruction so that it could be corrected that it was only mandatory to contribute to those who perceive more annually than the minimum interprofessional wage. The reality is that in the requirements that are required to be included in the system of self-employed agricultural workers, which is part of the special scheme of self-employed workers, or autonomous workers must meet the essentials of inclusion in the special scheme; that is, to be older, to carry out activity in a habitual, personal, direct way, on their own and outside the scope of other person's leadership and organization and on a lucrative basis. In that sense, and just as jurisprudence is being interpreted, obtaining income below the minimum annual interprofessional wage is a proof of a lack of habit, which determines the exclusion of the scope of application of the system. An element which must be valued in each specific case to determine in each assumption whether or not the circumstances determining the compulsory discharge in the agrarian self-employed system are matched or not. In other words, for such inclusion to be compulsory it will be necessary for holders of agricultural holdings to carry out their agricultural work in a personal, direct and lucrative way, with the exclusion of mere agricultural activity aimed at self-consumption. I'm going to read a consultation that makes the Ministry of Social Security a worker who together with her husband has constituted a civil society for the exercise of an economic activity, which indicates that the business is going to go wrong and that society will be dissolved, but the person concerned will be left with one part of the business, for which 500 euros a month. It says that with the previous incomes, you have to pay a discount on social security of 250 euros per month and that this is why you're going to go to extreme poverty. So please see if this situation is forced to cause discharge in the special scheme of self-employed or self-employed workers. A case that or ministry itself bears the title "High-ranking obligation in the special scheme of self-employed or self-employed workers when the income obtained by the activity is lower than the minimum interprofessional wage". A case similar to the case involving a farmer or farmer who obtains less than the minimum interprofessional wage to be included in the SETA. And as it says in its own report or Ministry: "In order for a worker to be integrated into the special self-employed or self-employed scheme, it is required that the activity carried out should be carried out in a habitual and lucrative manner. In other words, it must have a sufficient entity for the time spent on work and income obtained from it, so that jobs with low dedication and low performance are considered marginal activities excluded from the scheme." And it refers to different judgments of the Supreme Court, including those of 29 October 1997, where it is found that "the criterion of the amount of remuneration is suitable for assessing the requirement of habituality". Or the Supreme Court's judgment of 20 March 2007 concerning a alleged high-ranking worker in the scheme who sees his income reduced to less than 75% of the minimum inter-professional salary and calls for a drop in this condition in the given scheme. This judgment takes into account the considerations of the aforementioned judgment of the year 1997 in order to fail the descent of the lower court by saying, "The logic is to conclude that the person's predecessor should not be understood in the precepts cited at the beginning of that ground of law, by not appreciating in it the competition of the requirement of habituality in the performed activity". That said, from our group we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we agree on the substance of the matter, but there is no problem for farmers and livestock farmers who receive less than the minimum inter-professional wage per year, as the minister said, there are no complaints, no sanctions. And I repeat again that if it's true what they say on the initiative that you said here, make some sanctions here for this reason to a Greek farmer or farmer. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u46	Thank you, Mr. Seco. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u47	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you. It is at least shocking that the need for the PP to erode the government of the state leads to acknowledging the eavesdroppings of our rural environment. If you don't owe them to your policies, no, you're due to accidents and laws that always do others. Because you, an autonomous government party, which is not autonomous, with this GNP, are recognizing that in Galicia farmers and part-time farmers, double or triple self-employed people, because they have converted agricultural activity into a residual, decadent fact in many abandoned areas of our geography, and in the non-left ones as well. Absentists and direct workers of the earth, here's the problem with all their cruelty, that you don't enter it. And surely the subject that deals with us is serious because of the consequences that it can have if the heavens do not prevent it. It's always the government that governs, the state governments are used to nonsense like this, which is the result of policies of dispatch and ignorance of the reality of our country. Always in case such measures contemplate any reality. The People's Party always denies that there is a situation in our rural area of "showing you as you can", which forces a few people who are left to go and share various jobs and activities with the usual, agricultural activity. The simple fact of having an onion pig or two sheep to clean up the surroundings of the house and get a bit of dung for self-consumption potatoes requires an AEC, and we're already holding a farm, which in the case of the pig may even appear as intensive. Look at that barbarity and what statistics can come out later! Because in the quest to regulate everything, to write it in the role of law, which almost always no one does because it's difficult to comply with, it takes the user, the hidden resident of the countryside, to which his potato leash is considered an agroindustrial latifundament or his sheep pets when they are pure and hard self-consumption. A real dislate that unfortunately we're used to. Leximo? That's right, but warped, turning him into a contributor who, in the manner of King Bourbon, hides these little fraudulent commissions in every light. And now the MP is here today to remind us of the lack of protection of small farms or livestock or mixed farms in this country. And he's right. Such a measure by the Government of the State to which it refers is a further disincentive that will lead to boredom and disconsideration to those who still live in rural areas and have some life in it, as we say in Paladin Roman. But he does not mention that at the root of the 19th century and its consequences, when the Government of the Union took out that order of aid in 2020 for beef cattle, he excluded holdings of less than ten suckler cows. Those didn't count. No, I'm nothing. And here the nearby Government had the duty to know the reality, to know that these small farms are those that are directly incardinated with the territory and that they establish a direct management that is not residual, as the PP intends in its policies, and yes a reality of pure survival, in addition to a need for the most of the people we continue having the courage to inhabit our villages. You know, ladies and gentlemen, for now, many of the people we stopped in the village keep taking in the blood stream a little milk, potato and grass, and we don't get subtracted from the chicken complement, cow, pig, vegetable, pepper, tomatoes, garlic, onion, pyrigel. What do you want me to tell them? And it comes with all the offices and people studied against, with mandatory chips, crotals, annual declarations, sanitation, collection of dead animals, meat from food manipulators, phytosanitary meat, ITV from the antique machinery of those we are in part time... I know how many papers and how many things! That I say yes, that it is good to organize everything according to modern times. But what about the other modernity?, the price worthy of production?, that of the useful agricultural surface and the need for land mobility?, that of primary care?, that of day care?, that of internet coverage?, that of the nearby and free baccalaureate?, that of residences?, that of banking services?, that of public transport? Is there anything you know about all this? Because you're going to have to think about turning these things around, taking the countryside seriously and putting some remedy on it. We'll wait for a couple of kids and see. Yes, that we're going to vote in favour, because it seems to us that I've already told you: another stupid fruit of the ignorance of reality. But it's also hours, Mr. Balsairo, to put the batteries on him and look at the most urgent food sovereignty. The support of the entire country that prays, to produce in proximity, to recognize the actual existence of people who practice part-time farming, not only with easy and opportunistic ones but also with measures that, in addition to facilitating the lives of rural people, support and promote small and medium-sized farms. Do you know what the comarcas or collaborative spaces are? That's where you can pack to the vacuum, make a jam, cast the honey, prepare cooked dishes, vegetables. Do you know what are pickup halls, slaughterhouses nearby so farmers and ranchers can live and give life? Well, yes, the central government's ear-skinned for that new stupidity made a decree. But look in your own eye if you have earrings similar to those seen in your alien eyes. From the BNG we think we do, that they have a straw in every eye. So look into the mirror and act accordingly for our good, that of all, that which is so little interest to them. By the way, I met cordial bilingualism, ladies and gentlemen, when I went to school, at school and in the career, in the contempt of those who had the social power, you, the right, that fascist. Then we live in the persecution already in democracy for giving school in Greek. I saw him in the eyes of thousands of children who were injured in their basic right to speak the language that human diversity had given them. Harmonic bilingualism, linguistic repression, xenocide harmony.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. As author of the non-law proposition Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u49	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the initiative shouldn't have been so bad because you said you were going to support it, which is to thank you for supporting it and recognizing that there is a mistake. Which is why, from this House's majority group, thank you very much for supporting an initiative that is just for Galician rural, which is fair for that rural that has always defended the People's Party, that we are the party that looks most like Galician and that is more similar to the Greeks. But I said this, I do have to make some clarification to Mr. Seco. Because Mr. Seco said who we were talking to, and that that didn't bother anyone. Man, if nobody's worried I don't know why they're supporting him. Who are we talking to? With people, with a lot more people you talk to. In fact, it demonstrates the election after the election that we in the People's Party talk to a lot more people who speak the Socialist Party or speak the Galician Nationalist Block. That any Greek should understand. [[Applause]] But what does the Socialist Party want?, should sporadic farmers have to go to justice to prevent them from being punished for not being discharged into Social Security? Why don't they recover the regime of exceptions that existed in the previous legislation? That it was you who changed it, didn't change it by the People's Party, and didn't change it by sporadic farmers; it was changed by the Socialist Party and Podemos. You changed it. Why don't they reform the law? Do you intend to judge the activity of small producers at the cost that it would represent? Why did the minister say he was going to publish a clarification instruction and they haven't done it yet? The minister admitted the mistake. You tell who we're talking to. Man, it wouldn't be very normal, though yes, that a member of the People's Party had spoken to the minister or the ministry. But you, in addition, are the critics within the Socialist Party, less than talking to the minister before you arrive at Parliament's rostrum and inform yourself! [[Applause]] Why are agricultural unions worried? You said who we'd talk to. For "In Galicia this kind of agricultural activity" - it seems you didn't understand it from the first round, but I'm going to repeat it in the second round - "is of vital importance at both social and economic levels in rural areas. I'm a tool for keeping rural active and alive, and it's not being valued as it should be." This gave the Galician Labour Union. But if he's not worth this, he says let's take one case. Then I'll put it on, because I knew you were going out there, and I was ready too. Look: a recent case in Cambados. [[Laughter]] Are they Cambados? He'll be alone. To the Block itself, that those of the Block as they sell Greek meat, that'll be all. A file was processed by the Ministry of Labour that forced itself to be discharged as an autonomous, after detecting the Agency's income from agriculture, to a young man in charge of his family vineyard, to cover the costs of his studies. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the income wasn't more than three thousand euros. But it's not like that, just like current regulations are. The current regulations are not the three thousand euros. For having a euro of income from agricultural activity you have to rate as autonomous, ladies and gentlemen. You change the law and you change it where it was before you changed it, because it's unacceptable for the Government of Spain to get everyone in the same bag anyway. It doesn't make any sense because it's people whose exploitation doesn't give them to live 100 percent, but it's used as a complement to them. I mean, it's an aberration, lords of the Socialist Party and lords of the Galician Nationalist Block; it's an unprecedented aberration. And if it doesn't change, it can have such serious consequences as that part of the sector, which by its small division cannot sustain such a high contribution, it has an extra cost of about three thousand euros a year. I only ask you to learn from the Government of Galicia. You go to Galician countryside, which seems to be the defenders of Galician rural areas, put more taxes on them. And the Government of Galicia, for years, has been taxing zero in rural areas. That's the small difference that governs the right, as you say, the left. [[Murmurs.]] You, more taxes, to pay that supergovernment you have, the most expensive in history, 172,000 euros — I will not tire of saying it — cost in 2021, 172,000 euros! They look at how many highways would be made, how many roads would be made, how many roads would be rented in rural areas, how many needs in rural areas of Galicia and in rural Spain with those 172,000 million euros! And you're so happy. [[Applause]] You look like you're happy because you're laughing. Is this funny to you? Is it funny, in one of the most important crises we are experiencing in Spain, that there is a government that spends 172,000 euros in its government in the year 2021? Are you funny? But, well, we already know that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u51	...they like to overthrow, because the same thing that they're showing in Spain has already been demonstrated in Galicia during the years 2005-2009. [[Applause]] Do you remember when they took the snows in the official cars, remember when they remodeled the offices, remember when they bought the chairs and all the furniture, remember?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u52	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u53	Do you remember when they set up the kitchens in the councils?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u54	Finish it, Mr. Balsairo. Easy, Mr. Balsairo! Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u55	Do you remember? We've met. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u56	Thank you. Proposal for a non-law of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the need to care for mental health in the educational field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u57	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u58	Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor to defend the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u59	Thank you, President. I was reminded the other day as I was preparing an article for the newspaper in Pontevedra, precisely also about mental health in the field of youth, in the field of education, of the film by Michael Moore, of the year 2002, Bowling for Columbine. In one of those interviews in the documentary, Michael Moore asked Marilyn Manson if he had Columbine's boys there. And Manson replied: I wouldn't tell them a single word, I would listen to what they have to say, which is exactly what no one did for them. I was reminded of this the other day. Sadly today, we all wake up this morning with a new tragedy, so brutal and dramatic, even more perhaps that of Columbine, Uvalde, Texas. I think they always buy about this and today at least two reflections. The first is that, or we are able to put the mental health problems of youth, problems such as school harassment, at the center of debate, or tragedies of this type and others without that dimension, we live every day in our classrooms are chronicled in society. And the second of the reflections is that on many occasions we perceive these realities as furnishing, as inappropriate, as not directly affecting a society like ours. But the truth is, as soon as we put our hands on the hemerothec of the last month, I don't want to go any further there, more especially as we go to the data that are putting us on the table of organisms like the INE, like the ANAR foundation, etc., I think there are reflections that are forced, reflections that start from what Manson said: listen, listen to youth, listen to the signs that are issuing us every day. But far beyond listening, I think it's also duty for us to act and wake up. And we did it, because some of the indicators that you're putting on the table, I think they're to make all the alarms jump, and many of them aren't new anymore. In the first year of pandemic, in the Spanish State, fourteen children and three hundred young men died of suicide in the Spanish State, twice as much as in the previous year. If we go to the German case, in our country we have the second highest suicide rate in the Spanish state, just behind Asturias. The number of suicide attempts and self-injury between adolescents and children — we're talking about even under eight — in our country has doubled since 2020; in two years twice. We are the second largest community in the state and the highest in Europe that the most antidepressants dispense with minors. And last year, 2,893 Welsh children, nearly 3,000 children and children in this country, used the AAR Foundation's phone for mental health and suicide issues and harassment issues. What we're going to say with all these signs, with all this data, is that either we put the accent, we focus and we start reaching agreements between all of us on this reality, or then few questions can justify more intensively than we are here and why we're here. So I invite you to a joint reflection and in order to reach agreements to answer three fundamental questions: First, is this a problem that can be solved exclusively from the educational point of view? We're convinced we don't. Secondly, is this a problem that we also have to answer from the educational field? We're convinced we are. And the third of the questions, which we want to focus this debate, is the Education Administration at the time of the problem, which all the bodies are showing from the data, have we in our system? I spoke only days ago with a companion, with an orienteer from a center that is close to me, a middle village in our country, and moved me -- so I'm going to say openly; I'm sorry, president -- Manu, we're hounded and hounded in the center. We're a center of 400 students and we've opened eleven suicide protocols. And this may seem like an anomaly or an exclusive barbarity of a center, as soon as we ask about the centers of this country, we'll see what a reality is going on in an alarmingly surprising way as well. So I think what we have to put on the table is whether the tools we have are working on, whether they're effective, and whether we're up to the problem we have on the table from the administration. And let's look at some of these tools: The Greek school coexistence strategy -- the first one we had -- was for the years 2015-2020; two years after the expiration of this strategy, this strategy continues to stop. On April 14, 2021, the Education Councillor announces in this same forum the 2021-2025 strategy. We're in May 2022, and we don't have a single published line of the 2021-2025 coexistence strategy. And that's not it anymore, there's not a single line published, it's that we can't even read the 2015-2020 school coexistence strategy assessment. The emotional welfare plan was published in February 2021. We're not going into whether it's too late or not, because that's what we need to overcome. But what is being denounced by the entire educational community, what is being evidenced is that it is an inflated document of absolute absurd bureaucracy. I don't know if you know the document, but any center you move is an impossible application document. Why? What is the budget allocation for the emotional welfare plan? I'll tell you: zero euros. What are the resources that has the emotional welfare plan in the educational system? I'll tell you, too, zero euros. I am left with a question, with a reflection that Mr. Roder said yesterday, which I think is fine, because I understand that it will be who defends his position, who literally said — I took it from his intervention, Mr. Roder: there are consensus in the centers that the professor of the centre itself is who best can cover the casualties, because they are the ones who know the programming best. I've got to say I've been blown all the alarms, Mr. Roder. And what I'm asking is that if you're the one who thinks that's what you're thinking, you're going up here to this gallery and you tell the teachers at the centres that attend the casualties, that you're paying attention to the bureaucracy that they have to attend, that they give their lessons and that they ensure that the eleven suicide protocols that we've opened in the centers will be able to go out ahead. [[Applause]] We could go on. School harassment protocol. It's been announced for two years, not a single line either. But in December 2021, the Government of the State, at the Sectorial Conference of Children, reached an agreement with the autonomous communities to establish a series of measures to alleviate the situation we have on the table with school harassment, therefore with mental health. So here in these measures, there were minimal recommendations, such as ensuring full victim care, stock catalog, protocols. Well, the adaptation was January and April 2022. The only news we have about this is the press release of the TVG. And in May 2022, we know absolutely nothing. And he said the other day, in a question in committee, Mr. Mira Lema about the importance of implementing measures, measures that we had, for example, the Virtual Education Plan, and he ridiculed this in some way by pointing out: what does the Virtual Education Plan have to do with the student's mental health? I, who no longer had a reply, what I thought at that time was: of course, it's that from the offices of San Caetano you probably don't realize what it's like to have an Asperger student, who has to go home without any kind of communication, without any kind of tool to be cared for, without any resources; the level of frustration and mental health problem that that that student has. Now I can tell you some things, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: the family and the teacher go if we know that this affects mental health, and that's why we want measures to be implemented. [[Applause]] And the same is true of the demand that centers are moving in with regard to the solutions that can be put on the table about psychiatric care. We have, before, over 20,000 minors treated with psychopharmaceuticals. It's like we've had the entire village of the education councillor, Lalín, treated with psychopharmaceuticals in this country. What we ask ourselves is: do you have the capacity of the health system to meet this demand that the education system is saying there exists, that we have on the table? What we're told by psychiatric care professionals is that you either pay or wait. This is what José Eduardo Rodríguez, a doctor at the Suicide Prevention Unit, said about issues with mental health youth, and he said: we have serious or very serious cases. That's either: they've either given him consistent verbalization, or they've tried to commit suicide on several occasions. They buy cross-border measures and buy sectoral measures. This is what the entire scientific community, the entire educational community and the entire medical community are saying. And I believe that we as representatives of this people, as representatives of youth, and in this case speaking of teaching, are obliged to keep up with these signs that are moving us to youth, this absolutely dramatic situation that is living after a pandemic. And, of course, I believe that this hand tends in order to reach an agreement, which we must do, because it is our moral obligation, but especially so that in cases where we might have avoided we never have to ask ourselves again before a suicide case that we can predict: what would you tell him if he was here? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u60	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Noelia Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u61	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all. Well, we also shared the concern, the statement of motives and the indicators, the reality and the X-ray that brought us closer to the voicer of the proposed group. It is absolutely indisputable around those figures about the problem and the incidence of diseases, mental health problems, our youth and childhood, and indeed, more and more of the earlier ages. On the other hand, we also pointed out yesterday in this Parliament that this cry of help is moving the different public schools in our country around the growth of the student — and this particular course — with special needs. On this line, this parliamentary group has presented various initiatives in which it was precisely asked to strengthen the guidance departments in the educational centres. Our amendment goes that way and we want to justify why. Because we think about a matter so sensitive, so delicate and so worrying about the suitability to fine-tune. And it was precisely a question we shared: is it from the educational field where we have to respond to this situation around mental health? And you answered, Mr. Sobral, saying no, but that we must also act. And we share it. But we wanted to place that, apart from the actions in the field of education, we think that if we speak in a mental health initiative, we can only exaggerate and focus where we think that we have to put it, which is the health level where we have to claim essentially to the Galician Council, once again, that it puts the right means to answer this problem. [[Applause]] It must not be lost in view that fundamental and mainly, starting from that base, is in the field of public health where we need the resources and a better model in the face of the indisputable and obvious evasia it presents today. Because we can't forget that Galicia stands on the podium of autonomous communities with that worst ratio of professionals for years in all mental health categories. And as we have pointed out from this parliamentary group, by our spokesman Mr Torrado, denouncing the breaches of parliamentary agreements around the model, the resources, to advance the weak policies of the Council of Health and the Council of Galicia on mental health. We think that's the basis where we're going to start attacking the problem. We are one of the communities with the highest consumption of psychopharmaceuticals, with these rates at the head of the state in suicide index and with an increase in those cases diagnosed in adolescence and childhood. In addition, we continue to find ourselves with something as basic as that barrier, that wall of armed concrete which means the lack of accessibility, if we talk about mental health, in the health system. Beyond, therefore, the educational field, which we need to strengthen, because there are many of these problems and indicators of this X-ray that we are talking about today. But unfortunately, we remember that for any gales and gales, young girl, child, adult or not, mental health today here in our community is not a real right. And if there's no access to a psychologist or a psychologist for the model or the system they keep from the People's Party, despite the great professionals we have, with those unbearable expectations and that lack of resources, that's where we need to get to work -- we insist -- urgently. We believe that every debate around mental health is constructive and necessary. In recent times, we have made tremendous progress in terms of the visibility of the social magnitude of this problem and also the elimination of stigmas of people suffering from mental illness, the possibility that we all have of suffering or that we suffer from at some point in time. And all the call of attention, all that debate we think is necessary and positive. But there's an obvious problem, which is that no solutions are being sought. Here are those data that we don't have to abound and insist, but they're certainly worrying, especially as far as age is concerned. And that's why we introduced today this need not to lose sight of where we need to act and put resources without further delay, which is in public health. We also share that the global problem is health, is social and is educational, with increased cases of eating disorders, anxiety, depression, self-elasive behaviors in childhood and adolescence, increased and shot beyond the beginning of the pandemic. We also find behavior problems, additions to substances, to the Internet, which in the face of lack of response and care and prevention in public health flourishes in schools. And we share that public schools need better response and attention to this student and with resources, and without resources and with cuts they can't do it. Nor is inclusive or quality education guaranteed. And yesterday we even insisted and, for example, the People's Party voted against the motion presented by this parliamentary group on the need to continue to cover teachers' casualties whenever they are less than ten days; do not wait, do not leave the classes with this difficult situation that we are talking about and that they move to the centers, because whole classes without a substitute until fifteen days. So in this context as delicate as what we're talking about, we have to give answers cross-sectionally, but -- we insist -- without losing our focus. We need the Education Council to strengthen the guidance departments, to plan with the centres towards the next course to give a proper and quality response to that student, who has not ceased to increase, with special needs. And we also need good coordination with public health, which is the one that must give in the case of mental health problems an axile and effective response, counting on hospital and outpatient devices and specific spaces for children and children. We have to focus, if we talk about mental health, the situation transversally, but with protagonists in a health perspective and, additionally, in addition to education, also social. From that point of view, this parliamentary group — also through our spokesperson, Mrs Ortega — has brought to this Parliament little urgency to also introduce in the political agenda and in the debate the negative impact, for example, on technologies in children and on different types of disorders. New technologies bring a lot of benefits, it's a great advance for our society, indisputably, but evidence is also warning us that there is another side of the coin, which are these negative consequences of the problematic use of technology: sedentaryism, addition, behavioral changes, impact on mood or mental illness, the index of suicidal ideation. The incidences of practices such as sexting, grooming with abusive adults, cyber-acoustics, adding online games, sometimes lack control of mothers and parents, which often lack tools to control and minimize those risks. It is therefore also essential that the Galician Union itself, in collaboration with the universities, with the social agents involved, as well as with the professional schools in the field, as we have claimed in this Parliament, also bets on a powerful preventive, transversal and resourceful plan to be able to implement it from the point of view of the Social Policy Council. Therefore, first of all, to strengthen public health in the field of mental health; to act from Social Policy with resources in prevention, because it is also directly related a percentage of the increase in mental health problems in youth and children, such as depression and anxiety, by the increase also in inequalities, and, like not?, the educational centres that need resources — as we said too — to be able to cope with this situation so worrying, whether they are more or less serious cases derived from mental health or — as we say — other problems. And the truth is that it's absolutely disappointing to see how the People's Party doesn't get into reason on such basic issues, if we talk about mental health of children and youth, and because they're not aware that these waiting lists are insatiable, the spaces between sessions, as they don't listen to the and the professionals of psychology and psychiatry, who warn of this lack of effectiveness of treatments when waiting lists become eternal. As much as they like rankings, being the first and the first in consumption of anxiolytic antidepressants, in number of suicides, and looking forward as if nothing is absolutely unjustifiable. We end by insisting that it is necessary to act, yes, in the educational field, specifically, and strengthen, yes. But if we talk about mental health, we can't stop putting debate and effort into public health. And the formula we think that, in a coordinated and transversal way, care, detection and treatment must be in health care, in the professionals of matter, at the same time that we do not leave professionals, teachers and teachers and those guiding departments of the educational centres, who are asking for planning and strengthening towards the next course before the increase — we insist — exponentially of the student with special needs. For our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that mental health is a subject that transcends a particular ideology, and I think that all groups in this House have a deep concern about the increase in cases from the pandemic. The truth is that we should reach a certain consensus in order to avoid using this issue in a biased manner. There has already been a commission where the Galego Nationalist Bloc already knows the position of the Union and also of this parliamentary group, because so they were transferred by the Secretary General of Education in the commission last March the measures planned by the Galician Union to address mental health problems in the educational community. The truth is that today's society has to face new social and coexistence challenges, such as mental health, such as gender violence, inequalities, etc. And, of course, I share 100 percent with the spokesman of the Socialist Group, which must be from an integral, cross-sectional and multisectoral approach. Because of the importance and sensitivity of this subject, I would like to appeal to a reflection of all to avoid falling into the temptation to turn educational centers into magic tools with the ability to solve all the challenges of an increasingly complex world. The education system is actually not alien to social reality and can't be held by arms. In this line, the education and health councils have been working together for a long time and are involved in the care of child mental health surveillance. Because when we talk about mental health we talk about people and, as is clear, people can be different ages and they can develop their lives in different areas and in different circumstances. We're talking about a health issue, a complex and very sensitive matter, a matter that is not, strictly speaking, a matter that is not an exclusive issue of the education system, although it may have a bearing on it, because in teaching, in fact, there are people. The Health Council approved the Mental Health Plan of Galicia poscovid 2020-2024, which addresses mental health care for children and adolescents, and is also working on prevention of suicide in Galicia. This is a plan in which the Education Council collaborates and which has an budget of EUR 83 million, compared to the 100 million that the State has throughout the country. This will allow the incorporation of new professionals and the increase in the number of health care centres and programmes to mental disorders. The Mental Health Plan therefore has this collaborative and interdisciplinary approach among the different administrations that can contribute something to improve and solve this situation. It is a plan that dedicates its fourth axis to mental health in childhood and adolescence, with the aim of predicting and identifying mental disorders in a timely manner; to implement new care programs to severe mental disorder infant andjuvenil and to promote accessibility to mental health teams. A plan that is developing prevention and early care programmes by focusing on children and collectives subject to traumatic experiences, strengthening outpatient units of mental health infantewuvenil — already created by Vigo and the Coruña — creating a specialization unit for children and adolescents at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, with the progressive staffing in the health areas of hospitals of day-to-day infantewuvenis, established by Vigo, Santiago and Ourense, forming reference teams for attention to neurodevelopment disorders. The implementation of an early detection and intervention program in addictions, including alcohol, cannabis and gambling. Assemade, in the health issue, the Guide for Preventing Suicide Conduct has been updated. He's working on the guide for self-injury management. And on the other hand, the Education Council faces the situation from a positive approach, thinking of good coexistence, well-being, through the Plan of emotional well-being and the design of a new strategy of school coexistence 2025, which, Mr. Lourenzo — as you well know — was extended by the pandemic in 2021. The Greek education system reacted and was able to face with guarantees the situation derived from the pandemic and, as always, it was able to count on the resources needed at every moment. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has been one of the first autonomous communities to focus on and set specific tools for schools to contribute to their diagnosis and treatment. Many initiatives have been carried out in this regard. For example, from the legislative field, we were Spain's first community in 2011 to pass a law on school coexistence. In 2015 it was promoted through a decree that centres have educational materials and resources that enable them, among other things, to empower emotional education. The February 8, 2021 Order regulates the attention to diversity, and it also devotes itself to the social and emotional development of the student. Since the 2017-2018 course we have a Protocol for the prevention, detection and intervention of suicide risk in the educational field, which has just been updated in the School Alert Programme, which provides a faster way of derivation. Programme contracts were launched to support centres for the development of emotional competences and for the improvement of school climate, with a large welcome, for example, on the Convive line, where 309 centres are currently participating, and on the Emotionate line 285 centers are participating. The responsible Programme of Action promotes communication and improvement and coexistence. 71 centres are currently participating, almost 9,000 students and 735 teachers. Besides, since February 2021, there's also an emotional welfare plan. I know you may not like it, Mr. Lourenzo, but you are a pioneer in Spain. It presents an integral strategy to deal with emotional problems arising from the pandemic situation. And through this initiative, interventions are proposed in three phases, focusing on detecting and accompanying emotional well-being in educational centres, for strengthening resilience and emotional competition, and for consolidating and planning and organizing the course 2020-2021. Even so, it includes twenty-four different educational activities at the disposal of centres for the achievement of objectives, as well as detection and evaluation mechanisms. The commitment of the Education Council to a particularly vulnerable student is indisputable. In fact, in the last ten years, the staff devoted exclusively to the attention of this collective has increased to 48%. And it should also be noted that in specific guidance teams there are currently 30 professionals of different specialties, six specialties in behavioural disorders. Galicia has a network of mentors at least pioneer within the framework of the state. It has nine hundred mentors in educational centres. And, as already known, the Council is working on the design of this new school coexistence strategy 2025, in which a specific line is collected aimed at alleviating harassment and cyber harassment, within which the design of the I Plan of Combating School harassment is framed. And so will the revision and updating of the School and Cyber-Care Protocol this year 2022. In any case, that roadmap will have among its main axes, on the one hand, the prevention of conduct contrary to coexistence through early identification. And for this it is key to the training not only of teachers, but also of families, because in the course of 2020-2021 there were one hundred and fifty-six activities, in which more than five thousand people participated. And measures will also be promoted that promote the proper use of new technologies, to prevent negative behaviors in these spaces, and will continue to work on the care of emotional well-being. And in this sense, it will seek to improve the social and emotional competences of the student. And they will also make available to the educational community conflict resolution strategies that favor the creation, maintenance and repair of relationships. Even so, focus will be placed on positive coexistence behaviors and bet on an integral vision of coexistence, as experience shows that negative behaviors in most cases exceed the school area, as they also affect family and personal life and social environment. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group and the Galician Union hear and are very concerned about this problem, and they also put in place tools to be able to support professionals in the field of education. We must remember that we are the community of Spain that most teachers have with regard to their number of students. That means there's a clear and unprecedented bet on public education and quality education. In addition, mental health is satisfied with sufficient resources and with a model of specific reinforcement projects, far more ambitious than you propose on this initiative, Mr. Lourenzo. Because you have to work on a model, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group told you, and not a series of proposals that you made in this LNP. And in this serious and rigorous line, you're working on the Galician Union, and we're still open to increasing public service provision, but the problems of this kind, because, indeed, it's a demand for society, you have to do them through rigorous approaches and try to escape certain headlines, which, in some ways, seem to come looking for you here today. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u64	Thank you, Mr. Roder. The high school students of IES Pedro Floriani of Roundola, Pontevedra are with us today. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to the teachers who accompany you! And now you have the floor by the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group Galego the author of this non-law motion, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u65	Well, few times they shake your legs more than when you're here for these Roundup girls and their teachers and friends. Welcome to Parliament, and welcome to talk about this initiative, where you were, teachers and students, pioneers, of which you are in some way at the heart. It's a pride to have you here; it can't be any other way. I believe, Mr. Rodeiro, that one of the problems we have when we talk about mental health, and that they are transferring all professionals, is precisely their taboo character. The difficulties we have in dealing with these issues by looking into this reality. And maybe that's why we're turning interventions into a topic, which we've seen with all the constructive and proactive will, interventions that have the ultimate aim of reaching agreements, negotiating what to negotiate, because on a sort of list of initiatives without being very clear that each one of them concludes. And when you come to tell us that we have a model, that's exactly what we care about: the lack of a model and the consequences of that lack of a model. Because it has been said that the resolution — which Mrs Otero also told us — that we bring here in this non-law proposal and it is not even the result of the BNG Group or this Member, is the result of the student — be done — and of the professor of one of the centres that is here today, of the Roundup Centres, who were the first to give the alarm voice in this country and who was a fire that sadly caught up later. So, therefore, since we're talking about modeling in meeting mental health needs, I would like you to tell us on the side of the Socialist Party — if you think, then we negotiated the possibility of reaching an agreement on the amendment — that part they disagree, at which point you disagree. [[Applause]] First of all, to develop a mental health care plan in the educational field that enables the centres to have the necessary personnel and resources. There is a plan of emotional well-being; just what we ask is that it is endowed with personnel and resources. That's what the centers are demanding. Second, equip staff guidance and resources departments. Don't we agree on this? Third point, equip specialists with existing specific guidance teams, strengthen specific guidance teams. Don't we all agree on that? Fourthly, to create multidisciplinary teams formed by professionals in the social, health, and the PSOE Group itself — I now know whether the People's Party — at the time supported the inclusion of figures in the educational centres as well as those of social educators. The final point is to draw up training programmes for teachers and families. So, therefore, these issues I think are perfectly assumable and, in some way, we can negotiate how to add, but I think I never as a replacement. And then when we were talking about this, Mr Roderio, that this is a question that must be addressed from the health problem or from the educational perspective, of course, that this is a cross-cutting issue and that health has a fundamental value. But let's do this: in places like Finland, beyond that it is true that this question of suicide exists in the Nordic countries — there is an article by João Paulo Machado de Sousa very close to it — but there is no problem that we have a delay in health care, there is a problem in the educational field and what they are inducing to focus precisely on the detection of centers. And that's the alarm voice the centers are giving. The Raogal network, which you referred to here, Mr. Rodeiro, are themselves saying that it is not operational, that it is unable to achieve coordination that reaches all the centers. And when we talk about you having a network of mentors, gentlemen of the People's Party, I want you to tell the student that we have here today, looking at them in the eye, if it's welcome that in this country in a center of thousands of students you can meet the mental health needs with a single guide to care for all those people. In cases, one, two guides, or centers with only one guide to attend to 11 suicide protocols. [[Applause]] That is what we have on the table, and that is what we propose on our initiative, which is agreed with the educational community and which, of course, we are willing to negotiate, to reach agreements. But what we ask of all groups is an effort of responsibility, because the data we have on the table, the urgency of the situation we have and, above all, the drama that hides the issue of mental health in adolescence forces us to do so. And because if we're not able to reach an agreement on such matters, you will tell me that we're going to be able to do it! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u66	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Do you understand that it's pending if you get into a transaction? Yeah, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Government of the State in relation to the prejudices that the fishing sector was subject to the deployment of marine wind installations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u67	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u68	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u69	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting the members of the Manifesto de Burela Platform who accompany us today, also thanking them for their presence here today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Burella Manifesto Platform, which includes fishing organizations and confrereries in the Northwest Cantabria, was born at the end of 2021 last year, and was interviewed with the various groups represented in this Parliament at the beginning of February this year, i.e. at the moment of their formation. At those meetings they sought the commitment of the various groups to support the content of the "Burella Manifesto" in the defence of the North-West Cantabrian fisheries sector and protect this sector from the location of marine wind installations in areas dedicated to fishing activity. The commitment at that time, in February, was obtained, and apparently obtained from the three groups, but today, the Galician Nationalist Block is not aware of the reasons that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party have been able to bring up the debate until now the proposal that the platform has drawn up and that today it is coming to this House at the initiative of the BNG. In his proposal, the platform, first, makes clear his concern about the situation that is being created for the effects of climate change on the planet in general and the marine environment in particular. Secondly, it clearly expresses itself in favour of the deployment of clean renewable energies and, in the case of the sea, whenever they are installed outside the fishing alleys and contain with impact assessments, at all levels, prior to their deployment. Third, he understands that marine wind power deployment projects on our coasts are not compatible with existing uses, nor with the scarce continental shelf of these coasts, nor with the richness of our ecosystems, nor with the preservation of biodiversity, nor with the maintenance of fishing activity. Fourth, he invokes, because of the great questions that still exist about the impact of marine wind on ecosystems, the precautionary principle, before proceeding to develop in our seas. Fifthly, it is against the paradigm that powerful pressure groups, with caution in many cases of administrations, intend to impose an industrialization of the sea as a source of renewable energy to the detriment of the production of sustainable and healthy food and to the detriment of the sector and fishing communities on our coasts, areas highly dependent on fishing, without the corresponding assessments on the impact of our ecosystems on that industry. Sixth, warn you of the irreversible damage that can be done to the ecosystem and, therefore, of the serious present and future impact that this would have not only in the fisheries sector but in society as a whole. Seventh, we are reminded that the European Parliament, in its report on the impact on the fishing industry of wind farms and other renewable energy systems, indicates that the red line that cannot be surpassed by the deployment of marine wind in the waters of the European Union is the impact of fishing opportunities and fishing activity, and that the whalers must remain free of marine renewable energy. Eighth, he states that fishing itself is already part of the solution to climate conflict and that the sea sector cannot be replaced by industries that affect their way of life and ecosystems that are detrimental to society as a whole and for the benefit of energy companies that have shown themselves to be far from the general interest and the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, these eight points are the ones that pick up the platform in the Bureau Manifesto. Eight points with which the BNG fully agrees, and besides, it assumes as its own, and that's why it brings them here today. There are eight points that perfectly describe the moment and reality in which we are and which lead to the platform seeking the agreement of this Parliament and therefore their support for: First, it is urged by the Government of the State from the United States to meet the contents of the Burrus Manifesto in the defence of the North West Cantabrian fisheries sector and to protect the fisheries sector from the threat that was the location of marine wind installations in wharfs and spaces devoted to fishing activity. Secondly, it avoids severe prejudice to the fisheries sector and the damage to marine ecosystems that would involve the deployment of this type of wind installations. Third, which assesses, through the Higher Council of Scientific Research and through the IEO, the impact of the installation of marine wind polygons on the fisheries resources and the working areas of the various arts and segments of the fleet operating in the Northwest Cantabrian alley and its effects on the economy of the Cantabrian fishing communities. Ladies and gentlemen, these three points make up the proposal, the decisive part of the LNP which the platform has given us to the three parliamentary groups. The BNG has not moved a coma -- not a comma! -- from the platform proposal, even though its members -- from the platform itself -- and the House groups know that our positioning was clear from the beginning and is contrary to the installation of marine wind farms on the coast of Galicia. Our position, that of the BNG, remains the same as we held in 2009 in this House and which has achieved a unanimous parliamentary agreement. However, we assume the platform proposal entirely without variation and without adding or removing anything at all. It was precisely other groups that broke up with this parliamentary consensus of the year 2009 and it is also those groups who today want to amend the platform proposal, not that of the BNG - the platform proposal -. Perhaps that explains why no group since February, except for the BNG, has registered or brought the debate, precisely the platform proposal. [[Applause]] We're not going into other considerations. To do so, to get into other considerations, we have brought in the recent past and we will continue to bring our own initiatives into the future. Today we debate, without removing or putting on a comma, the initiative of the Manifesto Bureaulla Platform. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that everyone can propose, as he has already done, as we have all done and all on other occasions, what he considers on this subject and has - each group we have - the possibility of presenting here our own initiatives, in the meantime that each one wants to print. Now, we think that what's about right now is speaking about the text that the platform has given us, representing hundreds of people, and that we commit ourselves to understanding that all groups, knowing, by the way, that the platform itself does not have the same possibilities to present the GNPs in this House that we have the others. It seems that all the groups present here support the manifesto, the text of the manifesto. We therefore understand that we must pronounce ourselves accordingly. We all know -- and we all -- of the interest that the platform has in getting unanimous support from this House, and we understand that that support should be shown to your proposal. The additions or modifications of the groups may be susceptible to objections by other groups and therefore we understand that the platform proposal is perfectly acceptable for all groups and can be supported. However, with all this that I have just explained, and I believe it to be clear, the BNG, as a means of transferring the platform proposal here today to this forum, will, of course, talk to the amenders and we will try to get this proposal out unanimously. Nothing else, president, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Patricia Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u71	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, President. We too, from the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, welcome the members of the Burrus Manifesto Platform in defence of the fisheries sector. Of course, we recognize his work and his contributions. But I can't help but be surprised by the intervention Mrs. Pérez made today. He came here to say that what we put to the vote today was that Manifesto of Burela that the platform itself had given us to the three parliamentary groups I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, that today the BNG had used this manifesto to defend its position. Because it is not true that this document... the platform would gladly present us to the three parliamentary groups representing this House, and surely that manifesto would come out, as they have presented us, unanimously from the House, but the BNG comes here today to break this agreement, because I am sure that if the manifesto had been so presented to us, that was what, today, the three groups -- I speak for my group, but I would dare to speak almost as well by the People's Parliamentary Group -- they would approve it unanimously. [[Applause]] I'm very sorry because today really the amendment that the PSdEG tabled is literally what the platform presented to us. And I'm going to read, Mrs. Pérez. You, at your second point, speak literally "of the proposal which today presents the debate of the Nationalist Block Galego." According to its GNP: "Avoid the severe prejudice to the fisheries sector and the damage to marine ecosystems that would have the implementation of this type of wind installations." Mrs. Pérez said, we don't move a coma. Maybe, like they didn't move, but they've deleted a lot of words, because I'm going to read... I don't know if we, the PSdEG Parliamentary Group, the Burella Manifesto Platform gave him another LNP so we could introduce it together. [[Applause]] I repeat, you present "avoiding severe prejudice to the fisheries sector and the damage to marine ecosystems that would involve the deployment of this type of wind installations." End of date. And now I'm going to read what the platform introduced to us: "Avoid the severe prejudice to the fisheries sector and the preservation of marine ecosystems that could be implanted..." The platform speaks of "disordered implantation", you don't want any kind of implantation anymore. I know it's not for nothing, it's not for the marine wind, it's messed up or it's ordered and responsible. But that's the BNG positioning, don't come here to say that it's the platform positioning. And I continue to read, because the platform initiative continues: "Avoid the severe prejudice to the fishing sector and the preservation of marine ecosystems that would have the disordered deployment of these types of wind installations and, consequently," — which is completely forgotten by the Nationalist Block Galego — to ensure their coexistence with fishing activities, whenever possible, without affecting the marine ecosystem and fishing activities." Is this the articulate that introduced the platform to the BNG? Yes or no? [[Mr. Otero Rodríguez shows a document.]] Because at least that's what he introduced us. So, don't come here today the Galego Nationalist Block - and I am very sorry that they broke that agreement that could go out unanimously if this initiative had led to this platform of the Burela Manifesto - to use the eight points of the manifesto. It's true, he literally read us, he took the literal exhibition part of the manifesto, but when it was the resolution part he adapted it to the position that the Nationalist Block Galego has on the theme of the marine wind. Therefore, they do not fail to respect this House and, above all, they do not fail to do so with respect to the Signers of the Manifesta de Burela Platform. Because, Mrs Pérez, if you want to reach this agreement unanimously, you accept our amendment of substitution, which is not the amendment of this parliamentary group, the amendment is based literally on what the Burly Manifesto has presented to us. It is true that the second point they presented to us was removed, that need for them to be received by the Ministry, because the platform subscribers themselves said that this was already achieved. So our amendment itself is literally the Burly Manifesto. If you want to reach that agreement, I think you should accept the amendment. I am very sorry, Mrs Pérez, that I had come here today to use the Manifesto de Burela to defend the thesis of the Galician Nationalist Block concerning the marine wind, which we know is not for the no, or not for the no! Because you are not even able to say, because, well, at the last point, scientific reports are necessary, it is necessary to have data to see if the installation of that floating marine wind -- which we are now talking about floating marine wind, not anchorages -- has an impact on the marine environment and the fishing sector. [[Applause]] We agree that more reports are needed, through the CSIC, through the IEO and other organisms, if possible. But there are necessary reports, there is a need for data; and we also consider it essential that, in addressing this debate — which we cannot see as being open in the European Union — on the installation of marine propellers, also Spain, and of course Galicia cannot stand out. But what we understand is that it is essential to take account of the participation of the sectors that may be affected, and mainly — and here in Galicia — the fisheries sector must be involved in this debate. It is essential that the fisheries sector participate in the debate of the marine wind. In Galicia, of course, we have technical knowledge in the naval industry, and we also have a good position. It is true that the sea wind can be a great industrial opportunity, but we believe — and I repeat — that all sectors — and in particular the fisheries sector — must be present in these debates on the deployment of this energy. This renewable development should not, for example, compromise food production — as the Paris Agreement reminds us — so we need all sectors — and I repeat, particularly the fisheries sector — to be added to the discussions on the deployment of this energy. Also — and yesterday the Central Government Fisheries Bill came out too — in Article 29, it is said that these facilities which can be carried out in both outer and inland waters will need preliminary reports from the Ministry of Fisheries itself. It is true that the debate on marine wind has already been discussed by the three groups, but the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group is relatively short; and we have reached an agreement between the People's Party and the PSdEG. Because it is true that we added that it should be very clear that in the development of the marine propeller it should be guaranteed: whenever there is no damage to fishing activities and the marine ecosystem is preserved. Of course, the Galician Nationalist Block, outside, because no, we said no. Then we'll see if that coexistence is possible with those reports and that data, but at first, they say no. The European Union itself is saying that more reports are needed to know the impact of this energy on the marine ecosystem, on fishing activity, but the Galician Nationalist Block already has an 80-page report that is solid and powerful and that says it affects. So, you, of course, are absolutely opposed to everything. But to me what really hurts today is that they tried to fool this House, tried to trick the Signers of the Blueprint Platform and tried to use that document to defend the theses of the non-Nationalist Block Galego. If you want to reach that agreement today, because you accept our amendment because it's like that. Another thing is that the Burella Manifesto signers had given us another document, but their will, so they moved us, was even to present a joint PNC of the three parliamentary groups. And you come here today to use the exhibition part, but, in the resolution part, it adapts it to the positioning of the Galician Nationalist Block. They can bring the initiatives they want to defend their position against everything that is wind energy, they're right, but they don't use a document prepared by people in the sector to come here, say it's the Burella Manifesto, and tomorrow they're out saying: no, it's that the PSdeg opposes what they're asking for in the Burela Manifesto. No, we don't oppose, we share it; in fact, we present it through that amendment. So, Mrs Pérez, I have a lot of affection for you, but I deeply regret the intervention you have made today, using, using, and twisting that non-law proposition that they presented to us to adapt it to the positioning of the Galician Nationalist Block. We know we don't share that position of the Galician Nationalist Block. We do not oppose the wind, we do not oppose the marine wind, but, of course, we do ask for participation in the sector; of course, we do ask for greater reports; of course, we do ask that wind, including the marine wind, to be carried out in a responsible manner. And, of course, at no time did you mention that these two sectors could coexist. I don't know, in the end, whether they can coexist or not -- whether I'm not a specialist in matter -- but what you really need is more reports, not to say no more by no means, and that they oppose everything that is less polluting energies, renewable energies... and the worst thing, Mrs. Pérez, is that today they tried to manipulate and twist that document that they presented to us. It is that, if that was how the document they presented to us, I was sure that I would go ahead unanimously with this House. I am so sorry that you broke this possible agreement today for the personal interest of the Galician Nationalist Block. And if they want to come to an agreement, they accept the amendment we tabled today, which is literally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u73	...—this is literally—with all the commas and all the words, which presented us with the Burly Manifesto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u75	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u76	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u77	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a greeting from the People's Parliamentary Group to all members of the Burella Manifesto Platform for the defence of the fisheries sector. Mrs. Otero, I have signed your words from beginning to end. The truth is, we're already used to having the Galician Nationalist Block do things like this, like trying to transmit on an initiative the impact of the marine wind in the fishing sector, but in a way torturing, because it manipulated the manifesto that was delivered to all groups. Before explaining our amendment, I would like to explain the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on marine wind and on the actions carried out by the Government of Galicia since a year ago an initiative of my group, defended here by Mr Tellado, and to which you, as always, lords of the Galician Nationalist Block, voted against. Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, that for this group — as well as for the Government of Galicia — the sea wind represents an opportunity, and we would not consider its support if other key sectors in the Greek economy, such as the fishing sector, were adversely affected. Therefore, for the People's Parliamentary Group, it is essential to promote marine wind in Galicia by the hand of the industrial sector, by the hand of the maritime-fishing sector and by the hand of the entities and organizations linked to the marine wind itself. And we cannot of course, ladies and gentlemen, to favour one sector drastically affect another; the idea, ladies and gentlemen, is that both activities can be compatible. [[Applause]] And of course, marine wind technology has evolved a lot since 2009, Mrs. Pérez, in the year 2021, and more of the floating sea wind, than at that time it didn't even exist. And if before copper 19 the importance of the progress of the deployment of renewable energy was key to reducing the effects of climate change, after the crisis of the coward and the Russian invasion in Ukraine, it is more evident that it is necessary to move forward towards an energy autonomy that ends with the dependence on Russian gas and oil — I suppose they will agree with this, gentlemen and ladies of the BNG, that it is not dependent on Russian gas and oil. Recently, the European Union has published the RePowerEU Plan, which aims to rapidly reduce the dependence on Russian fossil fuels and accelerate the green transition, in which it says exactly: "Eolic energy" — and, in particular, the marine — "represents an important opportunity for the future. Resources are stable and abundant, and public acceptance is greater, much greater." Europe is already a leader, ladies and gentlemen, in marine wind, and by 2020 the marine windhouses have left more than 28 billion euros in investments. There are 118 wind farms in European Union countries, such as Germany, Norway, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Portugal, Greece and also in the United Kingdom. And, no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia relies on knowledge and the potential to boost this technology, always - always - compatible with the marine environment, and that it would be all a revolution for our economy and our employment. And Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has leading companies in the manufacture of floating platforms, so we're in a position more than privileged to be part of the industrial expansion that this sector needs. The job that is generated, ladies and gentlemen, is quality employment from the beginning to the end of the whole project; and besides floating technology represents the singularity of its strong export character, so it offers a very important competitive advantage for those companies that can be positioned on the world market. Galicia, once again, I knew how to anticipate. And the People's Parliamentary Group — as I said at the beginning of my speech — brought to this Parliament an initiative a year ago on the marine wind, which you have rejected — as always — but reached an agreement with the Socialist Group; whose main agreement was to set up an observatory, the Observatory of the marine wind, where the industrial sector was, but also the marine-fishing sector, in order to promote specific environmental and socio-economic studies for Galicia that would analyse the impacts that could cause the deployment of offshore parks on our coast; and, of course, — I insist — from respect for the marine environment and fishing. Mrs. BNG spokesperson, after a year, this observatory is working and consists of a very broad representation of the whole of the Welsh fishing sector, as well as of the entire industrial sector and of the different departments of the Galician board of three advisors, such as the Environmental Council, the Sea Council and the first Vice-Presidentship, now. The Observatory's performances have been distributed into three working groups and already have eight meetings of the different groups, with two meetings from all over the Observatory's plenary. One of the results of the work of this observatory was to transfer a common claim to give the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Reto the need for the compatibility and coexistence of any wind development in Galicia with fishing activity. And the work of this observatory, ladies and gentlemen, which despite the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, has recently been recognised by the plenary of the European Parliament, which adopted on 3 May a resolution on the blue economy, which is justly collected in its paragraph 65, and which I shall read: "The European Parliament welcomes initiatives such as the Observatory of the Marine Wind, a forum set up by the regional Government of Galicia to identify opportunities and reconcile uses of the sea that can compete with each other, bringing together the industrial sector, the marine-fishing sector and the associated entities and organizations". Mrs Pérez Fernández, I thank the European Parliament for the work of the entire Government of Galician Union for fighting, for encouraging the marine wind, but always from respect for the fisheries sector and the marine ecosystem. [[Applause]] I'd like to make two things clear. First of all, all offshore wind farms are processed and authorized by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, that is, by the Government of the State. Secondly, that the State Government has not yet approved the maritime space management plans it has in processing and that will delimit those areas where the installation of such projects is to be possible. So as long as zone planning is not approved, you cannot locate projects and you cannot, Mrs. Pérez, evaluate any specific project type. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the development of offshore wind should take place step by step and always under maximum transparency and consensus between the industry and the fisheries sector; that is the highest priority of the Galician Union. For all this, Mrs Pérez — at the beginning of my speech — I will explain to you the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. The People's Parliamentary Group has registered an amendment because what you have said here is that you have literally transcribed the Manifesto of the defense of the fishing sector, the Butterfly Manifesto, it's not that. And at the first point, in our amendment, we add the missing part that you have mentioned here also the spokeswoman of the Socialist Group, Mrs Otero. We tabled an amendment in which the first point would be: "To heed the contents of the Burrus Manifesto in the defense of the North-West Cantabrian fisheries sector. Protecting the fisheries sector from the threat that was the location of marine wind installations in wharves and fishing spaces." And he adds — and it is in the Burly Manifesto —: "Therefore, to ensure its coexistence with fishing activities, whenever possible, such coexistence, without affecting the marine ecosystem and fishing activities." Without this final sentence, Mrs Pérez, the global text is meaningless, and the main element of the position with the sector would be missing. We kept his third point as the second point of our amendment. And if we were to change its second point, which would be as follows: "If possible damage is found, avoid prejudice to the fishing sector and damage to marine ecosystems that would have been implanted by this type of wind installations. We understand that it is not possible to point out, as you say, severe damage before having the reports, and then ask for reports when it is incongruent, Mrs Pérez; it is that it is totally incoherent. So you have to analyze your potential impacts and then act accordingly. Both issues, which I think we are asking for here, are congruent; in addition, it is recently stated by the sector not meeting Expomar, of Burela, of May 19, where 18 fishing entities pointed out that "The sector does not oppose renewable energies, but requires that the planning of marine spaces take into account both the socio-economic importance of the sector and the need for the protection of our ecosystems. That is why we demand that any decision on the implementation of the marine propeller should be paralyzed until we have a mapping of the fishing stocks that gives us the best information on the possible environmental impact. Fishing and ecosystems cannot be sacrificed." Look, I think, Mrs Pérez, that our amendment represents the absolute feeling of the fishing sector, and I also believe that it completes the amendment tabled by Mrs Otero, of the Socialist Group; therefore, I hope that we can reach an agreement and that this initiative, as you well said, would go out unanimously, but unanimously with the feeling that the sector introduced it to the Bureau Manifesto. If they do not accept, we will ask for a point vote, and if they do not accept a point vote, this People's Parliamentary Group will make a non-law proposal with the full text — full! — of the Burella Manifesto in defence of the fisheries sector. That's the proposal from this group. [[Applause]] And to finish, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is prepared to start a path, which is the path of sustainable industry, industrial competitiveness and employment, the hand of consensus among all the agents involved and under the principle of compatibility between wind development and environmental protection and fisheries; a consensus for what was precisely constituted the Observatory of the Marine Wind, the mandate of this Parliament. We won't be tired of repeating it as often as it takes: Galicia is knowing how to anticipate it, positioning itself from the very first moment to view this challenge as an opportunity, since most Greeks and Greeks, lords of the Galego Nationalist Block, do not share the negationist position that defends its group and that opposes any energy development in Galicia, even if it is renewable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u79	And we have no other priority, ladies and gentlemen, than to guarantee the development of this technology from balance, compatibility with fishing activities and preservation of the marine ecosystem. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. What we deeply regret, deeply, is the attitude that we have just heard and seen here, we are the people who are part of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Otero, it is the first time in two years - the first time in two years - that I see this hostility. And, of course, you lead me to think, Mrs. Otero, that you've found a nail burning to hold on to to justify that they're sharing the argumentary of the People's Party. I think that might be your problem. [[Applause]] However, Mrs. Otero and Mrs. Novoa, I would also like to tell you something, because, of course, it will now seem here that we brought something here that is absolutely inconceivable, that cannot be supported and that a meteorite will fall and destroy us all before even the marine windmills come. That's not it, let's put things in their place. Someone -- no, no, Mrs. Otero and Mrs. Novoa -- will have to explain it here, because, of course, the Nationalist Block Galego -- and particularly me -- will not stay here for a liar. Mrs. Otero, calm down. I think all things have an explanation. Your argumentation and your intervention here also has an explanation, and I just gave it to you. Of course, you probably don't like this argument. But look, in any case, I said in the first intervention that I would not enter into other considerations and that, of course, I would put all the efforts that were needed to reach an agreement. And that's how I'm going to do it. But, look, in any case, you will have to explain why of three proposals here - the amendment of the PSOE, the amendment of the People's Party and the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego - none is equal - none! - if it turns out that we all take the text of the Bureau Manifesto as a basis. Why isn't it the same? Why do you suppose, Mrs. Otero, that yours is the one who is right above all things? Mrs. Otero, I have it here too, I have it here too! So, really, I think this is an absolutely sterile debate and I think we basically agree with the proposal. And I said it at first, it wasn't the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, we brought others here. Speaking of cracking, we haven't seen here breaking anything at all. The breakers were precisely the People's Party and the Socialist Party when they added to the car of what the People's Party was proposing, precisely to end that unanimity in 2009. Mrs. Otero, we have a position, and we defend it with all the consequences. It's harder for you, I understand. The People's Party doesn't, because it goes to the breast discovered, as it is usually said. You have to flag, and I can understand it. Now, we have no problem defending our proposal. Information? We can make reports. There's a lot left to do. And indeed, the fishing sector itself is still complaining today that they continue to be doing, and we agree. Now, everyone here has drawn from the reports that everyone has had to give them precisely to defend their positions. Of course, because a few days ago the European Union itself in the same month of May has just issued a resolution in which it clearly speaks, precisely — you did not mention that — that the pre-eminent activity is that of the fishing sector. But there is, besides, Mrs. Novoa, an incoherence -- and I tell you because it was in your intervention where it was said -- between what you're going to say here and what you say agrees with the platform manifesto. Yes, there's inconsistencies -- I don't want to call it something else, I'm just going to call it inconsistencies -- Of course, the theme is: if we say that you are working, that you believe that fishing on the Greek coasts is compatible with the fishing sector, we are contradicting what you say you support, which is one of the points of the manifesto I read before, textual, where you say they are incompatible. Then everyone who clears up. We've got it clear. And it's not, Mrs. Otero, as always, not for the not. No, no, no. Every time we defend a posture, of course, we have a few arguments. You may not like them, but don't call them "not for nothing." Because we are still self-sufficient, precisely... in today's day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And who was it or who was the one who didn't do it for you, Mrs. Novoa, when Mr. Tellado brought this initiative here, voted for it and the Socialist Party joined him, precisely breaking the unanimous agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u82	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u83	...of 2009. I'm done. I insist, I don't go in -- I said it at first -- in other considerations. If you want to agree, for us, of course, there will be no problem. But there are three different proposals on the table, eh! there are three proposals. You'll say: it's mine, it's mine, it's mine... to see who has to direct it. Let's take him to trial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u84	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u85	Home!, I think we are, precisely, at the headquarters where democracy resides and where the word has to be mastered and that, therefore, we can perfectly reach some agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u87	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u88	I understand you'll talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u89	I'll try to reach agreement with the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u90	That's right. Well, that would be interesting and reasonable. Let's see if we can reach that agreement. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialist of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members, on support for the Spanish Government's measures on the tightening of sanctions against the Putin regime and the holding of a call to the Russian President to put an end to the war
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u91	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u92	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Let me, before, and because of my obvious professional deformation, as a teacher, every time I detect a palmary error, see me in the obligation to try to correct that statement and thus re-examine the theoretical construct on which certain positions are argued. Look, all of us here, because we all study the general budgets of the Autonomous Community, we know that Chapter I refers to the overall staff costs, which, of course, include high positions, but also officials. I say this because it was firmly stated, and even distributed with documentary input of dubious consistency, the claim that the Government of the State costs 173 billion euros a year. And I've eaten your lords to examine the general budgets of the state and see how Chapter I is worth €19,229 million; therefore nine times less than has just been asserted here with force. I think it's a mistake to make any mistake, but it's not good to persist in that mistake, because I wonder if someone here would add the cost, for example, of the Infrastructure and Mobility Council to road maintenance, Galician Waters, etc., to say that this cost is the Counsellor's as much as the government staff. [[Applause]] And look, I couldn't talk about the snow kit in the car. Watch out! Luxurious maximum!, a portable fridge that plugs into a wick of those that carry the car! But well, that's the argument we have. [[Applause]] Let's get to the point, which is very important. I want to take a look at Mr. President's intervention in the control session. I find it regrettable to distort and underestimate this non-law proposal. He quoted Mr. President Putin several times in his reply, when we're talking about a very serious problem. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, on February 24, 91 days ago, Europe suddenly remembered its worst nightmares. After weeks of enormous diplomatic efforts — I repeat, enormous diplomatic efforts — by the European Union to ensure peace in Ukraine, the leader of a nuclear power decided to militaryly invade a neighbouring, free, sovereign and democratic region. I also speak insistently: free, sovereign and democratic. And he did it, as we saw in the media, cruelly and premeditatedly, without any event that triggered and, therefore, justified in some way that invasion. He did so by failing to fulfill his promises and commitments, thus demonstrating the null value that he gave them to those promises and to those commitments. And he did it, as we all could hear, with arguments that we can qualify as falsacs and that bring us echoes of that Europe which is the victim of authoritarian leaders, imperialist fantasies and historical hallucinations that we have created definitely surpassed on our continent. Since last February 24, the day that Russia started this invasion of Ukraine, we have witnessed a systematic violation of human rights in this country, and it's daily news that shows it. This scenario was designed by President Putin for many years. It was unthinkable for the Europeans who became aware of belonging to a common project that was attacked. In fact, the firm and united European response to Russia and international solidarity with Ukraine was believed to be two of the most serious miscalculations of the Putin regime in this war. We never think we'd see these horrible images of bombings and killings against innocent civilian populations again on European soil, because they are war crimes that cannot be unpunished, and our commitment must be firm. Spain and its public institutions are - because they must be - firmly committed to supporting Ukraine, in the same way as the state, the whole of Spanish society, which has, by the way, once again set an example of solidarity, because, as Ukraine's hope is in Europe, Europe's hope is now deposited in Ukraine and in the defence they are making of values and ideas of freedom, so that thousands of Europeans have given their lives seven decades ago. No one, no one wants the war of Ukraine; neither Ukraine obviously, nor the European Union, nor NATO, nor the international community. There's only one person here who wants that war. And despite Europe's rejection of war, it also has an obligation to militarily strengthen Ukraine against Putin in parallel with humanitarian aid to Ukraine and economic sanctions to Russia. It's about developing solidarity with Ukraine at the same time and strongness with Russia. And Spain's commitment is also made to defending the territory of the European Union and NATO, and the same is true at European level. The aggression of Putin - I believe, frankly, that is beyond doubt - has its origin in its fear that the democratic project of the European Union will begin to be demanded by the Russian population itself. That is why the response to this war and its economic consequences must come from European unity. Spain, along with its international partners, is fully committed, because we wake up from the speculism that, being the European Union a democratic power, we were free to suffer a war. We realize that this risk exists and we have to answer. We need to strengthen the European Union's common foreign defence policy, and Putin and the pandemic have reminded us that there is no region of the world, however well-developed it is, immune to the pandemics or to the war virus. Putin broke that Europe of times of peace and harmony built for more than seven decades, because he feels the existence of democratic Europe as a threat. And in the face of this unjustified attack, Europe has to prove its best version; Europe united in its values of peace, social justice, freedom, democracy and solidarity. The Socialist Party of Galicia, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is a non-war party, and even more so when wars are unfair and illegal. And that's why we opposed the war of Iraq in 2003 and opposed the war of Putin in 2022. Coherence, ladies and gentlemen, is the source of identity and credibility; we oppose ourselves and we continue to oppose any imperialist aggression, it gives the empire that promotes it. And we have to remember some data. Today there are over six million refugees, over seven million displaced persons and up to May 11 - the latest updated data by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights - 3,541 dead civilians and, of course, thousands of soldiers from both sides also deceased; estimated reconstruction costs of EUR 566 billion. It is necessary, without making a drama, to explicitly mention that, within this exodus of civil population, there are women, children and children in a very precarious and vulnerable situation, which makes them victims of aggression and or sexual violence. Because we must remember that it is a resolution of the United Nations Security Council that recognizes that such rapes and other forms of sexual violence may constitute a war crime, a crime against humanity or an act of genocide. And I repeat, it's not about instrumentalizing tragedies, it's about reality and it exists. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe that we have been building over seventy-two years of peace on a continent historically torn apart by armed conflicts we know, with our lights and shadows - it is also necessary to recognize it - it is a Europe of well-being and prosperity, never seen in our history, with a balance that is a model in the world of public freedom, economic progress and social solidarity. It takes more relevance than ever to Robert Schuman's statement when he said that Europe will not be done at all in a work together, but thanks to concrete achievements that believe solidarity in fact. So, ladies and gentlemen, we present our proposal not of law, which contains two points that they know perfectly well. First of all, call on Russian President Vladimir Putin to have him sit seriously at a negotiating table with Ukraine and immediately end this war. And secondly, to express support for the Spanish Government in the measures announced by the President of the Government on 5 April 2002, so that, in line with its European allies and within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance, it will continue to tighten up sanctions against the Putin regime, humanitarian aid and financial assistance, as well as the dispatch of military equipment, so that Ukraine can exercise its right to legitimate defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one final remark: it is not about supporting the Government of Spain as a Socialist Party; it is about supporting the Government of the State, the Government of Spain, as a member of a democratic European Union that defends those values that are being permanently attacked and put in question as a result of this invasion. Nothing else for the moment and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u94	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Now we greet the students of the 3rd ESO of the Sacred Heart Center of Jesus, of Ribadeo, in Lugo. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to its teachers. You have the floor now, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u95	Good morning to all and to all. Welcome to the Galician Parliament, the student of the Ribadeo Institute who accompanies us. I'm going to try to be as clear, as diaphany, as direct and as concrete as possible in the translation of the Galician Nationalist Block's stance on this issue that has to do with the war in Ukraine and the position of our organization in this direction. I am going to be, I insist, clear, diaphanous and concise on three issues with regard to this initiative; the first, on which is the position of the Galician Nationalist Block on war in Ukraine. And it was clear from the very first moment, from minute one. Because the war didn't start on February 24th; in fact, if you go and review UNHCR's figures, you'll see that about 854,000 people are displaced by the coup d'état and the subsequent war started in Donbás, Ukraine, southern Ukraine, since 2014; 854,000 displaced people, who are more than the city of Coruña and the city of Vigo, the two most populated cities of Galicia together. We, since that year, since 2014, after the Euromaidan coup d'état, at the beginning of the Donbás war, have long claimed the cessation of the fire and the violations of fundamental and human rights that have been perpetrated in that country, the respect of trade union freedom, the non-illegalization of political parties, the peaceful resolution of the conflict by the sole and exclusively diplomatic and political means, the respect of the Minsk agreements, the first and the second, so many times unfulfilled, without the slightest interest in those who are inside and outside this House. Also, of course, since February 24, 2022, when this Russian military invasion took place; a flagrant, unjustifiable and unjustifiable violation of international law, beginning with the violation of the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the states, collected in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. We strongly and completely condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and the war, therefore, in this country, as we have always done; we have always done so with all the conflicts, with all the wars, with all the military invasions and all the bombings, was the invasive force that was, was the massacred people. Because Europe knows what it is to bomb its territory for twenty-three years, not seventy: Belgrade bombings - which I suppose will be Europe - in 1999 by NATO. You can ask Javier Solana, because he was the one who ordered NATO military forces to throw those bombs on that country. We know, unfortunately -- that is the most terrible of all -- on this old continent, for a very short time, less than I have been alive, which is to bombard and assault a people and a country: in Belgrade, in Liberia, the occupation of Iraq, the war of Afghanistan, we have been and we are against the Zionist genocide against the Palestinian people or the illegal occupation of Sahara by Morocco. [[Applause]] They could also take a look at the position that the Socialist Party had of treason to the people of Sahara, as it is the Spanish State that still has the power to administer international law. [[Applause]] We have been diaphaned and absolutely clear in our anti-military positions, always, always, without distinctions or equivalences, because the BNG doesn't differ, we don't differ between wars and people. In wars, gentlemen, the flags will change, the colors, but they always win and lose the same. They win the powerful, the great powers, the states and, above all, the big arms and energy companies, fundamentally, because behind the war in Ukraine there is a lot of economic interest about the energy future, not of Europe, but of the world. And they lose, we lose, the old ones, the people and the people, who put the dead on the table. Secondly, look, at the BNG we've been a peaceful organization since we founded in 1982. This year's 40th anniversary of our foundation. This is how the political thesis of each and every one of our national assemblies and the letter of political and ideological principles and BNG values are collected, perfectly accessible to those who want to see it on the Block website. I quote literally: "BNG is a peaceful force, for it understands as a priority the defense of world peace, the disarmament and dissolution of aggressive military blocks, and advocates the peaceful and democratic resolution of international conflicts." As a force of peace, never, never, in any case, will we support the military escalation, the supply and sale of weapons in a conflict or war; never, nor the Ukrainian people, nor the Palestinian, that I assure you that I would have so much or more reason to appeal to the legitimate defence after half a century of occupation and massacre by the State of Israel. There the international community, the so-called free world, the West, shuts up and gives. [[Applause]] Impunity to a state that kills journalists in full daylight, such as Abu Akleh, or that continues to occupy housing in Jenin or West Bank. Where is international law there? Where's West Help? What determines who is gunned down? What do you decide? Where does the legitimate defense lie and where does it not? You can answer that question. Why provide weapons to the Ukrainian people and not to the Palestinian or the Saharawi? We have made it clear that there is no justification in any case for supplying or selling weapons that feed and escalate conflicts and wars. For peace, wherever it is, is built with dialogue and not with weapons; peace is built with peace and not with war; it is built from multilateralism and international disarmament. [[Applause]] "Buying and manufacturing weapons is never the solution. The solution is to work together for peace. With the war, everything is lost. In a war there is no victory, everything is defeated. The response is not other weapons, other sanctions, other political-military alliances, but another approach, a different way of ruling the world, now globalized; a different way of establishing international relations." This -- which I also quote literally already in the language in which it was said so that there is no doubt -- is not BNG, but Pope Francis said it, which seems to make a lot more sense than part of this House. But even St. Peter's successor and heir was criticized, pointed and accused — as well as the BNG and as many other political forces along and wide the planet — of putinist, in this belligerent spiral where he points with his finger to accuse whom he dares to question at least the single thought. And that's the most dangerous thing from that point of view, from this side of the battle; that's the most dangerous thing at all: trying to criminalize and silence those who defend peace, to those who defend life or any idea a little bit different from which and how international order should be, and therefore the set of rules and laws that govern the world's many nations, peoples and states. And here I come in the third and last, because I'm also going to tell you one thing, Mr. Alvarez, you are braver in the press than in Parliament, because what we had to hear in public appearances, what we had to hear, here they didn't dare say, to justify this initiative. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We have been enduring, not weeks, but the last few months as war, Russian invasion and the Ukrainian people — the worst, the pain of the Ukrainian people — to attack the BNG, in an exercise of political lowness — I also mean here, and publicly express it — that is personally the worst I have ever seen and had to live here in my time. It's not all right, it's not all right. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I also want to tell you something -- that's enough to finish it. I think he's confused as an enemy who thinks that attacking the BNG will get something. And I repeat: I think he's confused as an enemy who thinks that attacking the BNG will get something. I tell you from the absolute respect we always have, but also from the absolute frankness and sincerity. There are a lot of people, Mr. Álvarez -- I'm sure, and even if they ask me, I dare say that for you it's an inconvenience -- in the PSdEG that doesn't understand what they're doing; they don't understand or share it. [[Applause]] I honestly think it's not a good business to copy the argumentary and the strategy of the right and the People's Party, make them fat broth, but everybody else! [[Applause]] We will not be diverted from the least of our goal, from our roadmap, which is, in this particular case — and focusing on what is the subject of debate — to defend peace; a multipolar international order based on cooperation, dialogue, solidarity among peoples, in which Galicia has, like any other nation and people of the world, the right to be and to have voice for itself. That's where they're going to find us, not elsewhere. As a group of punks — and so does someone — sang about Alcobendas, Madrid, Kaos Urbano: "no war between peoples and no truce between classes." We present a substitution amendment which was literally the object of unanimous agreement by the three political forces that we are represented today in this House, in the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela or in the Fegamp. We appeal to that will in unanimous agreement of clear and round opposition to any kind of war, to any kind of military invasion comes from where it comes from and always seeking, always, as the only way out for conflicts, the diplomatic route, dialogue, cooperation, peace and international law. We hope to reach an agreement. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I greet not the institute, but the Sacred Heart College, of Ribadeo, who accompany us today. Mr Álvarez — as a previous question — it is good that you come to defend here, as always, Mr Sánchez with the figures. It's true that our partner, Mr. Balsairo, first quoted a news source to give a data, and perhaps that journalistic source was wrong. But, well, if we go to other news sources, the truth is that Mr. Pedro Sánchez's government has increased the cost of advisers, ministries and so on. I mean, we're talking about the most expensive government in the history of Spain, with 22 ministries and at a cost — I insist — of 30% more in advisers. He's got a thousand peak advisors. Mr. Sánchez even has members of the Comedy Club among his advisers! He misses them! he misses them! because, to do the scripts of the smoke curtains that they do in Moncloa every day to cover up the disgrace of the Government of Spain, he misses them the Comedy Club and much more! [[Applause]] They have a battalion of advisers and a battalion of ministries. And you come here to defend that? Well, come on! Yesterday the European Commission warned Spain that it had to control the current expenditure because debt exceeds the level of prudence — says the European Commission — and they even have a cross-border relevance because it affects other countries of the European Union. Mrs. Rodil said the war didn't start on February 24. Well, throughout the press, or February 24th: "War in Europe", "Putin unleashes war in Europe", "War in Europe", "Putin takes Ukraine into blood and fire"... Well, a Greek newspaper, he didn't; he said: "Military intervention in Ukraine" -- these were the BNG—. [[Mr Prado del Río reads several press headlines and shows them to the members of the House.]] Well, on February 24, 2022, Russian military forces invaded the sovereign state of Ukraine, which is the largest conventional military attack in Europe in the last decades, in addition to a flagrant violation of international law and against the territorial integrity of a third country. The People's Parliamentary Group, the German Government, and I even believe that I can speak on behalf of the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks, we strongly and unambiguously condemn the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. From the very first moment, the main international institutions and countries of the world have advocated the immediate restoration of peace and the demand for the release of Russian troops from Ukrainian territory. [[Applause]] The invasion received a widespread international condemnation, to the point that the Resolution of the United Nations General Assembly in response to the Russian invasion was explicitly supported by 141 countries in 193 forming the UN. At European level, a historic step has also been taken, as has been the expulsion of seven Russian banks from the SWIFT banking interconnection system, as well as the adoption of a series of joint sanctions against Russia, as are other countries members of the Atlantic Alliance and the international democratic community. The aim of these measures was to pressure the Russian rulers to put an end to the conflict against these serious events, contrary to the peace and fundamental freedoms and rights of Ukrainian citizens. Galicia is close to the efforts being made by the European Union and the governments of the various member states, including the Government of Spain, demanding the restoration of international legality and peace. All this, having as a guide in this crisis the democratic principles and values and the protection of the fundamental rights referred to in the preamble to the Treaty of the Constitution of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Constitution. From Galicia and from the minute we have shown a complete willingness to collaborate in a humanitarian response coordinated with the Central Government in support of the Ukrainian people. In this sense, Galicia made available shelter facilities, specific spaces for paediatric patients and patients with oncotoxic treatments from this country and ensured the immediate schooling of Ukrainian children at school age. Today there are 651 Ukrainian refugees enrolled in 243 educational centers in Galicia. The invasion did not cease; it took four months yesterday from the beginning of the invasion. I will now enter Mr. Álvarez's proposal. Mr. Álvarez, point 1 let me tell you it's very surprising. I'm going to read it literally to avoid false interpretations: "The Galician Parliament agrees to call on the Russian President Vladimir Putin to sit down seriously at the negotiating table with Ukraine and put an end immediately to the war." He's surprised for two reasons. First, well, I don't know if the PSOE is on the mountain, it makes its independent partners, and now it wants autonomous communities to drive — and the German Parliament in this case — international peace negotiations. Well, tomorrow there's a very international summit between Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Pere Aragones. I don't know if the Socialist Party will also participate in that international summit. But it's even more surprising, Mr. Álvarez... this isn't funny, but, of course, let me think of this first point for me when I said "Is he the enemy?" Fuck off!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, I can't imagine Mr. Santalices calling the Kremlin to say, "Hey, Mr. Putin, could you stop the war for a moment? What time is it for you, Mr. Putin, to sit at a table to negotiate, but seriously? Well, I think we should be serious, Mr. Álvarez, and propose things that are a real possibility. And in that sense, the logical thing is that Parliament in Galicia is going to the Government of Spain or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make the necessary management, and to be serious about this approach. I think Galicia was loyal to the Government of Spain, and the People's Party too. They cannot blame us for the lack of explicit support and a position of State on this issue. On the contrary, the PSOE couldn't count on its government partners, he couldn't count on Podemos, he couldn't count on the independenceists, and he couldn't count on the BNG either. We all have in our retina Mr. Néstor Rego sitting, without applause, when President Zelenski intervened in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applause]] Even though it is only because he was the representative of a people he was suffering, who is suffering, an invasion, which is being titanically resisted against the Russian invasion, even though it is only in respect of the entire Ukrainian people, that Mr. Nestor Rego—representative and leader, true leader, of the BNG—had not stood up and applauded Mr. Zelenski is the true position of the BNG in this conflict. [[Applause]] You have nothing to do with the interests of the state, you can't count on the partners of that Frankenstein government, neither can you count nor can you trust yourself; that's the big problem, Mr. Álvarez. I don't need to remind you here of the dark conversations of Catalan independenceists with Russian secret services, or even confirmation of Russian interference during the elections in Catalonia, which sought to destabilize the country. Even the conversations between the fugitive Puigdemont and the Kremlin... well, here's someone who always talks about democracy and then it's the first anti-democratic who wants to shut up the voice of things he doesn't like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, you have to listen, you have to listen to what you don't like! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You have to listen! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We, Mr. Álvarez, think you can't trust your partners. And we have it here in this House, with BNG's veto on the institutional statement that this group proposed and had their support. And why didn't you go out ahead? Because the Galician Nationalist Block vetoed that institutional statement. That's what Mrs. Rodil was talking about. Because, of course, it's so bad for them that Russia invades a neighbouring country like NATO; they're obsessed with anti-Atlanticism, but I'm not saying it, they say it themselves. Look, this is a tweet by Mr. Rubén Cell — which is the right and left hand of his leadership — of January, before the war broke out: "We've just formed..." One thing is leadership and another is the true leader. Watch out, it's not the same... who commands is Mr. Rego... Calm down, calm down, quiet that, whoever commands, is Mr. Rego. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Leo: "We have just formed among different Greek organizations the Gallega Platform against NATO, gallizaacontraotan.gal, open to all those organizations who want it and subscribe to the foundation manifesto. You'll soon have more news of platform activity." Against imperialism, for peace and sovereignty - Putting on the same line the aggressors as the aggressors, placing the mutual defence Atlanticist treaty without fairness, that the aggressors, who, by violating any international law, decided unilaterally to invade a neighbouring country. The BNG bothers NATO more than Russia's imperialism with the countries in the orbit of the former Soviet Union. It bothers them to tell him, but you have a Soviet soul and that's why they couldn't accept the institutional statement we proposed here. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But today this parliamentary group is amending the same institutional statement. And we'll see if you can vote in favour of that... look, I think bad education has to be left out of the door. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u98	Mr. Rivas, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u99	Let her out of the door! I know they don't like us telling them the truth, but it's true, you're different from Democrats. They're different here from... yes, yes, they wear the costume of: we're not independenceists, we're sovereignists; and then Mr. Rego goes and tells them they're not, they're independenceists. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, said this, we presented a serious amendment in which we asked for the same thing as we asked when the war started...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u101	...and that he had the support of the Socialist Party. I hope to reach an agreement today. And I don't know if the Galego Nationalist Block, anti-imperialist and anti-Atlanticist, will be able to vote in favour of the initiative or will remain installed in its anti-imperialism and Sovietism. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Previously, Mrs. Prado, he changed his story to government cost figures. But, well, let's leave it there, which is not the subject of debate. [[Applause]] Look - by order of intervention - Mrs Rodil, I understand your speech and the need to find similarities, to go to other war conflicts, etc., but our initiative is about Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and that is what we intend to talk about exclusively. You say peace is built with dialogue and not with weapons. And we can share that statement. I wish it worked! I wish it worked! Because pacifists are all of us in theory, less when they attack us, because when they attack us, it's not productive, from the point of view of defending legitimate interests, trying to dialogue with the attacker. It's like this to him. You don't like them? [[Murmurs.]] Neither do I, but reality is that and it's not another. And look, you refer to NATO. But I wonder, within the European context, Albania, Germany, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, Slovakia, Slovenia, Estonia, France, Greece — I took a breath — Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Romania and Turkey – 28 of the states, which have a population of more than 578 million — are in that organization. And within these countries I have just mentioned, I believe that there are states that are all about not only European, but about the global social welfare and about the democratic regime and the rights of the population. And frankly, I believe that the recent request for the incorporation of Finland and Sweden, soon — I understand — of a debate of its political and social forces and of a serene and responsible assessment of the situation, of the security architecture in Europe, should also make it reflect on whether certain bellicist conceptions of a particular organization can reasonably be maintained in 2022. I honestly don't think so. And look, I'm going to make a personal confession: I didn't shoot a firearm in my life. I'm not a militarist. I would, of course, prefer dialogue, but unfortunately, within relationships, let's no longer say between states, but even at a personal level, there are times when dialogue is not enough. Frankly, your amendment, Mrs. Rodil, I think in points 3 and 4 equals both parts. Because in point 3 it says, "Calling all parties in conflict on the scrupulously respect of international law, human rights and working for the resolution of the conflict within the framework of the UN and OSCE." That's point 3. And point 4 says, "Request to all parties the return to the diplomatic route as the only formula to solve the differences to achieve lasting peace agreements." Do you really believe that there is equality in this conflict as regards the need to restore diplomatic dialogue, or do we know that there is one of the parties who has ignored all attempts at diplomatic dialogue that preceded that invasion? Do you really believe that this amendment can be maintained and equalised between Ukraine and Russia within the possibilities for resolution of this conflict? And look, Mrs. Rodil, the non-law proposition doesn't attack the BNG. I can understand that you have a complicated position on this matter, I can understand it, but it does not attack BNG; it defends Ukraine exclusively. That you have a complicated situation with regard to this area is a problem of the Galician Nationalist Block, it's not a problem of who wants to defend Ukraine. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, the non-law proposal contains the whole text, without changing words or words, which you supported in the Congress of Deputies. You can laugh at everything you want, take a picture of Gila and ask: Is he the enemy? But... Man! then, there will be no problem -- I say -- to support her here. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Another thing. This is not the first case - it is not the first, nor will it be the first - in which this Parliament has made reference to areas of international relations. But, well, we can all consult the hemerotheque. In any case, given the importance and transcendence of this non-law proposal, I commit to both parliamentary groups that we seek a transaction to bring forward a unanimous agreement with regard to the unfortunate situation of the people of Ukraine. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u104	Thank you very much. That's what we encourage you to do. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the performances that must be carried out at Junta de Galicia regarding the compliance of Law 17/2006, the book and the reading of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u105	There are amendments to the People's Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u106	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u107	Thank you, President. It's a shame that the student has already left, because today this debate is really about them and about them. We bring here again, after yesterday's session, another initiative with regard to the German book. See if we're more successful today than what happened to the Galician Nationalist Block yesterday. This morning Mr. Wheel spoke of concrete measures, and highlighted that idea. Today we have brought here concrete means, to see now that this compromise of realization, in particular the People's Parliamentary Group, is being fulfilled. The book sector in Galicia was recognized as strategic and priority because of its cultural, social and economic importance in the Law of the Book and the Reading of Galicia, a law that dates back to 2006. But the reality is, despite that, it's been a decade suffering from a multitude of problems, with remarkable declines in production, and also from reading rates in Galicia. It is also characteristic of this time, it made it a strong reduction in public aid, the absolute lack of campaigns to stimulate reading, the decline in aid to public libraries and the lack of support to libraries, just to mention a few issues that, as I said yesterday, have moved us, and it is also something that shares the whole associative fabric, the representation of the whole sector. From there it is framed on Book Day - which has already happened, as you know - and also on Galagas Letters Day - a week, by the way, that of the Galagas Letters, which coincided with the full investment of the President of the Board, Mr. Rueda, great lover, by the truth, of our lyrics, of our language and also, above all, of our toponymity, as everyone knows; after listening to this morning, we will have foreshadowed this question!, least two years are waiting for us! -... As he said, for those festivities of the People's Party these past two months, we have finally had to move today a demand for the whole book industry and also and, above all, for the citizenship of Galicia with this essential reading plan that we've been waiting for more than a decade, despite the fact that it seems that we've been writing from about a spell, as he said yesterday. And it's that our non-law proposition covers, as I say, first, the cultural sector of the country, but the reality is that it's much more than that, much more than that. Because a people who read it is a free people, and that is what we should aspire to as public representatives that we are: to guarantee the freedom of each and every one of us as citizens and as citizens, to foster the critical spirit, discursive capacity, to arm ourselves with culture in the most global sense of the word. And that's what the books are going to do, indisputably. That is why we are talking about something that already goes beyond a cultural sector in this case, but we are talking about something quite more important. It must be clarified — certainly — at this point that this initiative, as I have already stated before, is not an occurrence of this Socialist Group, but it is the transfer of demands from the sector, of course, in a very grim way. Their specific demands are much more ambitious, and the truth is they could well give to a full monograph. I wish a full monograph on this matter! We said yesterday that the data on reading and purchasing habits of books in our country reflects a very worrying reality. The last barometer about reading habits and buying books places us below the state average in the percentage of book readers in free time. And we're among the last autonomous communities in the ranking, so Galicia is -- listen -- almost 15 points from the community with the highest reader index. Here's the graph. This is the state average, and we are in sixth place, below the 17 autonomous communities that have the state. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela shows a chart.]] But it's just that the data on the purchase of books in German are also terrible. In Galicia, the percentage is about 8% of those who buy a book in English spontaneously, in Euskadi that figure is 17% -- that is, speaking of works in Basque -- and, of course, in Catalonia, the figure is still higher. The worst thing is that this data, which doesn't differ much from the panorama of recent years, seems not to reflect on the Council of Galicia, which seems to be passively watching a situation which, of course, says nothing good about us. That is why it is necessary — and from there our proposal, as I say, concrete and proactive — to be fully involved in this task, because, although reading is an individual act, it really needs the push of public authorities at all levels and in all areas. See, the Greek law states in its first additional provision that the Galician Union should present a reading promotion plan in which, in addition to contemplating objectives and measures, a periodization and budget necessary for its development is also determined. Also - we said yesterday - at this time the Government of the People's Party continues without adopting that plan of dynamization of reading, despite the many and successive announcements of the Greek Government in this regard. The same law - to be rigorous - also determines in its Article 4 the elaboration, prior to the hearing of the book agents or in collaboration with them, of plans and programmes of action, in addition to research and studies on the various aspects surrounding the book and reading in order to be able to implement effective policies. Effective policies!, that's the question. But since its approval there has been no study, no report, no investigation by our government; outside, of course, of those already carried out by the entities of the sector, such as itself — the Galician Council of Culture, which appear not to be taken into account -- they seem not to be taken into account -- they are not taken into account either by the Galician Union. That is why the first demand that we make today is to carry out — I repeat, as required by law — a detailed diagnosis of the situation of the book in our country and, together with the representatives of the sector, to draw up this plan for promoting book and reading, by the way, in a cross-cutting way — which means that it affects the whole of society — and, of course, with a special impact on the drive of our language. Look, there's, unfortunately, only one study that finds that we read literature in English, not one! In fact, all the studies that exist point out that we read much less in English and more and less in Spanish, and those reading rates are even smaller and more worrying if we consider our boys and girls. We understand that this should be a data that the German Government should be concerned about. And that's why, in addition, it seems to us entirely incongruent that our literature and our creators and creators are recognized outside Galicia with prestigious awards, which account for the magnificent quality of our writing, but in our country this finds no reflection anywhere. We must reverse this situation, we must reverse it and adopt strategies to change habits, and also -- why not say so?, why not assume it? -- we must also overcome prejudices for our language, for our literature, maintained in time, but they have no valid argument to support them. That plan should, of course, be presented to the Education and Culture Committee before its adoption - we hope so - where we will realize, in addition to its results on an annual basis; we hope that we will also be able to handle documents. In addition, as evidenced by the Galician Culture Council in its successive reports on the decline in public resources — I repeat, we do not say, the Galician Culture Council itself — in cultural matters, we propose to increase the aid to the Italian publishing sector and, in particular, to support the publication in the Greek language. All the associations consulted, all agree on the need to convene these aids, as well as, in Euskadi and Catalonia - by the way, some aids that have already existed in Galicia, but that have disappeared with the 2008 crisis and have not been recovered -. In the same way, it must increase twice as much when, minus -- we say "less twice as much" -- the budget allocation devoted to the purchase of books by public libraries. In the recent Galeg Culture Council working paper on the book sector, there is a very important decline in the spending on library acquisitions and in the provision of the main promotions for book and reading, which have suffered great cuts in recent years. But besides, this was also another of the measures envisaged in the Welsh cultural strategy, that wet paper that's still -- I suppose -- on the table of a councillor. Because really, by providing the libraries with good and extensive funds, we'll also be helping to improve the reading rates -- terrible -- of what we were talking about. And lastly, by collecting the demands that the main associations in the sector made a year ago, but we see that with little success, we also talk about designing a plan to promote the book, within and outside Galicia, duly calendarized and budgeted, with a special impact on internationalization. The quality of our letters -- I said it -- is more than demonstrated and transcends beyond our borders, but an editor or creator or creator by themselves are not able to reach the audiences outside of Galicia. That's why it's essential that it be our Government who designs that strategy of internationalization. The reality is, we don't have time. The Greek culture, and specifically the book sector, calls for greater support from its government to, as I say, consolidate a structure that certainly becomes strategic for our culture and also for our economy. But not only the industry, but also us, the citizenship, we need books and creators and creators for, well, as I said at first, living and thinking about freedom. And I do not want to end without inviting her, because I understand that she is going to reply again today to Mrs Vázquez, reiterating the invitation to meet not only the Government, but also the People's Parliamentary Group, with all these associations that make up this sector. You'll see just as much as you'd notice the perception you have of the book in Galicia. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u109	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. "The story of never ending." This is the title of the book that the People's Party has been writing for 13 years in the Government, with the absolute majority continued, and without us here, for the time being, that end for the development of the Law of Book and Reading. We continue with that inconclusive and open ending; that is, with the absolute lack of commitment on the part of the People's Party. A story, a story of never ending, that navigates, or rather makes water - I am allowed, with all due respect - in view of yesterday's intervention by the People's Party Member and the advisor himself in the inquiry we made to him in the previous plenary, that navigates between science fiction or even the dystopia, where the main protagonist, the counselor, disappears the core of history, with the help of the secondary actors of his team, and we've seen that also with the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, apparently doing what it does — what it really does — undo. "The endless history," ladies of the Group of the People's Party, has already been magnificently written. So they're going to put an end to theirs, which is a very bad copy turned into a very sad story. The question, at the bottom, which brings us here again today is the same: why does the People's Party give up in 13 years to maintain and maintain a commitment to the book and to reading in English? Why, 13 years later, is it unable to put on the table a single structural measure that really serves to safeguard the book and reading sector in Greek? What do they have against the writers, the illustrators, the translators, the booksellers, the editors and the whole of the society they read and which, in addition, shows that they want to read more? Perhaps all of this comes at the beginning, indeed: because the BNG wrote the first chapter, the Law of the Book and the Reading of the Year 2007, since the responsibility of government, because it believed - as we continue to believe - in the importance of reading as a social cohesion element, but also as a fundamental economic engine and as a job generator. And it will come back, we'll rewrite a new chapter very soon, don't doubt it, when it becomes a government again, with the confidence of the Greek society, to give a new yes to the book and a new yes to the reading in Greek. And as we move forward towards that new time, we will of course support this proposal that brings the Socialist Group today, because it compiles proposals that have already been debated in this House in committee and also in this full succession of times at the instances of the Galician Nationalist Block; it is true that we have to say with deep regret that without reaching the end happy for the incompetence of the People's Party; a People's Party that has already shown in this area, as in many others, that it is more friend of endless stories, of finally open, fleeting, like mere propaganda; that is, of the main actors of a policy to do nothing to be done, because for the PP what is really counting on this matter is inaction, immobilizity and ineffectiveness; that is to say, when to be "in" — who would say it! — that means invalidating the greatest creative cultural expression in our country. And you will be right about the representative of the People's Party — who will now take the floor — when he says that we are already BNG's again, giving him the turn of the book and reading in English. And I'm telling him he's right, and I'm telling him by reminding me, if I may, that epic film scene, the Agora, our Agora! , a fundamental source of consultation of parliamentary work. [[Mr. Complaints Zas shows some documents.]] At the present time I testify that it is so, because only in this legislation - which has not yet reached its equator - at the BNG we have registered more than 50 initiatives that you can easily locate, simply by placing the words "book" or "read". That's the job and it's BNG's commitment since the people's representation in this House. [[Applause]] From the BNG we tell you that we will always go from the hand of a people of worship, where reading is the central axis of people's formation and social cohesion, where reading in English is a multicultural umbilical cord and where we understand that the Government - and we will do so - must always be a bridge of communication, encouragement and impulse and not a problem, an obstacle or a brake, as we exemplified yesterday, giving the word to different communiqués from agents linked to the book sector. And they'll have us here - if, always - reminding the People's Party that doesn't comply with the Vigilant Legislation. Moreover, it opts to maintain itself in the lair, in the blindness and incommunicado with the sector itself, because they have been failing to prepare a reading dynamization plan that indicates the law without explaining why, because they have been failing their own and repeated 13 years - up to satiety - and without explaining why, because they have been ignoring the German book sector for 13 years and without explaining why, and because they have been missing 13 years in this area also to Greek society and without explaining why. Sufficient information and specific data were given yesterday in this plenary session, in our motion, as in the previous plenary session, in the inquiry we made to the advisor. However, the reality of data, it's always honest and explains everything. Yesterday's intervention, in our motion, by the representative of the People's Party, Mrs Vázquez, also demonstrated that the Government of the People's Party is now also in breach of the People's Party's Parliamentary Group itself by completely ignoring the unanimous commitment we made in this House, promoted by a non-legislative proposal of the People's Party in September 2021, which urged the Government to end the drafting work of the Reading Plan. This is what literally appears in that agreement - the Government of the People's Party is clear that it does not govern well or in its house - and the answer yesterday from the spokeswoman of the People's Party still proves something more serious, and it is that it has even failed the textual words of the cultural adviser in the previous plenary, or it has confirmed that he lied - he will say - when he literally announced the counselor, Mr. Román Rodríguez, that "we are working, drafting the Plan of dynamization of reading. It is true that it has stopped, basically because it is impossible to hold meetings with the sector, but it is ready to be presented." Please review the Journal of Sessions and you'll see how explicit it was. So you forgot to talk about this yesterday, Mrs. Vázquez, what a curiosity! Is there a reading dynamisation plan or is there no plan? You lied or the counselor lied. Maybe now he'll clear it up. At the BNG, however, we're not going to waste our time asking them for explanations; we're going to ask them, yes, to act, to act at once and to abandon their policy of vacuum balancers. Compromise with its -- um! -- The Strategy of Greek Culture 2021, when it says also literally -- because at BNG we always go to the pure documentary source -- that "will be a priority goal to design mechanisms to implement policies around reading, around strengthening the book sector itself." And listen also, please -- if your partner lets you, and we keep such rules of courtesy and education -- what she says... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that it's very hard to talk. You understand me, don't you, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u110	I understand that, but it cannot be prevented from speaking. Maybe he's talking to you about something. That's... [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead. That's it. It's a matter that doesn't have, either, greater transcendence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u111	He was told to listen, please, to the literary words of the Galician Council of Culture -- which, at last, you agreed yesterday, that there exists and that it is important to take into account -- when he says, in the diagnosis of Greek culture, the following: "...the absence of an internationalization policy that portrays an external projection strategy of Greek literature as a recognized and valued brand; a priority strategy for economic growth and the enhancement of the indispensable international dialogue." Yesterday it became clear in his intervention that this does not know enough. But they did something right, it's true, and there's something to recognize to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: to sow dissent, conflict, permanent instability with the sector -- as the communiqués prove, a few small extracts we read yesterday in full -- -- to mess with laws, for example, as you also said, like the Library Law, not developed for ten years, because it was passed in 2012, or to ignore the existing legal frameworks, such as the Book and Reading Law since 2007. If they don't like having been drafted by the BNG, it's okay, it's up to you, it's up to you, it's up to you, they're moving, please, whatever's needed for the sake of the sector, but they're doing something useful and they're doing it at once, because they've been lost for too long. Stop looking the other way and rule, ultimately, that's what it takes and it's for what we pay the gales and the gales. And if they don't like to promote, to stand up for the promotion of their own literature, that is, of the writing in English, if the problem for the People's Party, as we have already confirmed today in the words of President Rueda's intervention, is the root word, that is, the words that support literary creation, tell them openly also, honestly, and explain it to society, who continues to trust in the fortress of his own language, who knows that the loss of speakers is reversible and that is in his hand, also in the hands that write and read, who support books to conjugate the future. For those who like the People's Party, encouraged by the play of the ultra-right, are saying that the Greek has no future, there is a society that clearly answers: we will speak, write and read also in Greek. The same society that, of course, we look like in the BNG, the same society we want to build and make Galicia good. Now that we can leave, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the sanitary masks, we'll give the People's Party back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u113	...the opportunity to remove the mask from the distance from the opportunities of the book, from reading and to discover the commitment to a society that wants to write and read, which ultimately wants to count, and count a lot. So we support this proposal not of socialist law, to which we add, with the intention of complementing and adding, proposals we understand fundamental, because they come, precisely, from the sector itself, such as: to promote measures to support direct, literary creation, in Greek; to guarantee a minimum of 50% of the purchase of bibliographical funds in Greek for libraries; to activate the creation of mobile services, libraries -- which has already been pronounced here by the Secretary General of Culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u115	...but if the light doesn't see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u117	...to zoom in on to all locations and enable all functions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u119	...of the Advisory Board of the Book...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u120	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u121	...to stop being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u122	Thank you. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas utters words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Complaints, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. With the view placed on the challenges of the future of Galician culture, in 2019 the Galician Union launched the Strategy of Greek Culture; a roadmap with a fundamental objective: to promote our culture as a basic service with an important social and economic value through a tool that gathers the main lines of action and cultural priorities of Galicia. In the debate of yesterday's motion, the socialist voicer — and again today’s voice — accused this parliamentary group of presenting an initiative to resume the work of drafting the Plan for the dynamization and impulse of Galicia’s reading. Look, Mrs. Complaints, while you and your leader were thinking of calling the elections in the midst of a health crisis caused by the coward, the German Government was saving lives. That's the difference between German independence and the People's Party. The first ones, concerned about elections... the second ones, concerned about the lives of the Greeks. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Due to the health crisis that seems to override the Galego Nationalist Block, the Greek Government has effectively paralyzed the application of much of the lines collected within this Strategy to focus on the immediate needs of the Greek culture. You're not lying to this parliamentary group, you're not lying to the counselor; here's the only lie that you're. [[Applause]] Look, what the Greek Government devoted to in the midst of a health and economic crisis resulting from the coward was to promote a reactivation plan that all the lords know. He's been maintaining cultural activity and, moreover, helping the professionals in the culture sector, who were going through the worst of times; ultimately, working is what they were doing. Look, the explanatory statement of the non-law proposal presented by the Socialist Group clearly shows — and we have just seen it after the last non-law proposals discussed in this Parliamentary House — that there is a clear competition between the Greek political oppositions, a confrontation between the left, unable to think of the Greeks and more able to think of themselves. After listening to the words spoken on yesterday, and that clearly had an impact on leadership, through the motion debate, it became evident — and today also in Mrs. Pontón's words — that what they can do is to confront. They are unable to dialogue, and what they want is to impose their political idea above all the Greeks. Speaks to Mrs. Complaints of the Future, but they remain rooted in the past. They talk about the future and all we hear is nationalistic authoritarianism. And they're talking about the future, but they're still dealing with the language, with the Greek -- we just saw him right now -- Mrs. Díaz says at the exhibition of this initiative that there has been a strong reduction in public aid and subsidies. Look, Mrs. Díaz, I don't think you heard me yesterday, but I repeat them again. On the part of the Galician and the Greek Government there is support for the edition of the Greek book, a new line that was drawn up, which was imposed in 2021 and which continues to be maintained in 2022, and is actually subsidized the publishing and marketing of the book in Greek with a budget share of 200,000 euros. It continues to support commercialization with a partnership agreement with the Galician Federation of Books; it continues to support digital reading through the acquisition of book-use licenses for the e-book lending platform, such as "GaliciaLe", which has a catalogue of more than 6,000 references, of which more than 2,000 are books published by Italian publishers; it continues to support the creation of literature in Greek with the convening of selectives, awards and recognitions to creativity in different genres; it continues to support literary translation - look at the data: between 2012 and 2021 have mobilized close to two million euros ; and it continues to support the entities of the book sector, helping economically the main entities with specific annual and multiannual conventions to strengthen the association activity. I think we are talking about the different lines with the objective of focusing on particularly relevant areas of action that have to do with a strategic sector like the book sector. Even so, after your pronouncement yesterday and telling me that I checked the data, because I did my homework, Mrs. Díaz. I'm actually accepting advice. Look, I checked and checked and there was no false data. Do you know exactly what I saw? That the data doesn't like you; it's more, I've even found a report from the Galeg Culture Observatory that shows that the expenditure on culture and language budgeted by the Autonomic Administration in 2022 is set at 106.5 million euros; that is, with a slight increase over the year 2021, exactly 2.2%. You don't like it, Mrs. Díaz, because there's the data. You know what happened? That after confirming my data -- if you want to accept advice, good advice -- what you have to do is review your data, because the mistake is probably there. Look, the book industry, as part of the Galician cultural industry, is one of the areas of Greek culture where the Galician Union is developing a more relevant activity, in ongoing dialogue with the sectors involved and in support of initiatives that are considered priority for the advancement of the Greek book ecosystem; an ecosystem made up of creators, publishers, libraries, and, of course, the public reader. Secondly, the Law of the Book and the Reading of Galicia constitutes the normative reference from which the annual policies focused on developing their forecasts apply. Thirdly, the policy of supporting libraries will be understood as an indispensable part of this ecosystem of the Greek book. With the approval of the Galician Library Law, the lines of action are developed that disseminate a quality library service in the Galician set. See, your approval in 2012 was a turning point for the Galician librarian services, with clear advances over these ten years: network work, modernization of library management and the establishment of planning and governance tools, firmly committed to training, innovation and digitization. Fourthly, in the statistics of books published in Galicia, there is a maintenance of publishing activity over the last few years, encrypted with more than 2,200 books published each year. See, this amount represents 3,4 % of State production, and records an increase of 10,8 % over the previous year's data. And fifthly, Galicia's reading rates, although they are improved -- and from the People's Parliamentary Group as we consider it -- are not very different from those of the Spanish media set, Mrs Díaz. Look, regarding public reading, Galicia continues to progress little, little, as we like: in 2019, 59.6%; ; in... 2020, 61.6%; in 2021, 61.9%. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez pauses in her speech.]] Don't they like it? You're going to write down the data. As for reading in the field of education, reading performance in the PISA tests, Galicia reaches a score of 494 above the average of Spain, which is 477, and above all also the averages of OECD countries, which are in 487. Finally, as far as designing a promotion plan inside and outside Galicia, I think they don't know that from the Government of Greece the external projection and internationalization of the book by means of a line of help for the participation of these creators in cultural programming outside of Galicia, and also the presence of the book in the international fairs of the book. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the international dissemination and projection of language, book, literature and culture abroad, as requested at its third point. Look, this parliamentary group will never be to paralyze, but to walk the path of the future; to walk in the future of the Greeks, in the future of language and, of course, in the future of book and culture. So we present a substitution amendment, the same as yesterday, with the illusion of betting on a vital sector like that of the book, keeping the lines of work that from the framework of the Law of the Book and of Galicia's reading drive the ecosystem of the book of Galicia, which have a positive impact on its commercial dynamization and its visibility in Galicia and outside our community and which, of course, favor the enhancement of reading indexes in the educational context. And I'm done, president, counting on them to be able to accept the amendment and keep working on the future of the Greeks. Let's dialogue and come to an agreement. Otherwise it will be clear that in this Parliamentary House what interests the Nationalist Block of Wales and the Socialist Party is to be rooted in the past and in confrontation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u124	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u125	Mrs. Vázquez, I have to admit that the step is frankly well discussed with you, with that vehemence, which I think also characterizes me. It is true that what is worrying is that in the two years that I have been the voicer of culture in this Parliament it is the third interlocutor we have in cultural matters and, at best, the problem here - and that is why your intervention today - is that you do not know the world of culture in our country. It surprises the lack of smell beginning its intervention by talking about the Welsh cultural strategy, which no one knows about it. We still don't know what the situation is with this Welsh cultural strategy. And I won't, by the way, be the one who defends the BNG voicer, who already knows how to defend her perfectly, but, of course, that you say and I don't know what he talks about the dynamization plan -- that we've been waiting for him for years, waiting for him! -- at least the colors should come out. What comes from every graph is that in this month, where we commemorate our letters and our language, the only parliamentary group that does not bring to this full nothing pro-positive on this subject is precisely the People's Group. It's not at all random because it's directly proportional to the conception that the government-supporting group has of the state of our culture. By the way, I've already said -- and how many more times we'll repeat it -- that nothing coincides with the majority of the representation of the various agents involved in the whole book process. As much as you care for yourself -- but that's right -- meet with them and with them, because you -- as I say -- suck on the Greek book, but they don't think the same thing. Moreover, they speak of manifest disillusionment in the observance and development of the law, and this is manifest. I mean, it's a matter for you to study a little. And besides, not only that, some of the associations consulted say that they wouldn't survive, or that, well, they wouldn't stay out of support from the municipalities and the deputies. That's what the sector says. But I was talking about data, Mrs. Vázquez, and of course, the truth is, if you want to study, you're doing well, because, of course, if you're going to make me a comparison between 2022 and 2021, I'm laughing; in fact, it came to me. Perhaps what you have to do is to compare the data of the year 2021 with that of 2009 and you'll see that in 2009 the budget devoted to culture — please listen, because, of course, you're not interested in listening to it — was 1.03 of the total budgets; and this year the Board, in this exercise, does not reach 0.7. So that's the data. [[Applause]] Let's compare what needs to be compared with. But that's what you were talking about 2012, and I'm going to give you another data from 2012. [[Applause]] In 2012 — which we did not govern, remember, I am already so benevolent — in chapter IV, in the investment of foundation lots and acquisitions for bibliographic funds, you invested 1.5 million; this year, 395,000. Go to the data, Mrs. Vázquez, go to the data, but not to those you're interested in. No, no, not the set, we're talking about buying books. [[Applause]] Having said this, and speaking about the amendments, we have accepted the amendment. We understand that it is supposed to expand our entire initiative today. Of course there are two that have to do with the library, but it is also true that if we want to retrieve those reading indices -- if we say so -- libraries are the essential tools to increase those reading indices, unfortunately, even though you think it is acceptable. Little patience, little drive in what it means to read, the habit of reading; it's terrible that you're talking about going little, little ride, when you get up a 0.01 with respect to last year's indexes. Well, finally, we understand that yes, that it contributes to improving our initiative, indeed it is true. One point: in point 8, when you talk about the activation of all the functions of the advisory council — I want to make a little joke here — maybe you should join a little more: whether it's for real use, where the voice of the representation of the sector is really taken into account. Because finally, as much as the functions are fulfilled, the reality is that that advice is of little value and how structured it is. As for the amendment of the People's Party, well, I think we have nothing else to say. Of course, we clearly support maintaining the lines of work that exist so far. It would be desirable if these lines of work were to be increased, but to keep them, yes, man, yes!, to keep what they want, but we cannot accept it, so I think we explained, and that it became clear yesterday and today, that it had a positive impact. Even more it seems not to be a lack of rigor, which has remained here today, but with regard to the evidence, that after the above-mentioned graph, which I have shown before, you say that the current policies favor the enhancement of reading indexes. What are you talking about, if I'm already putting it...? And besides they are not our data, they are the data that manages the ministry, that manages the ministry, because indeed, the Council of Culture does not do any study on this matter at all. Of course, unless you do what you do, which seems to have been after your intervention, it's that they comply with the lamentable current position in which we are effectively secured. Of course — it's over — it won't be the Socialist Party who bleaches the lust, the carelessness and the lack of support from the current German Government for the book and our language. So, of course -- I said -- we didn't accept your amendment. You will see, the People's Parliamentary Group, with its most likely negative vote, the message that they want to move by refusing to comply with the Law of the Book and of the Reading of Galicia and by increasing the resources needed to, as I say, improve those reading rates. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Sol Díaz Mouteira and six other Members, on the assumption by the Galician Parliament of Manifesto for the legal security of territorial and urban planning signed by thirteen self-governments in the framework of the Meeting of Xacobeo 21-22 by responsible urbanism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u127	There is a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u128	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last March 24 and 25, Santiago de Compostela celebrated the Xacobeo 21-22 Autonomic Meeting for responsible urbanism. General and responsible directors of the areas of territory, urbanism and housing of a dozen autonomous communities, in addition to the Deputy Director General for Urban Policies of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, representing the Central Government, participated in a call that concluded the two working days with a consensus document on the development of the territory. We all know this document as a Manifesto for the legal security of territorial and urban planning, a manifesto on which the People's Parliamentary Group initiative today brings to the full, because we have previously agreed with the main conclusion: the need to provide legal security the area of land management and urbanism in view of the exponential increase in the cases of nullity of plans derived from formal vices on the determining content of the plan's objectives, and which could be solved with simple procedures. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there are increasingly numerous declarations of radical nullity of territorial and urban planning, which are turning development rules into a weak and unreliable instrument. We are talking about extraordinarily complex technical documents, which are subject to strict legal regulations and which require a large amount of pre-emptive and binding reports. But we didn't just get on the technical and legal side. Let's remember that planning is also a fruit of closeness and neighborhood allegations, which defend their most particular and also general interests. In the land and more urban planning plans, there are as important aspects as economic and social issues, and in the most current plans it is inconceivable that sustainable and respectful urbanism is not collected from the territory. We must take all these aspects into account in order to be aware of the economic, social and future prejudices for a whole community that involves the annulment of the PXOMs. Because, as I said, from time to time, this part has exponentially increased the cases of nullity of planning, and all because of formal vices and — I insist — purely formal errors. Vigo, Ourense, Gondomar, Rábade, Melón, Abegondo, Verín, Monterrey, Boqueixón, Muxia, and, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't seek a quick solution, I'm sure many more Iranian municipalities will add to the list of cases of radical cancellation of planning. Years and years of ingentious work, years and years of collective effort, of a thousand reports, of resolutions, of processing, it becomes paper wet by a court ruling for the only reason — which is not a reason — of an error of procedure. By the way, errors of procedure can easily be covered by other regulations or rules, and there is nothing more to look at — as we all know — the Law of Administrative Procedure, where we are talking about deadlines for healing, which in this case, and when it comes to more complex matters, we could even talk about broader deadlines. But why can't you then facilitate that correction of formal vices of territorial and urban planning? Because in Spain, the defence of the procedure is now based on mere formality, and there is no legal good that is territorial and urban development, public interest and the guarantee of the future of an affected community. In Spain, because we're not only talking about Galicia, the Supreme Court takes up jurisprudence and maintains that the nullity of planning does not allow for subsanitation, validation or maintenance of proceedings. Therefore, go back to the beginning; therefore, start the processing again. In countries around us, such as France, Italy and Germany, they have already realized that the principle of preservation of plans and the healing of vices or errors must prevail. Now in these countries the exception is the radical nullity of the plan. I've mentioned some examples of cities and villages affected in Galicia by the cancellation of planning, but they will understand that there are cases scattered throughout Spain, and the result of these cancellations we all know. What would the consequences be, gentlemen? For, to begin with, an unacceptable overthrow of public resources; a disincentive of the local administration itself, which sees only in that planning an obstacle to which one can be found; absolute uncertainty, legal insecurity, delays in the process of processing and execution of public infrastructures and services; private investments from the most diverse areas paralysed by this urban uncertainty; paralysing the development of a city, compromising its future, its social welfare and the quality of life of its neighbours and neighbours. It also limits economic progress for too many years and causes the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs. And even increases the risk of degradation of our architectural, historical and cultural heritage. And what is the current solution in Spain to the radical cancellation of planning? Well, to revive the most immediate regulation of the past, which on most occasions has several decades of history. I mean, it cancels a territorial or urban plan for a mere defect of procedure, for a formal vice, that with a reform of state legislation it would be easily subsanitable, but that the Supreme Court, following its jurisprudence, says that it should return to minute one of its processing, and we immediately re-registrate ourselves by a plan of twenty, thirty or forty years. Plans that do not meet the demands of today's society, our way of life, the needs of businesses, new and unthinkable companies decades ago, public activity, leisure, leisure, youth and, above all, an aging population and social services provision. And besides, they're plans that have nothing to do with the current concept of urban development, because, in view of the old values of cement and vehicles, today we are looking for a greater well-being of citizenship, betting for a sustainable and responsible urbanism that lasts over time, that promotes alternative energies and energy efficiency and that is respectful of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative, the People's Group wants the Galician Parliament to join the manifesto that demands this need to promote this reform of state legislation that avoids the radical nullity of general municipal management plans and other planning instruments when they are — of course — easily unsanitable procedural vices; a new updated, flexible, simplified, axile regulatory scenario. By the way, and before I also forget to quote it, a new policy framework that avoids returning to our ancestors' plans and puts at risk investments in the National Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and in particular the housing and urban regeneration plans that could be financed from European funds Next Generation. This manifesto, for what we call for the support of this House's groups, calls for strengthening cooperation and collaboration in the area of land management and urbanism between the General Administration and autonomy, with unified procedures between all territories, lordships, and a law that provides legal security for planning throughout the State. And there is consensus, ladies and gentlemen, of course there is. The Galician Union expressed its support, as well as thirteen autonomous communities - Asturias, Balearic Islands, Cantabria, Basque Country, Navarra, Aragon, Castela-León, Castile-A Mancha, Madrid, Valencia, Murcia, Extremadura and Andalucía - the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, the Deputies of the Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra, the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and municipalities even individually that have already moved forward to the resolution of the Executive of the Fegamp of last Wednesday 18, such as Vilagarcia, Betanzos, Cervo or San Sadurniño. And in addition to the Fegamp itself, we also addressed the Greek municipalities so that they would individually adhere to the manifesto to continue to add to their efforts. Communities such as Catalonia, which, although according to the manifesto, prefers to negotiate bilaterally with the Central Government, and Rioxa and Canary Islands, which will surely soon join. But, in addition, we have other highly relevant professional groups who also supported this manifesto, such as the Official College of Architects of Galicia, the Urbanist Architects Association, the Full Council of Spanish Architects and other collectives such as engineers, lawyers, notaries and registrators, who are members and others about to close their adherence to the manifesto. Ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore sum up efforts among all: administrations, collectives and, above all, Parliament as well. And here I am sure that on this path in the People's Parliamentary Group we will find ourselves with the support of the opposition groups, we will meet with the tendency of the opposition groups of this parliament for responsible urbanism, which is the basis for progress, which is the basis for preserving and guaranteeing the quality of life and the well-being of the neighbours and neighbours. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ojea Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u131	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. That's a good sound! It's a great honor to be here for the first time and I hope to comply with my amendment. The People's Parliamentary Group is proposing a non-legislative proposal in the plenary session of the Galician Parliament which, as a resolution, is made for the Manifesto for the legal security of territorial and urban planning signed by fourteen communities, five of them of our own color. The Xacobeo 21-22 Autonomic Meeting, aimed at responsible urbanism, among other measures, points out that the central government is pushing the necessary legislative measures to provide greater legal certainty and to promote solutions to the problem facing the municipalities at the moment their plans are cancelled. We, the PSdeG, are convinced that the courts cancel the general plans when they consider them illegal, and that if their quality and administrative processing were improved by adjusting to legality, it would be sufficient and so nullity would be avoided by default or by reporting. Urban planning cannot be considered the same in all cases. The same is true of the coast, the interior, the rural environment, urban areas, areas of high environmental protection, heritage, cultural, etc., etc. It would be good not to forget that ferocious urban speculation was lethal to the economy, employment and the environment. The real estate bubble in Spain derives from Royal Decree Law 5/1996, of 7 June, from liberalization measures in soil matter, as specified in Law 6/1998 of 13 April, on soil regime and valuations. His outbreak has generated the great economic crisis of 2008, which at last came to account for more than 60 billion euros of all of us. A proper reflection could be: if the socio-economic development of the people is achieved by the development of the urban sector and that has associated the destruction of natural, cultural and landscaped heritage, some plans are unsustainable over time, with oversized constructions, not taking into account the protection of the coast, the public hydraulic domain and the protected spaces. There is an organisational instrument for collaboration between the Environmental, Heritage and Living Council and the municipalities to improve the quality of urban management; it is the Urban Legality Protection Agency (APLU), whose action has been being that, at the moment that you are aware of the existence of possible action contrary to urban planning, initiates a research process, processing an information file; it can be archived or continue with the opening of a replacement process, and ending, if necessary, with a sanctioning procedure. When a municipal government has the need to make a plan of urbanism, it knows political wear will be important. The urban legend says that the minimum time to complete an urban plan is four years and the group that promotes it often loses the elections. Don't stop being a legend. For example, in my county, in the boat of Valdeorras, PXOM was made in two years, with fourteen PERI, two PIPRI, and, in addition, the government group moved from six concelers to nine concellers. Well, that's a very good exception. It is not the same in the capitality of our province, where the urbanism plan was annulled in 2003, for sufficiently important reasons, and which is currently with the 1985 plan, with the added problems that this entails. The 1995 Ourense has nothing to do with the 2003 Ourense. We found ourselves canceled by very varied themes, as Mrs. Díaz said, since the failure of a telecommunication report, a defect in form, because water resources were not guaranteed to supply the population, and even some PXOM was refused by the neighbors after being approved in full. I mean, every canceled plan is a world, and hence the need for agencies to monitor the proper development of plans. At that meeting it was also on the table at Natura 2000 Network, of which it was said: the Natura 2000 Network does not determine a unique urban orientation for any of the land integrated into it, but imposes an obligation to maintain the favourable conservation status of protected habitats and species. In Spain 27% of the soil is within this protection network and in Galicia there are sixteen ZEPA, which are areas of special protection for birds, which occupy about 100,000 hectares; they are mainly in coastal ecosystems, mountain areas and wetlands of the interior. In addition, there are 59 special conservation areas (ZEPs), occupying 370,000 hectares. All this comes to represent 12% of Galician soil. For all this, in the face of such diversity, there is a need to protect and be vigilant on the part of the Government of the Union. This protection network is mostly in rural areas, and that is where there should be a consensus on the treatment and protection of rural areas, in order to reverse the loss of inhabitants, the lack of employment, the aid deficit and the general abandonment. There is a need for positive discrimination, for investment in budgets to attract rural people again. In this sense, Galicia has the RDPs, which are rural development programmes, which aim to preserve and re-evaluate Galicia's natural heritage. Also, to improve the quality of life of the population by promoting the provision of basic services that help to set the population in rural areas, create jobs or reduce the risk of poverty. In rural areas, one of the possible solutions would be to stimulate youth to re-appreciate the medium, making its vital environment. The future of a country goes through Thursdays, and the first and most necessary is to secure a decent home for them. The central government is doing its homework in this sense and we must underline the young rental bonus, in which 3,800 young people can enjoy an aid of 250 euros/month, i.e. 3,000 euros/year. The ministry, by the way, has already notified the Galician Board of 28 April of the resolution to transfer these funds; therefore, the Union may call the aid when it considers it appropriate. Also with the object of attracting the young population to the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, facilitating the settlement of the population in under 35 years of age, the Central Government has two lines of help: an aid to the purchase of a housing of up to 10,800 euros or 15 per cent of the real value whenever it is less than 120,000 euros. Another aid is for rent, up to five years, and can cover 60% of the income per month, being compatible with the Youth Bonus, with which it could reach up to 75% of the rent price. This program, apart from meeting a basic constitutional right, aims to prevent the depopulation of the rural environment. I know this one, the rural environment, lacks ideology, and we all need to protect and improve it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a final reflection. The Autonomous Community of Galicia has exclusive powers in the area of land and coastal management, as well as in urbanism and housing, under Article 27.3 of the Autonomy Statute. This competition began with Law 11/1985 of August 22 and was an adaptation of the Law of the General Land. It continued with Law 1/1997 and then with Law 9/2002 of 30 December 2002 on urban management and protection of the rural environment. I assumed the full exercise of powers already for the Galician Union. Later there were other laws that modified the text that was initially approved. The basis for facing a legal text is clear: enacting a law presided over by the principles of transparency, clarity, administrative simplification, legal certainty and practical applicability. The idea is to achieve an objective soil regulatory standard, which, according to an axil document, is accessible to all social agents and technical and legal operators, in order to have a co-responsibility of all of them and which enables territorial protection and sustainable development. It is important, within the co-responsibility, to recognize local autonomy, giving it greater competence, and to remain for the Union as regards the control of legality and the protection of supra-municipal interests. Once this has been said, we can analyze the situation of the Greek, large and small municipalities, with regard to their planning to this day. For provinces, we find ourselves with the following: in the Coruña, 61 municipalities have the PXOM, the general plan; that is, 68%; 27 have subsidiary rules, 30%; 4 have no plans, 2%. In Lugo, 25 municipalities have plan, 38%; 24, subsidiary standards, 36%; 8 have urban soil delimitation, 12%; and 9 have no plan, 14%. In Ourense, 54 with PXOM, 59%; subsidiary rules, 16%; land delimitation, 5%. And in Pontevedra, 41 have PXOM, 63%; and they have no plan 6%. This is still a statistic, but it reveals a reality: 58% of Galician municipalities, large and small, have either approved a PXOM or in operation; the rest have no PXOM. These 26 have subsidiary rules and these subsidiary rules are sometimes over thirty years old; there are 4% of small municipalities that have applicable urban management instruments; that is, urban soil delimitation, and 11% lack any urban planning. In view of this situation, the Galician Union should focus on improving the quality of plans and administrative procedures so as not to violate the laws. I could therefore provide means and advisors to local corporations. It would not be a bad thing that there was a cautious justice that would prevent the execution of unconsolidated plans from harming third parties. So the PSdEG-PSOE vote is now very clear. If we're involved in a consensus, we have a consensus and we're going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ojea. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u133	Good afternoon now. With this initiative the People's Party calls for the support of the opposition forces to a manifesto that has already been closed, it is predetermined, because it has been negotiated by the Union with other autonomous communities, without previously counting on this chamber. The Union could have done otherwise, it could have moved first to the Galician Parliament an open proposal for debate, which would address the specific challenges our country has in the area of urbanism and territorial planning, which are indeed many, and which would also demonstrate a real will to debate and agree on the set of forces that we represent the Greek society. However, the Union preferred to take another approach, which is unusual, which is to draw up and deal — as I say — a manifesto with other autonomous communities and to post-accession without the possibility of debate in this Chamber. And it's no less this detail; in fact, the choice of this formula shows what the reluctance, motivations and intentions of Joina itself are with this manifesto. The reluctance of the Union to start a debate in the Italian Parliament on what are the current problems facing our urbanism and territorial planning is because it could inevitably reflect on its own incompetence, because we remember that the competences in these matters are transferred to the Greek Government and that in this matter the State has little to say, only in matters relating to the right to property, since even the application of the State Land Law itself is defined by its own legislation. So the intention of the Galician Union by choosing this method is to escape its own debate and its own responsibilities, looking for a small parcel that is out of its responsibilities where to lay the blame. And the framework set in this manifesto leaves out the main issues that affect our planning, and one of the most pressing issues is the crisis of municipal urban plans, which is a problem that goes beyond our borders but expresses itself in a unique way in the case of Greek. The Fordista industrial city model is changing, it is moving towards a new urbanization model with its own characteristics, such as the combination of the growth of middle towns, along with the stagnation of metropolitan centers. Or, for example, the growth scattered across the territory, very recognizable in that urban continuum across the Atlantic axis. Or also a growing polarization of infrastructures and major core nodes. And all these phenomena are transversal phenomena that are above municipal borders. And here lies one of the keys to the urban planning crisis, and the new forms of urbanization cannot be addressed from the limits of the municipal term but require supra-municipal planning. The crisis of urban planning is related to the emergence of this new territoriality, which requires new techniques and new instruments. And what is the situation we have in Galicia to address these needs? What instruments do we have? Well, despite the fact that the urban management instruments are moving forward, although at a very slow pace, however, territorial management we see is null. It's a paradox so that, despite more and more urban plans, we have an unregulated territory, because there are no clear objectives as to which the management and governance of these new urban dynamics that have been going on for decades. What instruments does the Galician Union have to solve this planning urbanism crisis? What can you do? For he has his own Land Management Act, which has just passed a new reform of the Land Management Act in the last year, and that law establishes, for example, as an instrument, the Land Management Guidelines. At this point, the Galician Land Management Guidelines are no more than mere recommendations, so, after more than a decade of approval, their real impact is very scarce. They had the opportunity in that reform, as I said, of last year of the Territorial Management Act to change the capacity of these guidelines and give them a real ability to determine and govern territorial dynamics, but they continued to leave them as inoperative guidelines. The change made in respect of the Territorial Management Guidelines was to introduce an amendment in order to avoid giving this Parliament the report that had been delivered annually on what is the development of the guidelines. I mean, all they did is try to hide the lack of results and the inoperability of the current Land Management Guidelines. [[Applause]] You have many other instruments, for example integrated territorial plans, which have appeared in the legislation since the year 95. It's a figure that allows you to order sub-municipal areas, such as metropolitan areas, districts. But after twenty-seven years of that approval of the first Land Management Act, there is neither the first of these areas in the whole country with approved planning nor the first one. The only integrated territorial plan we have is that of the coast. They also have special territorial plans, a figure that allows you to develop the Management Guidelines as well as the landscape, ecological, heritage, productive characteristics... There's not one special territorial plan approved. That's the development made by the Galician Joiner of the sort tools. And all this inactivity contrasts with the four hundred sectoral projects and plans of supra-municipal impact which they have adopted, often through ad hoc reforms to facilitate certain private interests or some urban ballast. The result is that land management has been reduced to the deployment of activities and infrastructures in a fragmented manner, which is imposed on the integral management of the territory. In short, the People's Party has not developed its own legislation, leaving territory in deregulation. And the new forms of urbanization that I've described before, in addition to demanding greater integration between city planning and territory, also undermine the instruments and techniques of municipal urban planning. General plans have serious problems adapting to this new reality, which is deepening in a crisis of their credibility. Some of the most important problems are very recognizable. For example, we see how most of these instruments maintain enormous imbalances between the urbanized land reserves and the real evolution of our cities. Another example: almost all general plans have enormous differences between urban development programming and real development capacities, which make real management go through other unplanned pathways in practice. Or also the problem of the proliferation of sectoral regulations and the increasing complexity of processing and the delaying of deadlines, which do not always translate into greater guarantees. As we can see, there are a lot of the causes that deepen in the crisis of urban planning but, curiously enough, the People's Party only puts the focus on the question that escapes its competition. Of all they could do, because they have all the competences, they only focus on the question that escapes from their competence. The manifesto presented focuses on its proposal for responsible urbanism on the question of the increase in the number of urban plans that end up buried in courts due to defects in proceedings. For the People's Party, none of the other issues affecting their competences, which is in their hands, seems to be of concern to him. According to Junta, the problem of urbanism and planning in Galicia is reduced to a problem of legal insecurity caused by the Supreme Court and that the central government must resolve. And, well, with regard to that particular question, we share part of the analysis. In fact, the Supreme Court has consolidated a case-law from which it derives that a defect in the processing of an urban plan implies its radical nullity, without the possibility of remedial, validating or preserving proceedings, so that it obliges it to start from zero to processing. We agree that this is a growing problem, which has a tremendous negative impact every time Justice throws back plans for issues that could be sub-sanable. But, in line with this analysis, we also believe that proposals that slide the text are too vague and can lead to multiple interpretations. Because it is not clearly specified what are the reasons that could determine the nullity of the plan and which others would be sub-sanitable. And the key here is to define this difference between the defects that are considered to be sub-sanable by others that would imply radical nullity or the preservation of procedures. Because an excessively lax interpretation in which many of the procedures result from a posteriori can incur a progressive deregulation and greater failure to comply with the regulations, which, instead of walking towards that supposed responsible urbanism, would mean moving towards a greater discredit of these instruments. The text also does not address the fundamental role of the Galician Union itself each time one of these instruments falls, because the Galician Union has to observe, control and approve this plan. And when a general plan is dropped in the courts because it lacks a report — by setting an example, of public participation — Galician Union is the first to be questioned because it has not demanded and guaranteed compliance with the rules, and even sentences. But none of this can be debated, as I say, on this proposal brought by the People's Party, because the Galician Union decided to deal with a text outside this chamber with other autonomous communities and bring us a text that has already been closed that does not give rise to amendments, substituting in addition to that text its strategy of throwing balloons out. The proposal, as I say, that they bring today is not amendable but is prefixed. And from our perspective, this text lacks clarity in its purpose, giving rise to a possible interpretation that leads to deregulation. In fact, the text reveals at some times this intention as when, for example, it intends to close the doors to the possibility that the courts would make a more secure and protectionist interpretation of soil qualification in Natura 2000 or when it proposes a regulatory amendment so that the sense of administrative silence is understood as positive. And about this last, the way we should travel, we think it's about simplifying and clarifying the process and demanding that all administrations have to co-responsibility and assume the speedy issuance of reports with short and reasonable deadlines, starting with the Galician Board's own administration, which doesn't do. And we regret that the People's Party — as I say — wanted to bring the debate closed to Parliament, a debate to which concrete proposals are missing from the very specific case-law of radical nullity. But, above all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u135	...we regret the narrow look of a government that is unable to address any of the problems that go through urban and territorial planning in Galicia, and that's why we're going away. And we invite the Galician Union to do a self-reflective exercise on its total inoperation in urban planning. Nothing else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u137	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Ojea, welcome. It's always difficult to go up this rostrum, especially when it's the first time, because of the responsibility it's supposed to speak on behalf of the Greeks and the Greeks. Welcome, anyway. Mrs. Fernández, I don't think you're clear that the Galician Union works, of course it works. What you don't use and what you don't hold onto is the obsolete and inoperative arguments, as you use to abstain from supporting this manifesto. You can speak to the mayor of San Sadurniño, who gives you the reasons why you supported him, because I think he belongs to his party. Then, agree and then perhaps encourage yourself to support this manifesto; you still have a mouse to rethink it. Because we are fourteen autonomous communities and there are four deputies — some in which you are more than represented and ruling — and the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. It is indicative that we are all for the work of offering collaboration to the Central Government, because this is about working together and cooperating to push for a change in a law implementing necessary legislative measures. Because we're talking about cancelling plans when we're talking about formal vices. That's why this initiative brings the People's Party here today. What part of that important consensus? Yes, of course it's part of an important consensus, because the Galician Union has had an initiative which I don't doubt will continue to grow, which will continue to gain weight. Because there are no political colors here, you do, and there are not, because we all agree on the analysis and proposal of solutions to this conflict. While I was preparing this initiative, and today I am counting on and thanking the support of the Socialist Party and listening to the opposition's lordships, what I could see is that there are, of course — and it is normal — interpretations, that there are nuances, that there are arguments. What is not to receive and understand this Popular Parliamentary Group is that these interpretations, those nuances and arguments are to induce confusion to the Greeks and to the Greeks who may be seeing us and who follow our work. For example, if I have to tell you, Mr. Ojea, and Mrs. Fernández, well, that is already part of her argumentary did, that it is a fixed piece to confuse responsible urbanism with the real estate sector, with urban speculation, as if the management plans were only designed to build housing, forgetting other important supplies such as infrastructure and public services. Even sometimes they want to use and talk about those plans like we're going to liquidate the estate; nothing further. It's that those arguments are far from reality, they're far from the truth, Mrs. Fernández. We're talking about a very complicated, very complex procedure at the time of its processing. And what do you hear? He's still in charge of the Galician Union now. That's just, you see, that's tremendous. Is the Administration now responsible or is it considered illegal planning because the Administration is doing well in processing and there are procedural vices? No one understands this. And it was also rare that they didn't speak or draw out the collation — as they do when we bring these issues as full as the commission — to focus on the Natura 2000 Network. Because they always want to generate this conflict of interest, that shock between economic development and the protection of the environment. Well, we simply have to refer to the letter of accession of autonomous communities of different political colors and see how it is requested that they be compatible — and I read textually — "both in the effort to guide all of us in our walk, in which we turn away from absolutist positions such as that of which everything is worth or by which nothing can be done...". The Natura Network imposes, as Mr. Ojea also said, an obligation of achievement, which is the condition of favourable conservation, and in Galicia that has no discussion, Mrs. Fernández. It sounds like a lie that you don't know there's no possible urban development on the Natura Network. And then I also want to say that we have to overcome, that we are in the 21st century, that we cannot interfere with legal acts, with obsolete rules that are part of the past. Today we came here with the intention of calling for that support for this initiative of the Galician Union, which, yes, has called in Santiago the leaders of urban policies throughout the country to speak of responsible urbanism. Mr Fernández, you were simply talking about the responsibility with which the Autonomous Community of Galicia exercises its powers in urbanism. I know they don't like to hear anything good from the Government, but, at this point, this parliamentary group wants to congratulate both the Galician Union — particularly the Environment Council — for exercising responsible, orderly, sustainable urbanism for over a decade. Does it seem to you that today's regulatory corpus on urbanism in the Galician Union is a deregulation, when we talk about the Land Management Guidelines, the Galician Land Law, the autonomous basic plans, the planning technical standards, the new Land Management Act, about the first Architecture Law in Galicia? More than a decade, Mrs. Fernández, working with a clear objective: no council without planning. Today there are 112 Greek municipalities with an adapted PXOM, 80 since 2009. This translates into a million Galicians who have a modern, legally secure management tool. The German Government — and already to finish, Mr President — is already putting on its part to clarify, advise and make more accessible a matter as complex as urbanism. We're taking one more step in the search for greater legal security for our municipalities. A "yes" of consensus, Mrs Fernández, a "yes" of consensus that this parliamentary group calls for in this chamber, because so do mayors and deputies who represent it; a consensus that has been reached in the rest of Spain and which is requested by this parliamentary group for Galicia. Why? Because we want to go the right way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u139	We begin by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol. There are no amendments. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the restoration of the current regime of exceptions since 2015, which excluded the obligation to self-quota those people who have income as holders of agricultural holdings when they do not exceed certain thresholds of income and economic performance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u140	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Lourenzo Sobral. He was awaiting a transaction with the Socialist Party. I don't know if they got to her. There isn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia regarding the need to care for mental health in the educational field. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u141	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Rosana Pérez. There's a deal that the three groups have reached, they know the three. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Government of the State in relation to the prejudices that the fishing sector was subject to the deployment of marine wind installations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u142	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez. There's a transaction also to which the three groups arrived. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodil? Please. Give him the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u143	Yes, we wanted to call for a point vote, we talked about it and the proposed group accepted it. We want to separate into two blocks: one part would be point 1 and point 5 and the other part would be point 2, point 3 and point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u144	Thank you. Do you accept it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So then we started by voting points 1 and 5. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of points 1 and 5 of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members, on support for the measures of the Government of Spain regarding the tightening of sanctions against the Putin regime and the holding of a call to the Russian President to put an end to the war. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, these two points were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u145	And now we are voting on points 2, 3 and 4. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of points 2, 3 and 4 of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members, on support for the measures of the Government of Spain regarding the tightening of sanctions against the Putin regime and the holding of a call to the Russian President to put an end to the war. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, these points are adopted and this proposal is not a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u146	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Susana Díaz Varela. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted and the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and Da Noelia Otero Lago, on the performances that must take place in Junta de Galicia regarding the compliance of Law 17/2006, the book and the reading of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u147	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Maria Sol Díaz Mouteira. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposal, of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Díaz Mouteira and six other Members, on the assumption by Parliament of Galicia of the Manifesto for the legal security of territorial and urban planning signed by thirteen self-governments in the framework of the Xacobeo 21-22 Meeting by responsible urbanism. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u148	We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u149	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. As has already been reported, there is a change in the agenda, which is to process now a question to the Government. Agenda Change Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the development by the Council of Culture, Education and University of measures provided for in the Strategy for Digital Education 2030
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u150	Whenever you want, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u151	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon and welcome, Counselor. As we all know, the Pandemic of Covid-19 has focused, among other things, on the technological needs of the entire citizenry, because it was necessary to articulate tools in record time for teleworking, teleformation, in most businesses, institutions and also in the homes of society as a whole. The educational field was especially affected by this sociological transformation, and in this sense since the Galician Union, aware of this reality, was also immediately put to work to seek solutions, and for this it formulated the Strategy of Digital Education 2030, a strategy that gives continuity to the long work developed very successfully by the Greek education system. The 2030 Digital Education Strategy has as its general objectives that no one is behind in the process of digitization, a greater presence of digital education and hybrid learning contexts that mix digital and face-to-face, the progressive digitization of everything around the educational world and shorten the digital divide, contribute to the fight against the demographic challenge and consolidate population in rural surroundings. Therefore, this parliamentary group is aware of the importance of this strategy for the education community in Galicia. That's why we asked him the following question: how is the council developing the measures provided for in the 2030 Digital Education Strategy? Nothing else, President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u152	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education, Vocational Training and Universities, Don Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u153	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mr President, we have been working on a goal for more than a decade in Galicia: to train our students to meet the challenges of 21st-century society and to make them better citizens of the future. The dynamics of recent years have shown that the Welsh education system is a good educational system, which forms in quality, in equality, that gives equal opportunities, and this is the result of multiple factors. One of the most significant, undoubtedly, is digitization, which, along with innovation, allows to guarantee and enables advancing in the Welsh educational model and giving a line of continuity to the promoted projects. With regard to the development of the digital skills of students and teachers, a number of programs and initiatives are known to be being implemented in our centres in recent years. The E-Dixgal project, for example, in the next course will have around 60,000 students who are going to study digitally in nearly six hundred educational centers; when we start this project ten years ago, we started absolutely zero. Or perhaps one of the most important issues, which has to do with the teacher's training offer: teacher training in digital skills to later transmit them to students. There are known and recognized projects in the system: Stamback, science clubs, primary robotics, Maker spaces. All of this makes Galicia highlight the issue of innovation and digital education. And comparative statistics, I think, do good justice to the efforts made in recent times. Galicia is the third autonomous community in average number of students per computer for teaching, in particular 2; the average of Spain is 3. We have 2 children for each computer, Spain has 3 students. Galicia is the second autonomous community in average number of computer students connected to the Internet dedicated to teaching, also 2, when the average of Spain is here in 3.5. Galicia is also the first autonomous community as a percentage of centres in virtual learning services, i.e. everything that had to see very much during the pandemic period, to ensure teledoc. We have 91% of the centres with virtual learning contours; in Spain it doesn't reach 70%, almost 20 points more. And Galicia is the fourth autonomous community in technology-related centre projects; in Spain it is 41%, 25 points less. This is the basis for the Digital Education Strategy, and in this digital education strategy, in which we are investing 120 million, we have a number of fundamental aspects, for example the creative poles, for example the digital center plan, or for example the new Digital Education and Innovation Center, the Ciedix, which will start working on the next course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u154	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u155	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for putting forward the lines of work on which the 2030 Digital Education Strategy is based. The truth is that Galicia has its own and differentiated educational model that has to continue to improve every day to keep up, and if it is to be improved, the good results have been achieved in recent years. An educational model where one of the pillars, as you said here, is digitization and digital innovation. And on this line you talked about the creatives in educational centers, the digital center plan, and also the new Galician Center for Education and Digital Innovation. So we'd like to be able to deepen and realize a little more what they consist of, what state these three initiatives are in. Nothing else, president, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u156	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close question, Culture, Education, Vocational Training and Universities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The 2030 Digital Education Strategy is a cluster of various actions, all interrelated to each other, all oriented to the entire educational community, which take into account all academic areas. We quote three of the most significant. One of them is the creative chickens. Creative poles are new spaces that will develop in our centers. These are spaces that will focus on STEM competences, which have technology, which have different specific equipment to favor the development of applications and creative jobs by students. They want to boost creativity, they want to boost educational innovation. We already have an open call, with a total of EUR 8 million, in which we initially set the goal of reaching 220 educational centres. We now have 170 applications for presentation; that is, we have had a very good response from educational institutions, because very little time has been submitted. And here the student will work, along with the teacher, very important aspects, such as artificial intelligence, intensive technologies, 3D, printing, telecommunications, etc., etc. It's a project for the future that will undoubtedly have a great event in education in Galicia. Another aspect we're also working on is the digital center plan. What is the digital centre plan? For it is an instrument that will enable each centre to advance and develop digital skills based on the concrete reality of each of them. We've pushed this course to the so-called Greek Digital Education Network, we have 70 reference centers, where there's a specific professional who somehow coordinates the whole of the centers of its environment, and what we want with this digital centre plan is to design the skills, skills, training, the need for specific equipment in the digital field in order to promote a real digital educational project in all the centers. We're talking about starting in the next course, 22-23, developing them. And also, within this strategy, one of the major pillars is the impetus of the Galego Center for Digital Education and Innovation, the Ciedix, which is located in the Fontán building, in the City of Culture, and which is oriented towards enhancing and accelerating the digital transformation of Welsh education. In this way, we want to train the professor and innovate on digitization. Of course, in all this project, always, always, the student is the center; one must always stimulate creativity and we must always understand technology as a means and not an end in itself. In short, we have an advanced path, we've done a lot, there's still a lot to go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u159	...and basically with those strategies what we think is in the future of our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u160	Thank you. We're waiting to see if the rural councillor gets here. [[Pause.]] Da Maria González Albert and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the neighborhood property of the mountains in common hand
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u161	Mrs. González Albert has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Counselor. You don't want to debate this interpellation, which we've been forwarding for a month, so I'm glad you're finally here to be able to debate it. I would also like to greet the representatives of the neighbouring mountain organizations who accompany us in this debate, in this call. We've come today to talk about the future of this country, about the future of this country, because to talk about neighboring mountain is to talk about the future, about Galicia, about its territory, about its people, about its development. So it's talking about planning the country, about the potential and strengths we have and our aspirations for the future, and it's therefore talking about the country model, about whether we want Galicia to be a polyedral land, with a living interior, which has services, which is dynamic, or whether we want to make that interior of the country into a land of sacrifice, depopulation and the service of businesses, whether it's woodland, energy or any other kind of thing. And we are in this context at a time that for us is key, hence the relevance of this interpellation. As I say, a month ago we had to discuss this issue. So when the BNG brought this debate to the agenda of this plenary, we found ourselves in the first days of the prior consultations for this new Common-handed Neighborhood Mount Law, which was published at the Galician Board's Transparency Portal. First of all, then the internal questions of the People's Party, which again — I must say — have served their own interests, have done that today, I repeat, when we can finally talk about this issue within this Chamber, we have already finished that period of introduction on the web yesterday. However, this is still a fundamental debate, and it is not just a production model debate, it is a debate — as I say — territorial. According to data from the Register of Vehicles in the Common Man, there are currently -- you know it better than I, of course -- than 3,000 mountains classified by provincial jury, namely 3,312; they represent nearly 700,000 hectares of land in our country, specifically also 664,230 hectares; of that total, therefore, a very significant part of the total of more than 2,00,000 hectares that are qualified in one form or another as a mountain in Galicia. They have a non-homogenous distribution. Ourense, therefore, is the province with the most neighbouring mountains, with 39.2% of the total; Lugo goes after, with 31%; Pontevedra, 21.7%; and only 9.1% in the Coruña. If we go to the board's website, we see an official data on the number of common people, taking into account the right title, which goes to 122,000, almost 125,000, even if we calculate all the data, it would be that more than half a million people, a fifth, therefore, of the population of this country, is the common owner of mountains. The figures — I don't abuse much of the figures, because, in addition to that, the Government is often doing so — they indicate, therefore, the greatest importance at the surface level, at the social level, of this type of collective property on earth. They indicate something even more important, if possible, that is the reflection of a will. We believe that the neighboring mountain, the survival of this neighbouring mountain, reflects the resilience of local communities and the importance these mountains have for the survival of our country and for the survival and reproduction of peasant houses and the agricultural economy in our country; and that survival, Counsellor, will agree with me that it is not a baladi thing. Throughout history, particularly from the 19th century onwards, from the successive demortizations and the following liberal constitutions also from that nineteenth century, which only recognized two types of property: the public and the private, a series of attacks have appeared on the neighbouring property, on the communal property of the land in this country, which only by reaching franchise for the first time was able to effectively affect that type of property. Because, although it was forbidden in theory, it continued to work in practice until — I say — the arrival of the dictatorship of Francisco Franco, which began, among other things, a massive forestation in the neighboring mountains. But all these attacks -- they did -- had a common element: they all came from outside; they were all attacks that came from Madrid to a form of collective property of the land that was owned by Galicia. And yet now you have the dubious honour — I must say deliberately — of the first wave of attacks on the neighboring mountain that comes from within our own country. And it's an honor that you have that I didn't want to carry on my back — I have to say — Because it is tremendous: you, who exercise the duty of government in this country and which, therefore, should lead — or we believe you should lead — your defence, are actually acting by promoting a theft of the neighboring mountain, which has led, among other things, to the promotion of a popular legislative initiative by the Galician Montes Community Organization. Because there is a need for a law of mountains that serves the communal neighborhood and of Galician society as a whole; and these are not my words; these are words of the newly elected president of the Galician Organization of Montes Communities, Josephus Alfredo Pereira, whom I want to bless twice, first, by his re-election this last weekend, at the VII Congress of Mountain Communities, which was held in Moaña; and also by his trajectory of decades and decades of work — like his companions and companions — for the benefit of the communal property of the mountain. [[Applause]] And I talked about the 7th Congress of Mountain Communities and I'm sure that the people of the organization, like us, missed the Board of Galicia, which was represented by the Government of this country at that congress of mountain communities where very important issues were being discussed in our country. And so we are right now, Counselor, in another direct confrontation, a model confrontation. A model of a mountain thought by and for the absenteeisms, who live in cities, therefore a gentle mountain, which does not remember, that is managed through forest service companies, energy services; or a mountain that allows the guarantee of the survival of our rural, which allows, therefore, to develop Galicia as a whole, that generates wealth, that generates employment in the territory, biodiversity and territorial balance. Or, in other words, two models that we could put into a living Galician face of a dead Galician. And that's what we're talking about, because the mountain communities are currently facing a lot of problems, a lot of problems; problems arising, on an important part, from the depopulation, from the failure of generational relief, and from the disinterest of the Galician Union as well because of its survival. They also face significant threats at this time. I'm going to say five -- I could say a lot more -- clear and obvious threats that are on the table. On the one hand, the wind boom, which we can add to the photovoltaic that comes behind, which thanks to you and the Law 9/21, of administrative simplification, left in the hands of companies in the sector —torticious, totally torturing — the figure of public utility, going through the arch of triumph, in addition to all these issues, the fact that the neighboring mountains are indivisible, inalienable, irreparable and unpredictable. We use — or use — the figure of the public utility to root all these issues. On the other hand, the excessive forestry that this country has, linked to a monoculture, and that you also promote and encourage -- I have to say -- absolutely suicide for this country. We look like a suicide model. Do you think there's little forest area to this day in Galicia? Is there a bit? Hypothecan — I believe — with this model any possibility, first, of recovering our useful agricultural surface, which today is largely lost. So they hypothesize, too, our fundamental food sovereignty; we are living in a situation where the importance of this issue is clear. And it is also made an amendment to the whole that announces the bomb and dish an increase of at least one million more cubic metres of wood per year — Eucalyptus wood — which is being demanded if this great project comes out ahead of it. The Land Recovery Act is being another threat to the neighbouring mountain, and this is tremendous; a law that had to serve, which had to be a great opportunity for our rural and which are turning you into a Trojan horse to do with land fast and low cost; which, of course, included this advertising and non-existent—always we say—the moratorium of the eucalyptus, which beats face-to-face — as I say — with the project of Others. The depopulation — I mentioned it — has been mentioned. And the fifth big threat is yourself, the People's Party itself, which is the greatest threat facing the neighboring mountains right now. You were in a hurry, they used the 2022 Budget Accompanying Act to introduce important changes to the 1989 Neighborhood Mount Law. They introduced changes in two directions — you know it perfectly — on one side, to transfer the temporal title of the neighboring mountains, the public, to the municipalities in case there is no rector, and therefore by eliminating their neighboring character by blow and feathers, because one thing is the management and another is the title. And, on the other hand, in the possibility that for purely bureaucratic reasons — we have spoken about it — this neighboring mountain may be declared in a state of severe abandonment and may be delivered to forest or timber companies for periods of 50 years. We understand that a law of importance in the territory and organization of this country that regulates neighboring mountains can never be changed by the back door, as they have done. You guys now started a procedure that had to be the starting point for any change in the law. We have made it clear that you wanted to provide land with the Land Recovery Act -- we have talked about it, and I know that it is very bad for you to say this. It's your star law, it's your law that's advertising everywhere, all over the press. And we see it. This weekend they published a report — and I have to say that it is important — of the results of the Land Recovery Act. And there's a need for land. And the most easy-to-access land is the neighboring mountains in common hands, especially within the country, where there is depopulation, where the governing board is not at its best and where there is no desire to collaborate with these communities so that they can actually function, they can recover and sit down the foundations of fixation of population in the territory and of creating wealth, but it's much easier to do with them and make use of them for businesses. We ask you a series of questions — you have them in writing — if you really think neighboring mountains are a figure to protect, if it's a property formula that has worked for this country, if it can work in the future and if you think it needs to be promoted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u164	I'm done, Mr. President. There's the rest of the questions, I'm not going to repeat them because you have them. But I do want to end with a question: when a person — a citizen or a citizen — accesss, for example, the consulting portal and wants to access information from the neighboring mountains, he has to go to a sub-pestan within the forest sector. And this is all a statement of intentions, a statement of principles of what you understand is and what can be the neighboring mountain in Galicia. [[Applause]] For now, nothing else. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u165	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u166	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have the custom in the interpellations to answer the questions asked to me; therefore, beyond all the questions you have referred to earlier — by the way, I thank you for the appointment — for I will try, at least on this first occasion, to answer the questions you have made. I also greet the representatives of the neighboring mountains in common; some of them also had the opportunity to see them in the presentation of the twenty-five years of the Vigo Neighboring Mountains Commonwealth. And, well, of course we're going to move what we're doing in this area. But first I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to have made it clear that today — and I tell the Members of the People's Party — we are faced with a chapter more than the strategy of the Nationalist Block in Wales: we must oppose everything the People's Party does, whether it's good for Galicia or something — do it! — previously defended by the Nationalist Block in Wales. And this strategy is especially relevant to the issue of the competences of my counsellor, because rural disillusionment is one of the points of the Block discourse; if this falls, part of the speech falls. It has passed, ladies and gentlemen, with the Law of the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. Oian!, a law that entitles the earth's research faculty in Galicia's rustic soil to Galicia's Junta turns against a nationalist party, so that it will remain in the hands of the central government. And now it happens with the so necessary and demanding updating of a law, of a figure — which I already warn and transfer — which is of utmost importance in our country — you have said the data — as are the neighbouring mountains in common. Look, to argue with what I'm saying — which is telling me here a story totally contrary to what you were defending — I would like you all to have this bill in mind that was introduced in 2009 by the Nationalist Block Galego, specifically on October 8, 2009. [[The Rural Medium Counsellor displays a document.]] I would say that to me it is certainly the political legacy that left in the forest of Alfredo Suárez Canal and Alberte Blanco. One regulation — as long as I speak to them, and we will refer to my intervention — which had as one of the biggest defenders the person you cited at the Galician Forest Council with the minutes, Alfredo Pereira. I mean, at that point, I was saying that what had to be done with the neighboring mountains in common was what was in this bill. And after reading carefully — as I always do — the explanatory statement of his interpellation, I would tell him that he is very far away — and more after his intervention — from the present reality, but also from the postulates that were in this bill. And I'll start with the context, to see where we are and what we're doing. And I also tell you clearly that you can record me in audio or video -- or in both formats -- because what I'm going to say is something as true as my first name is Gonzalez. Look, under no circumstances and under no concept does the Galician Union suppress the proceedings and the guarantees of the proper processing of the law; on the contrary, I'm going to argue with it. They're trying to misreport by moving that we don't carry out the right procedures, but what have we done so far? To authorize prior consultation on the future Law of neighboring mountains in common, public consultation; by the way, the deadline — as you say yesterday — has ended. A first mandatory procedure for drawing up — careful — a bill, not going to be a bill, is going to be a government project. A previous public consultation that was opened on the Transparency Portal, fully accessible to all organizations, also the Galga de Montes Neighbors en Man Comun, so that all stakeholders could issue opinions, ratings or approaches that they considered appropriate; you, too, the members of the Nationalist Block Galego. Because they know that we, of course, counsellors and the whole government, always seek that dialogue and participation to enrich our legislation. But, look, in addition to this mandatory procedure — public consultation prior to the project — we also commit to this same year's January Forest Council that we would then produce a white book for the whole sector to discuss the reforms so necessary — and we will see — that requires the law of neighboring mountains in common. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a fully participatory process. But he's, in addition, sued by everyone. In this bill you did it if you were asked that the articles dedicated to the neighboring mountains in common and their update were articles 34 to 71. It also called for this review in recommendation 53 of the 2018 Forest Commission, among its recommendations. It has been said that you voted against the dictatorship but voted in favour of this recommendation. And by the way, he also stepped forward at the Forest Council, as I say, of the 18th of January, in which the Galician Mountain Organization in Common Hand was present, which also participated in the central plan working group, whose director CEM also ordered to make this update. I therefore believe that it is a necessity demanded by the whole sector, by all parliamentary groups, and that we are collecting as such. So, ladies and gentlemen, it remains obvious that we are talking about a need — as I say — detected years ago and that we have to deal with. And by means of, of course, there are things that are urgent -- and we're going to see them -- which is what we picked up in last year's end law, in the Accompanying Law, as you did when you ruled. Because, if you like, then I'll tell you what changes they put into the Law of neighboring Mountains in common hand through the Accompanying Law. So I'm going to answer the first question clearly, but clearly meridian for everyone. Do you think the neighborhood property of the neighboring hills in common is a figure to protect? All the time, yes. It's more, not only a figure to protect but also to drive, because of the importance it has in the whole territory -- you said it very well -- and in addition to the capacity -- and this is important -- that you have to attract and generate income and benefits to all the municipalities, who are neighbors and neighbors here, of Galicia. And I'm telling you more, ladies and gentlemen — ladies of the Block, the ones who wrote the interpellation — you have to speak with property, and you can't privatize what's already private. And the neighboring mountains in common hand — and they should know — are a form of collective property of a Germanic nature, according to the regulatory framework that regulates it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see what the block bill said, because that's how we know the official position. Look, Article 9.1 of the Block Bill, Galician Mountain Law, said that according to its title, mountains can only be public or private. But let's see, Mr Bará, that's what they said: public or private. And where do the neighboring mountains put in common hand the Block in the year 2009? They say, "The neighboring mountains in common are private mountains in co-ownership, figure proper to Galician civil law." The only thing we don't agree with in this definition is that we call it "Galicia" instead of "Galiza", the rest of us agree completely. Let us therefore leave a sterile debate which has absolutely no meaning. What is really important is to maintain the ineligibility and imprecisibility and impossibility of selling the neighboring mountains in common. Well, I have the right to cheat on me -- you'll understand -- because they're hard to eat, right? "Inalienable," Mr. President, now came out; at that moment I didn't... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do we intend to do with the updating of the law, gentlemen? First of all, the maintenance of the sustainable productive capacity of the lands of the neighbouring mountains in common hand, the valuation of all their resources and forest services, their multifunctionality, improving their organization and management and, of course, their protection. And this has a lot to do with the legislative amendments we introduced into the Law of Measures of this year 2021, which you introduced through the Law of Measures of the Year 2007. Do they guarantee the protection of that property form? No doubt, yes. I'd like to argue with him. We remember that these changes refer to the situation of the non-existent community holding the neighboring mountains or that they are in a situation of severe abandonment or degradation. They say in their inquiry that these changes intend to privatize the neighboring mountains in common to hand them over to forest and timber companies. That is why the Bloc, the representative of the Greek people — who say — supports the popular legislative initiative on this subject presented to the Glaga Organization, in which, by the way, the article on situations of severe abandonment is empty, I do not know whether they have forgotten or because they understand that this situation is not to be regulated. Look, the regulation of the aforementioned situations (severe abandonment or deterioration or degradation and in addition to the absence of community) is a necessity derived from the fact that "it cannot be obvious that an important part of the neighbouring mountains in common are not managed because of the absence of people who do so or even because of the impossibility given the aging of the neighbors." Do you know where this is? In the explanatory statement of the proposed law of the Nationalist Block Galego. And it is also said in that explanatory statement that it is to create a mechanism to manage the surface of these mountains declared in a severe state of abandonment or degradation. Of course, ladies and gentlemen — and we will all agree there — what does not guarantee the future of the neighboring mountains in common is that those who do not have recognized neighbourly communities in bad times are being filled with evil, which is why to look for a formula that allows those mountains to be cared for while that community does not rule, which is what we all want. But let's go with what we propose in our Accompanying Law. Look, in that proposal — I suppose the Members of the Socialist Party will agree, because it has been negotiated with the Socialist Party — we recognize an interim title. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you make a public management contract for the forest administration to manage those mountains, there must be someone with title, and if there is no community, we have to have a temporary title. And as a novelty — as I say — that is dealt with by the Socialist Party, we do put it either as either the Forest Administration or we give it the possibility, that we can choose, to which he can choose, to the county where the mountain lies. During the Bipartite you said that you had done it, that you had led the management of the forest administration, but that the benefits were for the municipality; and we understand that you could be given the opportunity to manage the municipality, of course always with the supervision of the forest administration. But where we have the discrepancy is how to exercise cautionary management, Mrs. González Albert. Look, the PP proposes in article 27 of this law, of the Law of neighboring Mountains in common hand, that management, when there is no community, be done by whom do you know? For the forest administration or for the instrumental entities of the autonomous public sector. There's no chance they're going anywhere else. You search the law. Do you know what the Block said in his bill? He said that management was done directly by the forest or indirect administration. But when he was talking about indirect management, he said that they could well be public enterprises — and so he agrees with the PP — but also private companies by competition or other forms of recruitment provided for in the legislation in force. But who wants to give the mountains that have no community to private companies but the Block that I proposed in 2009? Ladies and gentlemen, what was the solution if it were given...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u168	I'm reading what's in the bill. But I say, what was the solution if it was given to a private company and the community? Could the community immediately stay with the mountain? No, no, no, no. What did the bill say? Something that makes quite common sense: that communities could never get back to the possession of the mountain until they had finished the deadline corresponding to the longest shift of woodland exploitation, specified in the forest management instrument of the mountain, which is the same thing we're saying now. I'm done here, because I'm left to answer the question of questioning the situation of severe abandonment or degradation. But I would really ask you to work together for an instrument, which I will then transfer with clarity, which is fundamental to the future of our mountain and which we respect completely and absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u170	One month waiting and it turns out that I had to have questioned Alfredo Suárez Canal; I was wrong about legislation. [[Applause]] In Commission 7 we talk a lot about neighboring mountains, we talk a lot about mountains in common and we always start from absolutely different visions. Because if you don't know what kind of property we're talking about, it's very difficult to normize on this issue. The neighboring mountain is a community property, a community property, not a private property. And I think if we start from this question, that there are three different types of properties, then we can start talking. If you're not able to distinguish the private property of community property, of course, we've already started a basic problem. In any case, he didn't obviously answer the questions that we raised in this call, I'm going to wait for his second turn, because we really want him to answer the questions that we asked him. Because we want to know how they want to ensure, as they will ensure that the transfer of the title, for example, from the communal mountains to a municipality, or management by a private company for up to fifty years, as you said and approved in the accompanying law to the budgets this year, will not collide with the possibility of renting, hiring, occupations or contracts to third parties and expropriating those mountains in common. I don't even get into the energy issue, because that's where the neighboring Mount Law is loaded directly, and it matters to you three chickens, I told you at first. The problem with this -- and we've always repeated in the commission too -- is that they don't like this kind of property, and point. They consider it a delay, they consider it a problem for the management of the territory. You're much better connected with companies, you don't want livestock, you want farmers, you don't want farmers, you don't want farmers and you don't want neighbors and communal neighbors, you want companies that manage the mountain. And repeat it over and over again every time they have a chance to do it. [[Applause]] Because in the realm where you move and work, that's what they're interested in. And this is very much in line with the idea of a community property, which is therefore democratic and collective, where we have to agree and collectively manage a territory. In his public consultation, premeditatedly little explicit — I have to say — although there was one who was most explicit later, but several key points of the legislative reform that they intend to face remain clear. The BNG never said that this law should not be reformed; we think that it must be reformed, it must be old-fashioned, it must be updated, but it can be updated in two ways. We can opt for a law that promotes and defends that form of property, that understands that this is a way that worked in Galicia and that wants to bring it into the future, and that works in the future, or that it will load that form of property because it doesn't interest you. And you're opting for this second option. They're talking about updating the figure of neighbor or neighbor commune, which is the euphemism of the century to tell us that they intend to give in to juridical people like neighbors and communal neighbors. And they also want to enable tools to deliver the neighboring mountains to private companies. It's just that they did it in the Accompanying Law, and you just confirmed it. There was no need, which we can read, but you just confirmed it. We also make concrete proposals for the new standard, because we do understand it — I repeat — as necessary. And we'll do it officially when the project comes to this parliament, which I understand will come at some point. We will do the same if, in fact, we are discussing here this popular legislative initiative which is preparing the Galician Organization of Monte Communities. We want them to block that type of property, as a form — I repeat — distinct from public property and private property. If in Portugal they are able to include it in their Constitution — art. 80 — in Galicia, we can choose at least to defend a form of property that characterizes us and enriches us. We also ask you to incorporate the demands of the sector as lines within this new Law of neighboring mountains. We took this matter to the committee in April. What did you vote for? I don't know if you know, but they voted not; I tell you they voted not. What we ask, explicitly: to incorporate the demands of the new law, to prioritize the strengthening of the brotherly character, they voted that they do not; the improvement of their assembly functioning, they voted that they did not; the improvement of their democratic functioning, they voted that they did not; to achieve a multifunctional and sustainable neighborhood, they voted that they did not; and a proper taxation to the figure and functions of the neighboring mountains, they voted that they did not. Are these strategic lines wrong? You're against this. Do you want to defend the neighboring mountains? They say so, but they vote against them. So, in the end, what matters are the acts, not the declarations and the chest blows that we make here in Parliament. And you have the DOG and that's where you defend things. [[Applause]] I repeat that we have already taken them in April and voted against it, because they don't hide. So you're hiding a little more today, but in the commission they're more explicit, don't hide. Because what they want is not to improve the functioning of mountain communities, it's laminas, especially in the interior, where they're weaker, where many of them're not working, where there's more problems of generational relief. And there are two options: to choose to help them and look for tools so that they can recover those joints, so they can get that management back from the territory, or put in a company, which is their model; of course, it's not the model of the BNG. I'm done, Mr. President. The claims we have raised, like those of mountain communities, are not new. We are in the month of the Letters, the other day were the Galagas Letters, there was a central event there in Corgomo, in my land, there were many people of this parliament there, his companion was the councilman of Culture — who just left — who was the president of Parliament, there were many people here who have already heard the demands of Florencio Delgado Gurriaran in the forty years in relation to the survival of the mountains, to whom he assumed the entry of the eucalyptus against biodiversity. But we're talking about 80 years ago. You are not responsible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u172	...that the words of Florence become reality in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u173	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Shut up, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, with Florencio Delgado Gurriaran, with that infinite Galicia, we must all think effectively of this greatness of Galicia, which, of course, includes the neighboring mountains in common. And I answered clearly, Mrs. González Albert, but clearly Meridian. Over and over again, we are not going to touch the essential nature of the neighboring mountains in common hand and, therefore, we say with all clarity that their intrinsic characteristics, which are those that define the figure, have to be maintained. [[Applause]] And I refer to what you put in the bill, article 9.1, which you know perfectly well that by Civil Code only a public property and a private property can be regulated. That is a private property of a collective nature without quotas of that there is absolutely no doubt, and so I assure you that in the law that is written under my mandate and with the collaboration of the whole sector will remain, without any doubt at all either. [[Applause]] What I like, ladies and gentlemen of this parliament, do you know what it is? That the mountains be profitable, that they be multifunctional and that they can have profitability precisely for the communal neighbors, because that will be what allows a rural living in our territory, because of the importance of the figure of the neighboring mountains in common. It is a figure that came from then on to remain and both the Nationalist Block Galego and safe—if it governs—the Socialist Party —sure it does not, but the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego or we will continue to maintain this figure. [[Murmurs.]] Look, there's something else that certainly seems contradictory, because I know they're doing the edges, seeing how they can attack the law of recovery, man!, see if we can get in there. I told you the other day, to steal lands from the neighboring mountains to give them to the Recovery Law. At this point, there are twenty-two villages in processing and more than fifteen polygons -- that we're going to see them -- for wine, for profit -- yes, greedy entrepreneurs -- that we want them to grow obviously, but we're talking about those already in the territory, because in Montederramo we don't have to bring anyone out, or on Sil's Stop, or elsewhere we're working on. There's not a single square centimeter of any of the law's recovery instruments at this point in processing in neighboring mountain in common. But how can I discredit more what you're saying, who comes here saying it without any noise at all? Is that it? No, Your Honor, I have to tell you that we're going there to see because they're going to declare themselves immediately all those polygons. By the way, some very interesting to get back to farming and livestock. But as I want to answer your question and I spoke before the situation of the disappearance of the community, I repeat: if there is no community, we have no title. That is why we decree the provisional title figure, which, of course, if the community is reconstituted, which is what we want, disappears that provisional title. But you think that if the council assumes that provisional title and wants to sign a public management contract with the forest administration, we have to have a holder to be able to sign that contract. We are going to talk about the situation of severe abandonment or degradation, which is also another of the issues that we are dealing with this year 2021, with the only objective of being able to act already on those mountains, which are in a serious state of abandonment or degradation, because logically they are not in the situation that we all — we are sure — want. This was what was argued; I've heard it before in the explanatory statement in his proposed Galician Mountain Law of 2009. And I'm told here in the inquiry that for purely bureaucratic reasons a neighboring mountain can be declared in state of abandonment or degradation, so that once the declaration is made the mountain may be delivered to the management of a forest or timber company for a period of 50 years. Look, what you call "bureaucratic reasons" is the same in the substance that justified the statement of severe abandonment in your 2009 bill. It's the same practically; shaded, indeed, but in the substance it's the same. And if the severe abandonment was declared, would the Block allow companies to give in? The answer, ladies is yes. Curious thing. And just as in the case of the community's absence, in this case the community could only recover the gravely abandoned mountain occupied by a company with the Block's rules if the longer period of forest exploitation on that mountain was ending by the corresponding company. Ladies and gentlemen, have a little coordination and consideration on what you are moving about. I repeat, I must also say to you, "Hey, we're still in time to expand the popular legislative initiative, which in article 24 does not regulate any serious state of abandonment and degradation. I don't know if it's because they don't want me to have that statement or because it hasn't been collected; I don't know exactly. In any case, I'm sure if you can work on changing the law, we'll be able to work in this field. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the German Government is fully believed: the highest defence of an essential figure of the Greek mountains, such as the neighbouring mountains in common, fully prepared for the creation of the White Paper, the collaboration of the Forest Council and of all this Parliament to hold a peaceful and fully participatory debate to consensual proposals for improvement of its regulation; let us not forget that it is the year 1989. And the main purpose must be to ensure at all times the effective management of the neighboring mountains and by extension of the Galician mountain. An update that allows us to set up a useful policy tool to effectively implement all those initiatives that we have to lead to our mountains. A few mountains that, as you well said, are very important in our territory, and we have to maintain their current legal configuration — I repeat — without any doubt in their essential configuration and advance in their effective management. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm done telling you that I would like you in this area, which, as you say, is also very important, Mrs. González Albert, I think that transcendence of all this leads us to talk to counsellors and leads us to speak in full, not to be saying that we oppose issues because through proposals we have no law one posture or another. I think it's important to talk here and deal with these issues, precisely within the scope of a consensus law. So I'd ask them to do the procedures we're going to make if they're going to come up with proposals that they might have lived up to that update of the Law of neighboring Manganese to be all up to what the rural reality of Galicia requires us to do. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u175	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the distribution of public funds to local entities through agreements
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u176	Mr Bará has the floor to formulate this interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u177	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Mrs. Vázquez, has touched your face, has not come what has to come. Nice to have you! [[Laughter]] I wanted, first of all, to congratulate you on this high set of chairs that have provided us in recent weeks in this example also of circular economy or circular politics. He's going to Madrid, Mr. Fexoo, he's stuck there, we know, the attractiveness of the "paradise of freedom." Then Mr. Rueda of rebound is President. Then Mr. Diego Calvo too; in this case not to rebound because he was very excited, Mr. Rueda told us so. Not the others, but Diego Calvo was very excited. I couldn't resist. Finally, he spoke clearly: body to earth that comes ours, that would be said in such and such language. Then it turns out that later in this chair game too Mrs. Elena Muñoz, Senator, had to come here too, placed in the second vice-presidency, and that chair covered Mr. Fexoo, delighted to get stuck and live in his beloved Madrid, who is really in love with Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] Relax that I'm still starting. Relax, relax. Don't hurry up, you have to have a little fit, even if it's almost 6:00 p.m., you have to have a little... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u178	Let's go to the conventions. Let's start over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u179	Let's get to the point. Well, of all this, Mr. President, there was one thing clear: the machinery of the Union and of the People's Party of Galicia works in the service of the campaign strategy of the People's Party of Attack to the Moncloa It is so. [[Applause]] And you know what this is called? It's called the partisan use of institutions, the partisan use of the Government of Galicia, which serves the headquarters of the People's Party of Genoa. And I don't know if you've been elected, Mrs Vázquez, I think you do or don't -- you're going to Madrid on Monday. There goes Mr. Rueda, Mr. Calvo, Mrs. Candia, Mr. Baltar and the others receive instructions on Monday. And then they apply here in the Government of the Union the instructions of the People's Party of Madrid. That's called not serving Galicia, but serving the interests of the People's Party. It's absolutely clear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u180	Let's go to the conventions, Mr. Bará. Let's go to local conventions. Do you know what's wrong with this? Then they'll answer him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u181	The starting point of this question, Mrs Vázquez, is the balance, the inheritance that Mr Rueda leaves, the former vice president, who was responsible for cooperation with the councils; now the substitute did not have to come well today, but you are. Well, this balance can be summed up in three main ideas: The first is the failure to comply with the demands and agreements signed with the Fegamp; an absolute none of the Fegamp as a representative body of the municipalities, of all political forces, by the way. The second is budgetary ricketsism in the transfers from Together to Town Councils; although here we would enter another debate that has other causes. And the third, which to me is the most serious in democratic terms, is the partisan distribution of public funds that you have been practicing since 2009, in an absolutely perverse use of public money to benefit from neighbouring municipalities and to punish municipalities of other parties, not municipal governments. You do what you're doing is to punish and discriminate against the people who live in those municipalities, which is not the same. And that's intolerable, that's unacceptable. And in these years we have to say that there have been notable advances by the Greek institutions, in the case of deputies, in a more equitable and transparent division. Yes, indeed, the data are there to prove it, but not in all Members, because there was an exception. Guess what it's like. There was one who didn't follow that path. And also on the side of the board. In the case of Junta we have multiple examples of partisan use in the distribution of public funds through that practice that you often use, which are the conventions, deciding to which municipalities give the public money. I have to say, Mrs. Vázquez, that his councillor beats all the records, he has the gold medal, in the partisan distribution of funds across several pathways. And today I am going to refer to some, above all, one that seems scandalous to me, which is how you share the money from the Hurbe plan, as they have distributed over these thirteen years. And I have to tell you, Mrs. Vázquez, that it was a true party party. In these three hundred and twenty-five years, 150 million euros have been distributed by agreements to the finger, and more than ninety-five percent to the People's Party councils, with absolute rejection. I asked for article 9 the investment documentation of the Hurbe plan. It took them two and a half years to deliver a documentation after he had brought the matter to a commission, and here are the data, which they sing. They're a little made-up, actually, because you guys made a little trap. They've put on the list the funding that's been for grants in recent years, part of the money. They had 6-7 million euros. They removed part by grant. Of course, there was no other one there, they had to enter the other municipalities. That's why the distribution at the end is a bit of a makeup. But yet, more than ninety-five percent of this list are agreements granted to the People's Party councils, after the corresponding mayor or mayor passed through his office. And in 2020, Hurbe plan, which are for urbanization works and public space equipment, look: of twenty-eight conventions, twenty-seven to the People's Party councils. This is a little suspicious at least. Data from 2021, here was a call for grants, but still sixty-four conventions, fifty-five People's Party, 86%. And I'm saying that other municipalities have entered, because part of the money has been taken out by summoning grants, and there they have nothing left but to give to other municipalities, logically. We're hoping they'll do with the 7 million they're on the 2022 budget, if they're going to continue with these practices, because we're in an election year and we're afraid of the worst. Of the total transfers to the municipalities, which are about four hundred million euros, this amount goes into three parts: one from the Local Cooperation Fund, where there is a distribution by objective criteria logically; secondly, grants, and thirdly, agreements. And what we've been asking for is the German municipalist movement, the Fegamp, is that the subsidies, but above all the agreements are incorporated into the Local Cooperation Fund, with which we could have a bag there of about EUR 200 million, which would allow an objective, non-partisan distribution of these funds, as they are doing, by the way, the deputies of the Coruña, Pontevedra and Lugo, who have made great progress in this direction. And here's the data, which is indisputable. Yes, yes, Mrs. Candia is funny too, but that's right, there's the data, they sing; it's not opinable, it's data. So what did we come here to propose? Well, what he's been asking for all these years is Fegamp. Are you willing to meet Fegamp's demands? For example, the local Covenant signed in 2006 has been signed for 16 years. Do you want to keep this covenant? Do you want, as Fegamp asked, to take on the services and economic obligations currently provided by the municipalities without competence, such as the costs of the child and primary education centres, the municipal drug-related assistance units, the middle-school professional conservatories, the health centres, the peace courts? That's what they're asking of Fegamp. Third, to demand the approval of an autonomous law of participation in the income of the Autonomous Community of the Greek Town Councils, consensual with the Fegamp. Are you going to support this? Fourthly, to request the progressive integration into the Local Cooperation Fund of the annual aid and subsidies to local authorities by the Autonomous Community. Do you agree with this? And I told him that in the deputies, less than in Ourense, there has been an important change in these years. I can then expand on the second one. But in the Coruña, when Mr. Diego Calvo ruled it, there were 43 million of the Plan of Works and Services, in 2019 it was 92 million. In Pontevedra it went from 30 million to 43 million, divided with objective criteria. It's a big advance, won't you tell me? And today Lugo shares 21.5 million with objective criteria of distribution, which is also a breakthrough. In Ourense they practice juanpalomism, it's "I cook it, I eat it," give it to all the municipalities 51,000 euros, all the same. Well, then there's other ways they get more money. Then there's the back door, the circulatory door here, the rotating door... finally, there's other ways. [[Laughter]] But for all of them, it doesn't matter what population they have, how old they are, what geographic dispersion they have. In any case, it's an absolutely ridiculous amount. And I can make a comparison between the Town Councils of Lugo and the Town Councils of Ourense, which to many municipalities even at the PP of Ourense they would like to pass to another province to receive the amounts they receive by these plans the Town Councils in other provinces. So — to finish — what the Union does, what it does also the House of Ourense, what the People's Party does is absolutely scandalous. It's an example of moral misrepresentation. And this is called discrimination, it's called partisanism, and it's called -- I have to say it in every letter --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u183	...sectarianism, it's sectarianism. [[Applause]] And that's why — to finish —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u185	I would like to ask you, Counsellor, if you will change these rules of play and if you will meet all these demands that I told you you did in the last few years and also last year the Local Cooperation Commission at Fegamp.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u186	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u188	Thank you. Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mr. Bará. I see you're very concerned about the positions of the People's Party, whether they're getting stuck or not. To me, the truth is, what I'm worried about is that you don't control Mr. Nestor Rego at all, and that they say something here and in Congress they say the opposite. [[Laughter]] Yesterday it was pathetic, it was pathetic for you to abandon the yellow gloves to your luck after a bill was introduced in which it was asked to preserve the yellow gloves, because they are the ones who keep the territory, they are the ones who plant so that the birds can then eat, they are the ones who can the trees so that the bees can pollinate, they are the real caregivers of the environment. [[Applause]] And before that, you guys did what they did in Madrid? Well, to say not to that bill saying that the wolf is in danger of extinction, but the sheep are not in danger of extinction. [[Murmurs.]] So you worry a little more about Mr. Néstor Rego, tell the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks, tell the truth to the people of our country, and forget a little about Mr. Feijóo because I'm sure everything he does will be thinking about and about Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Having said that, this inquiry could actually come to any member of the government. I wanted to be here because you really like the Hurbe plan and therefore wanted to explain it to you. And the first thing I can say to you is -- no, if you don't ask me so that's not the question either, if you don't get nervous -- that since the Galician Union, from all the councils, we guarantee at all times equal treatment to the 300 municipalities. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] And it's done now since Galician Union. No mayor will be able to say that he is not heeded by telephone, that he is not given an answer, that the relevant agreements are not signed when possible. But others that we've been in government if we can say that if anyone was a sectarian it was at that time impasse, those three and a half years or four years in which BNG and PSOE ruled. I was the mayor of a town called Melide and suffered. I know perfectly well how you acted. Having said that, and as we act strictly in compliance with the rules of subsidies, we must tell them that transparency is total. It's just that you don't even have to ask for it in writing; we give it in writing, tell it in commission, I come here to answer. But it's just that they're on the transparency page all the agreements signed by the Galician Union with the various municipalities. Having said this, you've always tried to distort by talking about customer politics that makes Galician Union, and they've been doing this for thirteen years, and it seems you don't get bored. And that's not the case. This is not because we act under a number of principles, which are the principles of cooperation, coordination, active assistance and mutual information, which is what we do with the municipalities. And with the only objective of looking for the improvement of the living conditions of all the Greeks, living where they live, because we think about the Greeks, we don't think about who rules in every county. We cooperate with all the municipalities regardless of their political colour, and it is done through two mechanisms. Of these cooperation mechanisms — you know it well — one is competitive competition, and I give you a data: in 2021, more than seventy-three percent of the calls for city council aid were made through this way of competitive competition. And on the other hand, we have the non-competitive competition, which is a mechanism that also has the law and which is not much less a regime of inequality or subjectivity, but quite the opposite. Finally, we bet on collaboration with local authorities. And, of course, we're always talking to Fegamp, where all political groups are represented. But I'm going to focus especially on what you like, and I'm going to focus on the Hurbe. So I'm going to tell you that since 2010, through the Hurbe, the municipalities received a total of 63.3 million euros. Thanks to this effort made by the Galician Union of Cooperation and Coordination with the Town Councils, a total of 300 acts have been carried out until today; they are acts of humanization and within the Town Councils. This plan looks for that development of our rural villages and those spaces that we now do with a criterion, which is sustainability. We improve equipment, improve appropriations, and all cooperation agreements, because they are done — as I said earlier — either through competitive competition or through these agreements. Conventions that you know are regulated by a decree, a decree that dates back to 1992. Look at you when you're old! And I don't know what the problem is. But apart from all this, I'll tell you how the Hurbes are signed at the Environmental Council. We have to meet a number of requirements. Those requirements are that the lands where the work is to be carried out will be made available to the Council of Galicia. If you have any council that is awaiting a Hurbe and meets all the conditions, you have nothing but to say. On the other hand, it contains co-financing. Town Councils make an effort, and that effort is that they put 30% of their own budget. So the Galician Union puts 70% and the municipalities make an effort, it's 30%. They have to draft the project, and from there it's the Galician Board that makes the corresponding bid, and the rear has to take over the work, its exploitation, its maintenance and its conservation. So it's a fully transparent system, where we have to gather a number of conditions, and not all municipalities have the ability to meet those conditions for some reason or for some other reason. But, as I said, there are some publications that are made, where the transparency on the part of the Galician Union is fundamental. It's the Open Transparency and Government Portal and the Galician Meeting Convention Log. So, you might ask for information, you might say that it took us a month, but believe me that if you want to work, you can do it because you see it at the Transparency Portal, and you give it all the publicity you need to make everyone know what happens. So, Mr Bará, what we've been doing since the Environment Council is responding to requests that the municipalities move us, no less or less; and we do so through agreements, in which both parties make commitments. And you put it -- or you didn't mention it right here, but if you did in the text -- Ribeira and Marín, I mentioned it because we're doing audiences. But you deliberately have some absence from time to time. I say some absence because it forgets other audiences that have been held. And I used to say that we mobilized 63.3 million euros. And it's said that of these 63.3 million euros, 25 million went to an auditorium, it's the Lugo Auditorium. That I know, in Lugo it's not running the PP, it's ruling the PSOE and the BNG. But it happens that we signed that agreement, which was through a Hurbe plan, and it's been closed for years — you can say, closed years. And something you'll have to say about it, Mr Bará, because there rules the BNG. Just like we're talking about that auditorium, which we're also asked about associations that take care of, who's responsible for management, when it's going to open... it's the only and only county. [[Applause]] We could give you other data. Ferrol's auditorium was also through a Hurbe plan. And you know how much? Seventeen million euros. And, as I know, he's not running the PP either. But I can put other cases to him: the boat of Valdeorras — not to mention 25 million anymore, 17 million... — well, it's another agreement, for 280,000 euros; by naming another ideology, which I think in this case I remember is the PSOE. So, deliberately, you once again start to rock, you want to turn around saying, you've done what a lot of agreements! Well, look, they weren't agreeing with PP councils that 25 million euros that we now realize they're being useless because when you want to open Lugo's auditorium it turns out that half of the things are not going to work anymore, and on top they're going to say it's the blame because it's on Galicia's board. But not only do we make agreements through the Hurbe plan, but we help regulate situations. The general plans for municipal management — which they seem to dislike you so much — and that's why this year we're going to spend 3.2 million euros. Today we have 300 municipalities in Galicia that have that general plan. But I could give you data: Vigo Town Hall, the PSOE, we signed agreement and EUR 1 million for that Municipal Management General Plan; Round it up, we just signed it, EUR 250,000; Black, EUR 125,000; Rábade, EUR 85,000. I don't know, nor does the People's Party rule. So these are cases like others for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, for example, that I am not able to move forward with a general municipal management plan. So here's the municipal basic plans, 1.2 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u191	Work is of the PSOE; Ribeira de Piquin is of the PSOE; San Juan de Río is independent; Alfoz is of the PSOE; Samos is of the PSOE; The Paramo, who was the first and who knows I neither is of the PP. I can still give you examples. By the way, as you rule with the PSOE in Madrid, or at least vote together, because yesterday I was able to check in front of the voters who vote together, but also in the various deputies, I would invite you, Mr Bará, to sit with the President of the Mino-Sil Confederation, and so we could bring forward some municipal basic plan. They're all waiting for those favorable reports that haven't just arrived.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u192	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u193	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u194	You see the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u195	For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u196	Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u197	Mrs. Vázquez, you tell me about the wolf, and the wolf is an example of a book just of the partisan use of sectarianism of the People's Party's Party's politics, which is worth everything, it's worth everything! You're boycotting and delaying the wolf inventory, which should have been published by now, it's been hired last year, and they haven't made it public yet, why? [[Murmurs.]] Because they want to boycott the wolf's strategy, because they want to boycott the aid to the livestock sector that is planned in the wolf's strategy for party interest. [[Applause]] But you know what the sector says? The gander sector sees it viable to live with the wolf with the new strategy of the wolf. And you're boycotting, you're late because you want to create discomfort, confusion, strife, mess, because you're interested in partyism. Because the situation that is now living in Galicia is not a consequence of the wolf hunt ban, it is a consequence of the whole above, it is the situation of the previous model that we are now living in, these wolf attacks. [[Applause]] They didn't happen now because of the magic art most of the wolf's attacks. But speaking of the wolf, his real wolf, which really makes you nervous and nervous, do you know who his wolf is? BNG. It's because they know we're there and we're going for everything, and we're going for the government of the Union. [[Murmurs.]] That's what makes them nervous. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, with lamb's skin or without lamb's skin. [[Murmurs.]] It's his obsession. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This isn't love, it's obsession. Yours is obsession. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u198	Quiet. Look how the thing drifted, Mr. Bará. Let's go to the conventions and look where we're talking about the fox and the wolf. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u199	No, the wolf spoke to the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u200	No, but it all comes as a consequence of this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u201	Of course, you talk to us here about subsidies, but I didn't ask you about subsidies. What it calls for is that grants that are incorporated as far as possible, and many can be incorporated, so that municipalities have an income forecast, into the Local Cooperation Fund. Between grants and agreements we told you that the Local Cooperation Fund could be doubled. There are some subsidies that are not, but many others can be incorporated. But I'm talking to you about the agreements, and you say, we're being asked by the municipalities. But how do you want to take our hair this sloppy way? If you give them your finger. I'm telling you about Lugo now. Because you about Lugo — I must say so — lied. Because after a year and a half I managed to get the list of Hurbe's conventions, and here are not those conventions that you talked about Lugo and Ferrol to build the auditoriums, because they go on the other side. [[Mr. Bará Torres lifts a few sheets.]] Because just as Pontevedra's audience did to Galician Union, Lugo's, also ruling who ruled. The city auditoriums, by historical tradition, made them the board of Galicia. You put here at Hurbe 3.5 million for Lugo's equipment, but not for construction. And for Ferrol, he's not in the Hurbe, because I've got him here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I got him here. [[Mr. Bará Torres lifts a few sheets.]] Only for equipment, not for construction. But it's absolutely perverse that you say here that the conventions are regulated and published. Do you know why they're published? Because there's a decree of the year 2006 that compels them to be published; there's nothing else left. But you cannot consult because there is no joint website where you can consult, a history of all the agreements you have signed. They're published in the DOG four-monthly because it's mandatory, but there's no place -- he asked Fegamp -- where they can be consulted. So another duty for Mr. Calvo to pass on to his fellow governor: the publication of all agreements and agreements. And speaking of audiences, you spoke of Marín and Ribeira. We are delighted that audiences are being held in Marín and Ribeira. You had no problem signing an agreement with Marín; with Ribeira they signed three, his and two of Mr. Rodríguez's. Three to the auditorium; not one, three. But do you know what you did to Bueu, who also asked his mayor for an audience? Yes, he met with his secretary-general of Urbanism. And you know what he said? They were waiting, for partyism and sectarianism, because that's how you act, for them to wait. The Marin people have the right to have an audience and not those of Bueu. [[Applause]] That is the portrait of the sectarianism of the politics of the People's Party. And there's the data, just like the data on the deputies. It's just that it's absolutely scandalous. Guitiriz, who has less population than Allariz, receives 439,000 euros from the Single Plan of Deputy of Lugo, 439,000 Guitiriz! Does Allariz know how much he gets from the House of Ourense? Fifty and a thousand euros. That's also the portrait. Do you know which municipalities receive more from the Plan of Town Councils of the Pontevedra Parliament? Just because they're bigger, because they have more population, because they have more territory, because they'll have more aging. They are: in number one Lalín, 2.6 million euros; in second place, The Road, also 2.6 million euros; then they come Vilagaría, Sanxenxo — Sanxenxo’s Emirate—, Round it, Cangas, Ponteareas, such... but because there are 43 million euros that are shared with objective criteria, which is what we ask you to do also at Galician Union, concentrating all those funds on the Local Cooperation Fund. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Cities have a separate deal, as they've always ruled who ruled. But they have a per capita funding that is ten times lower than the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. That's what you're looking at.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u203	...ten times less funding for inhabitants of Pontevedra and Vigo with respect to smaller municipalities. That's the reality of the province of Pontevedra, which is an example in the equitable, fair, objective and non-partisan distribution of public funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u205	I'm done, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u207	...making clear and concrete proposals. The first is that they have to eradicate once and for all, because it is contrary to the most basic democratic principles, those client and party practices, and that meet the demands of the Fegamp, the development and compliance of the local Covenant. The second is the law for the participation of the Greek municipalities in the incomes of the Autonomous Community; a law to shield those incomes and that does not depend on those client practices. And thirdly, progressive integration into the Local Aid Cooperation Fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u208	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u209	...conventions and annual grants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u210	Thank you, Mr Bará. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u211	...that the Autonomous Community is intended for local authorities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u212	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u213	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u214	Thank you. Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u215	Thank you, President. Mr. Bará, I'm trembling now. Don't you see the distress he's giving me. Angustia has it because, in fact, you're the only one who's been cheating, and they've been cheating for years. In the end, the result is that the Greeks are smart and decide, and so far they have decided what they decided. And -- believe me -- they're still going that way that's going a lot better for us. [[Applause]] I see you don't know anything or you don't want to know. Look: the wolf's census didn't hire the central government, the wolf's census hired him to Galician Union. But, of course, they have to be waiting because there's a specialist, a gentleman who knows best, who's called Luis Llaneza, who's doing it. And you'll understand that making a census of the wolf is not three months, it's at least thirteen months, Mr Bará. Do you want to do it, too? But that census that had to be done was the central government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And before he put the wolf in the Lespre list, Mr. Bará, he had to do the strategy, and he didn't. All of a sudden, it takes 20 million euros out of the sleeve, which didn't reach the autonomous communities. Galicia did put for the gain of 3.2 million euros for protection, but also to help them with all the problems that they have for multiple deaths, as no kind of management can be done. That's the difference between a central government supported by you and the difference between the Government of Galicia. And look, the environment is everything, biodiversity is everything, but if someone has to protect, it's the sheep and the sheep. And I see you have no interest at all. That's hardly the way they can win. Having said this, we're going to what he took us today, and tell them they don't have any memory either. And I went to 2008, just to see what happened to the Bipartite, because I remembered that at that time I and others who ruled the People's Party didn't have a single agreement. [[Murmurs.]] And they did! Then you processed agreements worth 1.95 million euros. Of this total, 87.4% went to the municipalities in which PSOE and BNG ruled. That's what BNG did when he ruled in 2008. But we could go to the Lugo Parliament, which, as I know, also governs you in the Lugo Parliament. And we could go to 2020, which we have there, and in the Lugo Parliament 72%, 2.8 million euros, were agreed to PSOE municipalities; 20% of the BNG municipalities, 789.000 euros, and only 4% went to PP municipalities, 150,000 euros. That means that out of every ten agreements signed by the Lugo Deputy, nine fall to those who fall. And the question I ask you, Mr. Bará: is there anything dark behind this? is it partisan? is it arbitrary? is it discriminatory? You can tell me, because I should know. I'm talking to him about agreements, I'm telling him so many percent and where they're going to stop. Just like I told you that 73% of Galician board budget goes through competitive competition bases. And you turn out you can't give me that data in this deputation. But I could also tell you about Pontevedra's Deputy, because you're always with one, worth the rest. It's worth four, and I'm sure there's some other surprise. Of course, you can't afford to be here again and again to say that we discriminate against people. No, no one here discriminates because he's ruling from a color or another color. Sometimes it's true that we find ourselves that investments are not greater because of the ineffectiveness of these municipalities, other times because they don't ask for it. That's right, Mr. Bará. Tell me where the requests are. And sometimes they don't ask for it because they have to contribute 30%, and they don't have it for whatever reason. So what I can assure you is that since the first meeting in Galicia there is equal treatment for the municipalities, which comply with the current regulations — if you don't like it, I'm sorry — and that we try to provide the best services to all the Greeks stay where they live. And sometimes, as I told you earlier, we can't run that budget. And we're not who and therefore we can provide less services. And I insist: I'm still waiting for public housing in San Paio de Navia, I'm still waiting for it today, Vigo Town Hall. But I'm waiting for us to acquire 19 houses in Ferrol and we still don't have the license. But I could tell you from there, but I can also tell you about Lugo. Then it would be good, and it's something I ask for for all the present, that we put the batteries to give services to these citizens are where they are and, therefore, they can execute all the budgets of which the Council of Galicia has at its disposal. Mr. Bará, we've been working closely with the municipalities for 13 years, we've been talking to the municipalities, reaching agreements with the Fegamp, and that's what we're going to do. By listening to the requests of all mayors, by cooperating in everything that implies an advance and an improvement to the municipalities and all the municipalities, for to govern those who have the doors open from the Unity of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u216	Thank you, Counselor. Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists on the Government of Greece's employment policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u217	Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u218	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. Counselor, I can't start this interrogation without making you a reproach. It seems little exemplizing that you, head of the Council of Employment and Equality of the Council of Galicia, in front of the events in Ourense, by the hand of your mayor Gonzalo Pérez Jácome, had kept in a certain horrendous silence. [[Applause]] We found no reproach or condemnation of the aggression, first, physical and then verbal, that a union representative had to suffer from the Orensan regent. In the face of a situation that is so unusual as to be serious, in the face of a key right in democratic societies, such as union freedom, we don't think much to ask the head of the German Government with competences in the sector to have a clear attitude of rejection, no longer to aspire to the fact that his department has brought the knowledge of the facts to the prosecutor's office. I'm sure you recognize the essential role of trade unions in defending the general interests of workers, as well as their vertebrate role in the articulation of the socio-working relationships of modern states. We can only conclude that he had to keep up behind that escape strategy that his party has been spreading for three years all over Jacome, which extends and intensifies his mouth over the city of Ourense. He diagnosed President Feijóo's misfortunes that the lodger would have for the citizens of Ourense, to, after all, contribute outrageously to keeping him. [[Applause]] It didn't take forty-eight hours for President Rueda — and you and him — to show the continuity of this shameful alliance. Having said this and entering into this matter, both the most representative trade unions and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have been affirming since the beginning of the legislation that Galicia has a labour market characterized by a scarce dynamism and an unbearable index of timeliness and involuntary partiality derived from the ineffective policies of employment and training, both for unemployed and for busy, that since it took possession of Feijóo in 2009, are being carried out in our autonomous community. In the election campaign in which Feijóo first went to the presidency of the Union, he reiterated over and over again that he would solve the problem of unemployment in forty-five days. Twelve years later there are about 30,000 unemployed more than in the year 2008 — the last year of the Bipartite — with the last year, 2021, of the Government of Feijóo. This data is always in EPA data, because registered unemployment has been the subject of manipulation by the Government of Feijóo on several occasions, as we denounce the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It is important to point out, Counsellor, that membership of social security in the state as a whole has increased by 1.2%, there are 227,034 more affiliated persons; on the other hand, Galicia has decreased by 5.4%, with 58,461 fewer affiliates. So we have fewer jobs than then, and the drop in the number of unemployed than you assume cannot be explained by the creation of new jobs. And we continued to analyze the data from 2008 — the last year of the Bipartite — regarding the last year of Feijóo, 2021. The evolution of the work volume was as follows: with Feijóo, Galicia lost 9.9 of its work volume; in the state as a whole, the loss was 3.8 points less. If Feijóo's policy had similar results to that of the State average, Galicia would have the equivalent of 45,469 jobs more. Also with Feijóo, Galicia destroyed one out of every four hours of work in the primary sector; in the state there is almost the same volume of work. If Feijóo's policies gave a similar result to those of the state media, there would be, in our community today, 24,612 more jobs. If we talk about manufacturing industries, in the food industry there is 12.8 in Galicia compared to 3.9 state; in textiles and clothing we lose 65.9 % compared to 41.1 of the loss in the state. With similar behavior, there would be 5,612 employees more. And if we talk about chemical industry, we lose one 17.3 of our hours in Galicia, against the loss of 2.4 of the average in the state. In the services of the non-market: public administration, education and health, Galicia has a certain increase of 10.1 points, but is less than the state average, because it grows in 16.4 versus 26.5 in the state. To maintain the same increase, speaking in health care, education and public administration, we would have 21,753 more jobs. In this evolution maintained by the volume of work with Feijóo, we talk about usual hours, because in jobs we have to take into account the schedules for the increase in bias in Galicia. For all these reasons, this group insisted on several initiatives in the need to implement an integral reform of active employment policies in order for Galicia to leave the last job creation posts in relation to the rest of the state, and with the objective of reducing long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, and also to reduce the high rate of involuntary bias and the wage gap suffered by women, presenting positive alternatives, that again and again, advisor, are discarded by the group that supports the Government. And we also ask you again, Counsellor, to reactivate the social dialogue tables, in order to analyze the eves of our labour market and to adopt measures consistent with the social agents, but not so far, and save for the negotiation of rescue plans, were called. Galicia urgently needs a shock plan for the young and young and long-term unemployed, and also the necessary and urgent strengthening of Galicia's SEPE to become — and we say again — a true intermediary and at the point of support of companies to request employees fit for recruitment needs. Because Galicia suffers, as a advisor, as a shortage of labour, which is partly attributable, of course, to the inadequate policy of vocational training in the Greek education system, which is not of its competence, but also due to shortcomings in employment policies, such as the lack of a diagnosis of the labour market. They do not count — and I have already said it in other interventions — with a market study tool that supports training to these needs. You don't form the unemployed and the Greek stops to the content of needs or offers, you provide them according to the needs of the training centres or to fill in the tasks or budget of other councils such as rural councils. It is truly worrying, and the object of this interpellation, the occupied population of our community and the active population. The occupied population came down in Galicia in nearly sixty-five thousand people and the active population fell into more than 90 thousand, marking a trend in a shrinking labour market, in which the loss of inhabitants scares, as the community lost more than 100,000 inhabitants, one hundred and two thousand in data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. Since 2010 we have the second highest aging rate in the state after Asturias, and with twenty municipalities more than then below the thousand inhabitants. And this loss of population is used by the German Government as a factor that inflates the figures of the drop in unemployment used by you. The age range where this labour and demographic crisis, which marks the Feijóo era in the field of employment, is observed, is in youth; according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, it is in young people and girls between 16 and 29 years of age. Since mid-2009, nearly 13 years later, the unemployed young population has reduced by about forty-five but, in time, the new people working in Galicia have fallen over forty-six. It's twenty-seven thousand boys and girls who are unemployed less but almost 100,000 unemployed less, while the total in place of inactivity is around one hundred seventy-three thousand people. Galicia has lost nearly 17 thousand jobs in the industry, more than forty-three thousand in construction and more than twenty-one thousand in agriculture and fisheries, making a transvasion to the service sector. The rotation and temporality were increasing — and we have analyzed the figures often in propositions defended by what they are talking about — in the Feijo era around 90 percent of the contracts signed were temporary. It is true that now — as far as labour reform is concerned — the reform of which the People's Party voted against — the indefinite recruitment — with data from the last EPA in the first quarter of this year — reflects the continuing increase of people with indefinite contracts up to 22,800 more than the previous quarter, and in a year 38,900. So you already have the questions that we ask you: what valuation does the Greek Government make that the legacy of former president Alberto Núñez Feijóo, in terms of employment, is a fall of the active population in more than 90,000 people? Do you intend to take concrete action on this issue? And if this answer is positive, what measures will be implemented until December this year, what budget will be allocated to them by old tranches and productive sectors? Nothing else. I'll continue my second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. And now the task of the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u220	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Rodríguez. Let me, first of all, for the allotments made to the entire policy carried out in the work environment specifically by President Feijóo, show my deep appreciation for the policies and, in general, for the improvement of the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks that he has been carrying out over all these years and, especially — as far as I am concerned — in the field of work. [[Applause]] I can no longer disagree with the situation that you have just pointed out here, with the neglect that seems to have taken all these years with the Council of Galicia and the Government of Mr. Feijóo because of the labour situation and the economic situation of the community; that dramatic state that you mark from the German labour market, where in addition, in that abstraction you make of all those data, the only one responsible is the Government of Mr. Feijóo, and myself, of course, as part of it. And I can't, of course, share for two certaintys: The first is that I've been seeing this government working before being inside it, and right now, for many years, and I can assure you that every day they work to improve Galicia, and, of course, they work every day for the economy and the labour market of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And I can't share it either because the data supports our management. You say we have to copy the policies made by Spain or the policies made by the Central Government, some policies that have led Spain to be the country with the penultimate unemployment rate in Europe to be the last; we are already the country with the highest unemployment rate in all of Europe. I mean, we have to get to copy Spain, to go even worse. You alert the number of people affected by ERTE, but the reality is that in March in Galicia, 1,595 ERTE were registered, which affected a total of 5,369 workers. This means that we were the ones in Galicia who left the ERTE since the 96.75% of workers and workers started the pandemic, almost one hundred and sixty thousand workers and workers left the ERTE. They speak of a drop in the occupied population of sixty-five thousand in April and compare it with the month of April 2009 because that's what's good for them, because there's that figure coming out, but they don't say that it increases the number of busy people over the second year of reflecting the EPA and it increases by thirty-one thousand six hundred busy, which means, in addition, a rise, since the coward crisis began, of 108,600 people occupied in our community. As for memberships, they're no longer interested in comparing to the month of April, so they compare to the month of February, because the month of April wasn't supposed to work out the number. I think at least they should choose the same terms in comparisons, because they take the two months of April, it turns out that Galicia has reached 1,033,997 memberships, which is the highest number of memberships registered in April for 13 years; that is, since 2009 is the month of April with the highest number of memberships in the autonomous community. That's how Mr. Feijóo left the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Applause]] It's just that they're not just just going through the numbers, they're also going through the policies linked to these numbers. And it turns out that the indefinite recruitment goes up in Galicia — and throughout Spain, of course — after the job reform. You know what's going on? We're moving from temporary precariousness to indefinite precariousness. Do you know what is the rise of uncontinuous fixed contracts in Galicia comparing the month of April last year with this one? Over 200 percent. I mean, we're talking about workers serving the same number of days or months to the service year, and the rest of the time they're unemployed, but during the time they're unemployed they don't count as unemployed workers. That's how the socialist government and Mrs. Yolanda Díaz are getting unemployed in Madrid; thus making the figures this way. And this is the policy we have to copy! It's not to grow the economy, to increase the job, not; it's to make contracts, and contracts become temporary to be fixed discontinuous. That's right, it's not on the unemployment list anymore, and then we've already considered that there's an indefinite recruitment. However, in Galicia he went up to indefinite recruitment for time before the job reform, and he did so thanks to the active policies we have carried out all these years. It is important that between 2020 and 2021 — i.e. before that labour reform came into force, and in a year marked by the pandemic — we increased the indefinite recruitment in Galicia by 31,64%, 21,769 new contracts, which are really undefined, not discontinuous. You say what is the assessment I make of President Feijóo's legacy in employment. For I think the data speak for themselves, data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, and data from the Public Service of State Employment, not mine: Galicia has more affiliations and fewer people unemployed in annual and monthly evolution; the number of unemployed, 150,602, is the lowest in a month of April throughout the historical series since 1996, and the fall in annual evolution is also the largest since twenty-six years ago, since 1996. There is unemployment in the four provinces of Galicia, in the seven major cities, in all economic sectors; there are fewer unemployed people among the priority groups in the Galician Union: among women, under 30, long-term unemployed. Memberships, as I told them, grow by 3.19% over a year ago. And ask me what specific measures we will take immediately. I think the measures shouldn't explain them well in previous interventions, because even they say we're not adjusting training to the demand of the productive sectors, when you think you know that we have a capacity schedule in place. So, I don't understand very well what you're referring to, or if you don't understand what Galicia's capacity schedule is, because the tables were finished on May 13, all the productive sectors participated in nine tables, and of course the trade unions and entrepreneurs participated. It's a pity I've at least admitted that I've made social dialogue with rescue plans, because a few months ago I didn't even engage in social dialogue with rescue plans, now I'm doing it with rescue plans. Balance and measures we are taking. From December 2021 until last week we published in the Dog ninety-six aid orders and signed more than forty collaborative agreements for all those active policies that we do not seem to do: training, employment, employment, self-employment, social economy, equality and fighting against gender violence. We have put in place, by collectives: for the Women's Employment Plan 50% of the EUR 35.8 million that are destined for this plan; from the Youth Employment Plan, EUR 51.8 million, it is 100 percent running; and for disability and social exclusion, 70% is already active of the EUR 40 million intended for it. In addition, EUR 26 million is already active in this first quarter of the year in support of self-government and small businesses. What's left to get out, to publish, to end up here at the end of the year? So some of the help related to the Women's Work Plan, which I'm telling you is 50% on the move; basically, the new Woman 22 program and the generational and female employment program, the Emega program, and now we're going to start getting the results of the most important projects that the Council has and I think you know. You are about to examine the new Galician Employment Service computer and technology tool. This tool will therefore begin in the second half working with the new staff announced by President Rueda, those 136 work guides who will work in the employment offices and, of course, have a fundamental task in implementing this tool. As I told you earlier, on May 12, we finished the tables of the Galley Agenda of abilities, with which we will immediately be ready to give the first results and begin to adapt the training to the results of this table. However, I do not think that training is being given or given in accordance with what the training centres say; training is being provided in accordance with data from the Galician Employment Observatory, which I also do not understand very well because it points out this. And, as I'm telling you, I think of the projects that we said we were going to put in place, the entrepreneurship poles, it's about to start up the poison pole, which was another of the projects that we announced at the audience that I had at the end of last year, with which I think the projects know them. I can't disagree anymore with the data and the panorama you just marked here. Of course, it seems frankly unfair to me that the work of so many years and so many active policies is being valued, if they've been done, surely with disappointment, but with a lot of success. And in no case will we allow this government to compare the labour policy that is being done in the state and the economic policy that has been done for so many years in the Galician Union, with active policies and employment that are being carried out continuously, constantly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u221	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u222	...and I also believe that in a coherent way and in contact with the sectors and the productive sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u223	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor for the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u224	Thank you, President. From Jacome, nothing, right? Good. On the evaluation of employment in Galicia, which seems to be not going well but is doing very well, we are not only the Socialist Parliamentary Group that is concerned, but that different media reflect headlines like: "Galicia sums up only 17 new workers per 100 close to retirement age", "The 25-year-olds don't even reach 4% of all members of social security in the community," "Many interior councils are without generational relevance," "Immigration saves employment in Galicia", "The labor market that leaves Feijóo: many fewer people working". Your Honor, the case is that we're already used to using these interpellations to make ads. It must be remembered, for example, that the last time was in December when our parliamentary group urged her — my companion Noelia Otero — to take action and to pronounce herself around the worrying situation of discrimination suffered by LGTBI people at work in our community. He announced studies, meeting in the first quarter of the year of the Observatory against Discrimination, and concrete actions, which they failed to carry out. There is a lack of truth in this Parliament, and taking advantage of your competences in this matter and that last May 17 was the Day against LGTBI-phobia — we continue to have hatred at work, and you know it — in the streets we ask you to take your responsibilities seriously; at least, they comply with Law 2/2014 of 14 April, for the equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. [[Applause]] Announcements like those that have just repeated for a youth, advisor, asphyxiated, who suffers from one of the lowest purchasing capabilities at the state level. Lack of opportunities, precariousness and instability are real waste to develop a vital, independent and dignified project in our community. The lack of active employment policies for youth and the lack of housing policies for young people and girls leaves us the worst emancipation figures in the community since there are records. This situation, which they have neglected, not only reverts to the personal autonomy of young people and girls, but also changes the generational remittance and can break the sustainability of our welfare state in the future. Youth not only represents less and less weight in the composition of the population of Greece — as I said in this article — but at this step it is directly proportional to what the Government of Greece gives in budgets, in public policies and in participation in these; the same zero weight you gave in this case in your speech to young people, young people and girls. And I can't stop talking about what he said about state policies, which he didn't want to copy state policies. For, well, Rueda seemed quite the opposite; in his speech he said: "Today we are at the highest figure of indefinite recruitment," and for him that was an achievement. Well, I was making some successes that occur without any doubt, Your Honor, by the application of the Labour Reform of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Yes, reform that the PP voted against in Congress. [[Murmurs.]] And you were talking about becoming a lot of unemployed workers and not counting on unemployment. Well it's not true; the unemployed are in a legal state of unemployment when they don't work. And he said we are today — that was what Rueda said, eh! Wheel said, "the highest figure of indefinite recruitment," as a achievement -- the community where wages grow the most, 32 percent. I don't know if the data is accurate because it didn't indicate the official source, what I do know is why wages went up in Galicia more than the rest of the state with the job reform. You know why? Because the autonomous community of Galicia is the one that had the lowest wages, and then to reach a thousand euros after, it goes up a lot to half the wages in Galicia. And that was thanks to the measures that Pedro Sánchez took with a rise to a thousand euros, 36%; but, of course, you don't want to copy these measures of support to the people who least won in this autonomous community. [[Applause]] This is to make economic policies for the benefit of all. This is continuing to move forward in accordance with the recommendations of the European Social Charter. This is to work for people, particularly for women and Thursdays, which is the segment of the population that has been most benefited by these two measures. On the contrary, what are you doing? Rueda didn't use any job achievement from the Feijóo Government, none. The only measure he announced in relation to employment was to increase 80% in training; it seems to us appropriate if they first implement the budget specifically devoted to training. For example, of the funds allocated to training for employment, i.e. EUR 1,370 million for the training of unemployed persons and EUR 358 million for those who have been employed since 2009 to date, 573 million for unemployed persons and EUR 196 million for unemployed persons, 41.8 % and 54.8 % respectively. These are data that makes it easier for the Government of Galicia to make it easier for this parliamentary group, for Parliament in general. So if we increased by 80% but they weren't able to spend the funds allocated to training, because little announced Feijóo in his speech. The president has also drawn his breast from the employment data, as you do now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u226	...—end, president—but the data from the last EPA say two things, advisor: 50,700 homes where all their assets are unemployed, and also 27,300 homes that do not receive income. Is that the labour market of what you crave in this intervention? Mine, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Close this interpellation, Employment Promotion and Equality Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u228	Thank you, President. Regarding the execution of funds, I am not going to put myself here to discuss this data of billions of euros that since 2009... year 2021, the Employment Council had an initial budget of 400.8 million euros, and these were added 375 million; the consolidated budget was 775 million euros — none of it will be with me and I can check it out. These 612 million euros have been committed, i.e. we run on the initial budget by 153%, and on the target by 79%. We increased the execution, with the same staff in respect of the previous exercise, 224 million euros. We grant aid to 118,554 beneficiaries. We have carried out 1,423 training actions in which 20,000 people participated. And we activate the two rescue plans you already know. But this doesn't seem to be running. I believe that if we had been returning funds to the ministry since 2009, because you know that the funds come from the ministry, we would be in all the newspapers; Galicia, they would never stop talking about us. But, well, we must be doing it very discreetly because nobody demands us. Work reform. President Rueda spoke indeed of Galicia's good data on the indefinition of contracts exactly the same way I have just spoken. It's just that Galicia went up... yes, please read it — and I really ask for it — because she explained it to him very well. And it gave him this data exactly: that we went up to more than thirty percent, from 2020 to 2021, before labour reform and in full pandemic, derived from the active policies of the Galician Union, not from labour reform. You know, because you just said something that's not accurate. The workers dissociated us, when they're not providing services, that is, when they have their contract suspended, they actually charge unemployment. But one thing is to charge for unemployment and the other is they go out as unemployed; that is, in the unemployment figures -- and please report -- they don't appear. With which, we're talking about that all this number of contracts or people hired under the form of discontinuous fixeds do not appear on the unemployment list. In Galicia, one in four contracts in the last month is this modality, i.e. 25%. We have a rise from April to April — I do compare a month to the same month of the following year — of more than one thousand two hundred percent, about 1,250 percent, of uncontinuous fixed contracts. With which we — again to say — move from temporary precariousness to undefined precariousness. These are not undefined contracts on a full-time basis where workers continue to work the same number of months, and above all they are not included in the unemployment lists. With regard to the plans, they say that -- I didn't explain it and I'm going to explain it now -- each of the most affected collectives mentioned women and Thursdays, and the actions I didn't take time for. I think I've explained these plans and they're known, but the Women's Employment Plan is €35.8 million; we've even now opened up until October 14th the call for the Digital Capacity Improvement Program for women living in rural areas, which will benefit 1,000 women from it; it's open until June 20th the call for training actions with commitment of recruitment, training units in companies where women are underrepresented, of which 2,667 women will benefit; and the Galicia programme is already approved employs, where 500 women specifically benefit. In the coming months, integrated employment programmes will be approved exclusively for women, which will benefit 800 women, the Women's 22 programme, which I told you earlier, which will benefit 1,000 women and the generational women's, 130 women. The youth employment program, which has assets — as I told you — already 100 percent of the aid orders, and is over 50 million, 51.8 million euros for Thursday, and it counts on the Investigation program, here are 420 young people and young women, who will be hired as researchers; the First Professional Experience Program in public administrations, 367 people; and the Talent 30 program, which will benefit 700 young people and where we invest more than twelve million euros. Besides, we also have the specific line, as you know, in Galicia uses to benefit Thursday, specifically 350 boys and girls in this exercise. And there is also another particularly vulnerable collective, which you think you have not mentioned, but which is part of these three employment plans of the Autonomous Community, which are the Employment and Social Exclusion Plan, is 40 million euros activated; the advanced brokerage service for people with disabilities will benefit 1,310 people; at the point-to-point for employment, 384 people who are risk preceptors; and also the Galicia programme employs disability and social exclusion, of which 496 people belonging to this collective will benefit here. So I sincerely believe that what I'm telling you is whether active policies are executed, whether funds are being put into motion, whether they're really coming to people and businesses. The evidence is, as I'm telling you, that most of the calls for aid that had to be launched with the budget of this council are now under way, with which I am greatly called attention that continues to insist on the lack of execution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u230	...not mine, but all my previous companions, because this is not the case. I think President Rueda said this clearly in his speech, which said, "We want a Galicia that creates more and more jobs and a better quality." And he said we bet on it "with economic growth always focused on people." This is proof of these plans for these specific vulnerable groups that we have this year, and I think they are also those projects that I spoke to you about in my previous intervention. I would simply ask them that, sometimes, instead of criticizing each and every one of the active employment policies, which are also constructive and also bring proposals to make in Galicia, not comparing those of the central state. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the fight against endometriosis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u232	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u233	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we call it into a context where the pain of the rule, the menstrual health, is at present, of which the BNG has blessed us very much, because we are not talking about a minor or residual matter, and because it is very important not to deny the problem, to hide it, to minimize it, and to act. And the first step to act and solve a problem is to talk about it and know it exists. This news is a fruit of the work of thousands of women, who have been joining their hands and voices for years to denounce what happens to them, so that they can be heard, so that it ends with the silence and concealment of everything that affects women's health, life and lives in general. And within these voices are those of women of love, women with endometriosis in Galicia, who is today a representation accompanying us in the guest gallery, to whom I especially want to greet. And I want to greet them and I want to congratulate them and thank them for that enormous work they've been doing for years of visibility, of awareness, of reporting, of claiming attention to women with endometriosis; also for accompanying and listening to many women with problems when they have nowhere to go. Endometriosis -- I'm not going to talk today about what it's often about endometriosis, because we've been talking here in this Parliament, but just a brushed one -- is a chronic disease characterized by the growth of the endometrium out of its usual location, the uterus, but that often is located in the pelvian peritoneum, in the ovaries, in the intestine, in the bladder, in the stomach, in the lung, in the limb, in the sciatic nerve, in the potted, with which anyone can imagine a housing in some of these parts, as it can be the potted or the sciatic, of which pain we may be talking about. It is a disease that studies — not the Greeks, because we don't have them — say it can affect between 10% and 20% of women. So we have to give back the fact that about 60,000 Galicians, more than anything else, can be affected by this disease; women of fertile age, nine thousand of whom are in serious stages. So, at first, we're not talking about a minor issue; it's now, of course, even for women who want to either for thousands of other women or for BNG it's a novelty. We've been bringing this Parliament up for years. It was by the hand precisely that BNG brought in 2015 an initiative to this Parliament by putting it here as a parliamentary seat, making the problem visible. An initiative adopted unanimously calling for action from the Union. BNG brought it back in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, 2019 and in 2021, where an initiative was adopted again, adding to issues already approved in 2015. Why do we keep bringing him all those years? Because the agreements that have been taken in this Parliament have not been implemented. We must regret that, despite these agreements and the time spent — we have to talk about seven years since that first agreement — the steps taken by the Union are more than warm. They are more than warm in spite of this very high level of prevalence and although there are thousands of women who suffer from pain, disability, infertility, incomprehension, isolation... we could continue to put on qualifications. In 2015, a six-point initiative was approved, where it was requested: to disseminate the guide—What did the Counsellor do?, put it on the consulting website, not even updated, just hung in 2015 and not even updated—; a early detection plan—we don't know if you did anything at all—the creation of multidisciplinary teams, a six-month period to create a work team—we know it didn't come up with—; a six-month period to also make drifts where units were, were in Galicia or outside Galicia—we know it's not being done—; promoting knowledge of disease and women, especially in 25-year-olds. That we know, the only work of visibility, of information, -- I insist -- of accompaniment and other that is being done is what you are doing, basically, wanting it, and some other association but basically wanting it. On the part of the council absolutely nothing, throwing them behind the backs of the women themselves who are punished for doing that job. And they're at the limit, they're multi-folded because they're going through all of Galicia, the institutes and so on, but it's not their job, Counselor, it's not their function. It's the function of your advisor to do that work, both to give knowledge and to train professionals and society as well. Because we're talking about a health problem that has labour and social consequences for the enormous ignorance of disease. And we also demanded, and it was approved on that initiative, that the health research institutes in Galicia be transmitted to the health research institutes in Galicia the need to encourage research on endometriosis. Of course seven years later, neither they nor BNG are we aware that no research is being done at all in this field. The People's Party voted in favour of this initiative, then voted against it; well, it has already gone through various stages. Last year he voted in favour of another initiative where we add to these issues the question of staff training; the subject of differentiated care in fertility — because many women when diagnosed are already late and they no longer arrive in time to be mothers, then, a differentiated path is needed so that they can get to time—the theme of whether primary and hospital care is activated to meet their needs, especially after the pandemic, which is not happening; or the subject of demanding the Spanish Government that treatments for endometriosis are included among those funded by Social Security, because there are no specific treatments, but part of the treatments that are administered to them — which have little to do with their illness — are funded, but many others — the last generation — are not, and we can speak of 20 euros or 50 euros a month for many women, in the best case. Just like we could talk about physiotherapy and the number of issues that aren't included. So, Counsellor, these are the initiatives: six points in 2015, seven points in the year 2021. And you see in red where I put "no"? Not effective, not effective or moderately effective. This is to redeem any government. First, why? Because it means contempt for this Parliament, Counsellor. He despises the unanimous agreements of this Parliament. He despises the House, where we are representing the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And we bring here the problems of thousands of Galicians who suffer from a disease, in many disabling cases, who condition their daily lives, who lose quality of life, and we could follow. And as a government, the luxury, first of all, of not being proactive, of not taking the initiative, and then of not giving effect to what is agreed on again and again in this Parliament. Of course, we don't think it's a receipt. So, this balance, counselor, what I have to say to you is that it shows that the Union and the People's Party are not taking seriously the problem of thousands of Galicians who suffer from endometriosis, are not taking it seriously and are not giving importance to the dimension that has the problem, it is not allocating resources, it is not targeting the necessary attention, it is not giving answers to women. And, of course, he's got a lot of room for improvement, because he's practically done nothing, and there's a lot of demands on the table. And we are very concerned, Mr Comesaña, that at this point we have to ask ourselves how it might not be investigated, that there is no investigation into something that affects more than 50 percent of the population — women are more than 50 percent of the population — that there is no investigation into menstruation, endometriosis. How is that possible? We're wondering how it's possible that if you keep telling women that the pain of rule is normal, that girls keep coming in through consultations, and they keep telling them that this has happened all their lives. How is it possible that it will continue to take eight and ten years to reach a diagnosis? How is it possible that a consultation — recognized by doctors — is very recurrent in primary care, is there hardly any leads to hospital stay, specialists, that there is hardly any diagnostic evidence? How is it possible at this point? With trained professionals, knowing what to look for, where to search and with the relevant evidence to look for it, the baldness of these women, of thousands of women, wouldn't be such. And that's your responsibility to put it into practice. It seems to us to be embarrassing not to be done. And we have to ask ourselves how it is possible that in the 21st century, in the year 2022, the plans to study faculties are virtually not addressed. And we'd like to know if you're worried and busy about this issue — because we've already reported it here many times — to push it to be an element of study that's also preferred in medicine faculties. And we have to ask ourselves how it's possible for many women to lose their jobs for the pain of rule and endometriosis. Because many women lose their jobs. It's taking an initiative to have a right to go down -- it seems to us very well -- but that can't hide that the problem isn't taking a bass, because first, many women won't take them because behind those repeated casualties will be fired; and besides, it can't hide the need to do all the above: to investigate, form and act so as not to have the problem. The answer to this question, Mr. Comesaña, is quite obvious: the invisibility that has endometriosis is the invisibility that has almost all the diseases that have affected women for years, centuries or almost millenniums; consider that women's problems can be left behind and that the object of study and priority must be the body of man. Centuries of gender inequality in research, in training, in clinical practice, results in this situation in the middle of the 21st century. So, Counsellor, today we bring here this initiative, again from the hand of wanting, which wants to know how it is possible that seven years later it has practically not been advanced, that it wants you to answer your questions why seven years later it has not been advanced, and one year after the enlargement of the agreements — last week it was approved in Commission 5th meeting the 2015 agreement —...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u235	...how is it possible, what have you done, what will you do to solve the problem of women with endometriosis and put measures on the table? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u237	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado. Members of whom you wish to be present here. We are again today talking about endometriosis, after numerous speeches and debates in this House, because of this custom, Mrs Prado, which you have to value little -- I will not mean ignoring, but at least not valuing little -- like the expression you have used here -- any progress or staffing that takes place, in this case by the Health Council. I'm going to start taking a look at the issues that are under way, and that respond to those two agreements that you refer to, and on which, obviously, the Galician Union has been working for a long time. If we talk about the 2015 agreement — which was reiterated last week as a result of the debate on a non-law proposal in Commission 5a — the first point was the dissemination of the Care Guide to women with endometriosis from the Ministry of Health. This guide is actually published on the Sergas website — the website that I think is a reference website for the health professionals of Sergas and for the population, and I don't think you should be sorry for a document hanging on it; it's hung there — as well as a more recent document on the model of care. The guide is assumed by the Council as its own, especially with regard to the strategy of the disease approach. In addition, a specific paragraph has been created on the Sergas website in order to make it easier to access all endometriosis information. For the dissemination among professionals and to broaden their knowledge of disease, I have already reported in this Parliament on other occasions of training planning on disease, which is carried out periodically and which has an important competition by health professionals. On the creation of a multidisciplinary working group with the aim of implementing the early detection plan, the best early detection passes through the identification of symptoms, which in this case are overlapped — as you well said — with other processes and are very varied, and that their knowledge — by primary care professionals above all — allows their derivation to specific consultations. In this case, early detection can be exchanged by the training plan of Sergas professionals, which includes courses whose only theme is endometriosis. The aim of this training is to raise awareness about this problem of women's health, and also to increase knowledge about risk factors, as well as the most frequent symptoms that allow for this early detection. In recent years he has participated in a very broad way — and in the last edition, which ended a few days ago, the hundreds of places planned for training have been exhausted — mainly nursing staff, midwives, gynecology specialists and primary care doctors. The second edition of the same year 2022 is scheduled for the next month of October. With regard to the agreement that included the creation of another working group to evaluate the creation of multidisciplinary units, an initial meeting was held with the heads of the gynecology service and with professionals from the General Directorate of Health Care to assess the attention of women with endometriosis, and at that time the decision was to attend to women in specific consultations. In these years it has been progressing in the creation and implementation of these specific consultations in all health areas, already included that of Pontevedra — the last time I had to talk about this subject, Pontevedra was not created. In Pontevedra is already created that unit, with which, this was the only area that remained pending, and even now in the seven health areas there is this specific consultation — which is, of course, in charge of a group of gynecologists — so that all the consultations needed in this area, in all the health areas, are derived from these seven consultations. This was a goal we had set and it is a goal we have to say that it is met — I insist — in the seven health areas. In addition, there is also provision in this agreement for the creation of a third working group to evaluate the derivations of patients with grade four endometriosis to specialized units. You know that the Safeguards Act allows the choice of optional, and that, if it is necessary to conduct intra-hospital drifts, in the current health framework we increasingly understand health care as a unique system, a single hospital, both for the use of resources and also for the improvement of care. At the moment it was not necessary to derive any case outside our community in this case, no patient had to be sent out, all of them were approached in the Galician Health Service. Derivatives are, in fact, dependent on a medical criterion and this is regulated. It has to be an optional that makes that assessment proposal, which validates that need; and of course, if an optional of the Galician Health Service requests a patient to be led to a reference unit in the rest of the state, such as in other pathologies, it is satisfied without any kind of problem. There is no doubt that, if necessary, and it was appreciated by the doctor for this need for derivation, it would be carried out just as it happens with attention to other pathologies. In addition, in that 2015 Parliament was asked to promote awareness of the disease by women of childbearing potential, in a unique way among women under the age of 25. Within the programming of the profiles of social networks that develop from the Health Council, outreach campaigns related to this disease are periodically carried out, and we are, of course, prepared to carry out how many new actions in that sense are appropriate. Regarding the promotion of endometriosis research, one of the main difficulties for endometriosis research is how to study a disease that presents itself in many different ways. Some women have a more severe endometriosis as to endometrial tissue that grows out of endometrial but instead have little pain; others, on the other hand, have less tissue but feel a lot of pain and are not fertile. That's why there are few clinical trials with drugs in Spain. There are fewer than ten active clinical trials right now. And right now there's no clinical trial that's studying these kinds of treatments in Galicia. However, given the difficulties mentioned above, in this case, the type of studies to be adopted is usually multicenter; i.e., although the study is not handled as a researcher, it actually participates in some project. In this sense, he participated from the CHUAC — the University Hospital Complex of Coruña — in a multicenter observational study to assess the long-term safety of a drug called Esmya — especially in this case in endometrial safety. This study is already completed. Tell us, in addition, the work of several professionals in theses about this pathology. Even so, in the Inibic — the Coruña Research Institute — there is an ongoing project called Mother's Cell Paper and its extracellular vesicles in endometriosis, which has the ECim's favorable report, in which the lead researcher belongs to the group of Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine and in which they collaborate members of the CHUAC Xynecology service of the Coruña. In addition, we believe that the launching of specific consultations in all the health areas — which I was commenting on earlier — will also enable studies to be carried out and will encourage research in Galicia by professionals. As you can see, all the points included in that agreement have been met, and in addition, essentially, in relation to the best health care, with the greatest specialization of these consultations, with the creation of these specific joints, and also, in the work on early detection, with the training programming directed at Sergas professionals. [[Applause]] With regard to the most recent agreement — 2021 — it was in some respects reiterated what had already been agreed on in 2015. His first point was precisely about the creation of these specific consultations in all areas, which, as he already made progress on them, is already a reality. I would like to make it clear that, although these consultations are not multidisciplinary units in the structure, they are multidisciplinary in function; thus, in all health areas all cases of patients with greater complexity or more severe are evaluated by a multidisciplinary team formed by professionals of different specialities: xenophobia, surgery, anesthesiology, radiology, assisted reproduction, mental health, gastroenterology, endocrinology or physiotherapy. With regard to the derivations collected at the second point, it is already clear how it is done; but for the time being, all cases could, as I said, be addressed by the magnificent professionals in the Galician Health Service. We have also talked about the following point, about the outreach campaigns, and also about the training of professionals; which, by the way, is very broad in our autonomous community, and on which I would like to highlight the important role that the Galician Agency of Knowledge and Innovation in Health plays in this case as a promoter and indispensable organizer, which always achieves great results of participation. With regard to the differentiated care in fertility and the provision of resources for reproduction consultations, you know that there is a commitment by the Government, which has been fixed in the processing of the Demographic Impulse Law, in which it literally includes that "the Galego Health Service will ensure the treatment of assisted reproduction to those women whose fertility problems come from a pathology." And this is the case. Endometriosis is one of those diseases that are directly related to infertility and are therefore likely to be treated with assisted reproduction. So, as in other pathologies, women who have difficulty reaching pregnancy and who suffer from this pathology are, of course, likely to receive this type of treatment. As for the increase in the resources of assisted reproduction units, more material and human resources are currently being provided in relation to the implementation of the pre-implantational genetic diagnosis. Another of the points of the agreement is to activate health activity both in primary care, and in hospital consultations and surgeries, to ensure the necessary care for women who suffer from endometriosis. In order to improve the attention given in all services, and to improve the infradiagnosis, the specific extension of the ICAP2 -- the primary care derivation system -- has also been created, including both endometriosis and its variant of adenomyosis, which, in addition to what it requires for professionals and patients, will also be able to count on a clinical assistant. This extension will enable us to advance in the knowledge of the actual prevalence of disease in our autonomous community and thus be able to make decisions with real data. Regarding the demand of the Ministry of Health for the inclusion of treatments for endometriosis among those funded by Social Security, we have already sent a letter to the Ministry referring to this point as part of the agreement. In women who have to be surgically intervened, I have already moved forward in this plenary to make available in all the health areas of Da Vinci robots, where we invest more than 20 million euros and which enable, as you know, surgeons much more accurate and less invasive, and with better recovery of patients. Finally, we work according to the agreements of this Parliament, essentially facing the improvement of care and, above all, putting the tools in place for the Greek women to have a diagnosis of endometriosis as soon as possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u239	Look at one thing, Counselor, I am sorry that you have so much trouble coming here to this Parliament to realize what work you do in something so important and that it affects so many Welsh people. Bringing the BNG so many times to this Parliament, having unanimous agreements and the tireless work of an association as you wish, if you're going so slowly, I don't even want to imagine that we weren't on the subject. [[Applause]] They wouldn't have moved! That's the reality, they wouldn't have moved. [[Applause]] Of course, you come and dare say that, of course, we are heavy ones coming here, and that it seems to us little that has advanced. She said she's sorry she doesn't look like me. Of course, it is that if you had an incapacitating pain that causes you to lose your job, if you had pain continuously, that you had to be lying in bed, that you often couldn't walk -- and I can get the list of how you feel -- it just seemed to you, actually, that you're not taking enough steps, that you're not walking at the speed that you would have to walk. What happens, of course, is that we put ourselves on the outside, and everything!, for women, from the Bible, pain is one of our most supportive companions. We came to this world to suffer. Of course, that's the conclusion I have to arrive at, because, if it seems to you that what you've reported here is decisive steps, I should certainly make you look at it. [[Applause]] Because, I insist, all kinds of pain, difficulties in sexual relations; that is, a total condition of the life of women who need a proactive position on the part of the councillor you represent, Counsellor. You say you don't investigate much because, of course, when the diseases are manifested differently... it's the only disease that manifests in different ways and according to what people do! The others aren't, the others are one-way. It's just that the excuses are so varied that — I have to say so — we're more than full of excuses for when it comes to women's issues! That everything is excused not to advance at the required speed. Let's go now to the questions you said. See: raising the knowledge of the disease is not hanging a guide on the web page, it is a proactive position. Tell you an early attention. But, let's see, Counsellor, how many consultations are conducted in primary care due to pain of rule? Do you have any censuses? I'm saying this because to get early attention you'll have to know how many women, first, go to the consultation for pain of rule to primary. You'd have to start around, and you're not doing that. How many derivatives are made to specialists? Do you have that data? How many diagnostic tests, laparoscopics, resonances, I don't know, to really know the diagnosis of women? Because then you say that fertility treatments as they are, it is possible that those diagnosed are a pathology by which they may have a preferential treatment. Of course, but they have to have a diagnosis, a minor detail. And most people don't even have the diagnosis to be able to have that preferential treatment. Multidisciplinary services, but where do they exist?, where are they? I mean, you say a few units, exactly like those of poscovid care, sort of, right? That you put her name and then if someone has a problem, she calls, and maybe they meet there. But nothing's established. The subject of derivations. But if there's no protocol, Counselor. Who's he trying to fool? There's no protocol that doesn't depend on the will and volunteerness of the professional who treats them and that seems to him to have happened. But there has to be a protocol that says with these characteristics, with this pathology, with these pains, with this, so this protocol has to be activated. You can't stay in the volunteering of the professional or how much the woman complains to activate that protocol, it has to be established, and they don't have it. Don't fool us, Counselor. We can continue with the subject of research. In fact, isolated things. But do you think the prevalence of endometriosis doesn't really deserve counseling to put the batteries on? I'm going to take this poster out of the association itself, which they took out on Letter Day, in our language it's quite clear: "The pain of rule is not normal." [[Mrs. Prado Cores shows the House a sign.]] And you had to do all the work you could to transfer to professionals, to professionals, to all the professionals of the multidisciplinary teams that are not at the service of women and to the general population that the pain of rule is not normal. And by repeating it as a thousand times we realize once and for all that it's not normal to act so that women don't have that pain and to solve it. And that's what it's all about. The initiatives that we bring here and we'll keep bringing in until the batteries are placed, because the batteries have not been placed. And in the morning the new President of the Board, Mr Rueda, said that if propaganda and other concrete measures were to be put aside — he would refer to the Government of the State — I now refer to the measures of the Government of the Board, to their measures, they would not be appropriate. The propaganda of what they say they're doing with reality may not be. In fact, it's not possible, because there's no early care, nor the specialized units as it should. And I'd like you to explain what these specialized units consist of, what you call "creation of specialized units" and why you haven't taken those steps, why they're not multidisciplinary units. Look, the representatives of wanting, which is the most numerous association women represent in Galicia, are there seven years ago. And they were really excited that some measures were adopted in Parliament, which would mean that they would make decisive progress in solving the problems. Today they didn't meet with their predecessors, nor did you have the detail of calling them to tell them: look, this is going to Parliament all the time; this turns out we're watching you multiply around; we're going to sit down, we're really going to sit down and see what's going on, see how you see it. Because it's very easy to come here and say that BNG is an alarmist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u241	...and that we came here tired. But you have a chance there, you have it up there. Finish the interrogation and meet with them for them to contain it. And if they think that we've come here to alarm and that everything you say seems to you that they're already at the best of the worlds possible, because we BNG have absolutely nothing to say. So, I ask you when you're done meeting them or, if you don't have time today, you have a very busy schedule, you call them to address and put real measures on the table for the problems women have, so that you leave the good words and move on to the real facts, that you put measures in place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u243	...—Finished, President—investigating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u245	...to improve the quality of life, to address the problems of infertility, to treatments that do not carry an economic burden, to promote training and information among professionals. Measures, because genre nessions at this point cannot exist, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u247	21st century!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u249	We're not in the eighteenth century.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u250	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u251	And in the 21st century, you can't tell women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u253	...that they have pain that they endure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u255	You can't tell them!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Look at the wig! Look at the wig because then they're protesting me. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u257	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, I will clarify, Mrs. Prado, that you do not confuse my opinion about your assessment of the measures Sergas takes and my assessment of the pathology or the suffering of women. You play that many times, and I think it's very important to make the difference clear. What I'm saying is that I'd like many more things to be done in this pathology and in all the pathologies that we handle in Sergas, but things are done. What I'm not going to admit is that you say nothing is being done, which is what I meant by my intervention. And that does not question at all the suffering and suffering of women. [[Applause]] This is a pathology I'm not going to say new, it's a pathology that we've obviously been putting on the table for a while, the citizens, the sufferers, and also the health system. In that sense, I mean they took important steps. And a step, for example, is important that we have now and that there was no way to actually know how many women were treated with this pathology, or taken care of. In Galicia, since 2016, that is, in the last five years — because these data correspond to the year 2021 — they have been treated as hospital admissions, which, as you know or ought to know, is where diagnoses are coded, they are not codified in consultations or in the ambulatory field, because 1,165 women with coding, in this professional case, of endometriosis. In this period 1,333 were given high — the number is higher, since some of these women were actually able to enter on several occasions. We have the average age of these women, 40.5 years. And according to the type of endometriosis, the higher income figure corresponds to the women in whom the endometrial tissue has as its location the ovaries. This is the fruit of this awareness that we all have, probably — I have to say — thanks to you and also to the women of this association, to increasingly incorporate this information. Currently, at the start of this new encoding, in March 2021, there are 656 patients so far, with episodes recorded in primary endometriosis care. An important tool is to have that ICAP code of what I was talking about before. This data, no doubt, will increase as more women are incorporated who already have a previous diagnosis, and primary care personnel collect this code in the tool they use in electronic clinical history. From the Council — I said — we continue to work to reach — as I will repeat on several occasions — the quality of care and access to the diagnosis as soon as possible. So advance in the early diagnosis, that everyone — you, the professionals and the patients themselves —, of course, asks. That's why we have important tools. One is the incorporation of better diagnostic methods. In 2021 to Junta began a renewal and modernization of the €60 million health document, which enabled, for example, the purchase of Da Vinci equipment to favor surgical interventions, and thirty-seven radiosurgical equipment, as well as to initiate the modernization of the ultrasound equipment. For example, the 5.6 million that made it possible to acquire forty-eight radiodiagnosis ultrasound equipment — as you know, ultrasound is a fundamental part of this diagnosis. Or, for example, in September, with 700,000 euros to incorporate sixteen ultrasounds for emergency services and obstetric Xinecology. Teams are already installed in hospitals and with the training of professionals needed to be able to use them. So we've increased that diagnostic capacity, which allows for improvement in the creation of ultrasounds, especially in emergency services, since this is the main way in which the diagnosis of endometriosis is achieved. United, of course, to laparoscopy, to resonance, to TACs. We are now making an important investment for renewal, as you know. On the other hand, I have already expressed in this Parliament our clear commitment to improving women's health. And that's why in the iodine of this disease and throughout this legislation we will develop a specific care guide in Galicia, where an integral approach to pathology is collected and also the keys to further progress in early diagnosis. We'll continue to work on this pathology and on the other pathologies we're responding to. What I am not going to allow you, Mrs Prado, is that you say that the Greek health care professionals, the gynecologists, primary care doctors don't spend enough time or effort to put the best possible attention to this and all other pathologies. Yes, you did say that, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] I think we have to work among us all. And I always appreciate the initiative of the Bloc, PSOE and of course the Popular Group to improve the attention we give to our patients. And, of course, the participation of patient associations like this one that accompanies us today is fundamental. I insist: like all associations that day after day attend health centres or this Parliament to ask for improvements. There you will always find this council and the German Government, and not in demagogy and infra-valuation of what health professionals in the Galician Health Service and the Health Council have on every one of the pathologies that men and women suffer from. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u258	Thank you, Counselor. Let's go back to agenda item 7. You ask the Government. And we started with the question of Mrs. Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the continuity of the system of competitive competition grants for associations and federations of traders, open commercial centres, markets and markets for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u259	Whenever you want, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u260	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Vice President first. Small local trade has been in crisis for a long time because of a number of problems, such as the inability to compete with large chains and electronic commerce giants, there is no generational relief in small commerce, the depopulation of our land accelerates the closure of small businesses in rural areas, and, in addition, the crisis of coward 19 and now the economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. This whole situation makes many small and medium-sized businesses have to close their doors because of their lack of liquidity. Our parliamentary group has been alerting us since the beginning of this legislative process to the serious problems facing this sector. The reality that is emerging over these years due to its structural problems, more to the pandemic of coward-19 and now to the war in Ukraine seems complicated for the small and medium-sized trade sector and its associated tissue. So one of the concerns of today's trade associations and federations, open malls, markets and pitches is the issue of the grant order for this year 2022, which has not yet been convened. This concern is caused by the fear of last year's back when subsidies were not effective until November. If this happens again, trade-sector associations would not allow them to plan actions, in addition to having to justify them in a short time, which would already generate improvisation, and that's what they need at this moment of crisis. Another concern that these associations have is their accounts, as well as the subsidisable percentages for the different shares. And in case all of this was little, more concerns for trade sector associationism, which is the system's change in the adjudication of subsidies, which has so far been done by competitive competition. It seems that the Galician Union wants to change the system to a non-competitive competition system, and that would not guarantee access to grants from all associations, trade federations, open shopping centers, markets and outposts. And what I would do is many small associations of traders would disappear, especially small ones in rural areas. That's why our question today: is it going to Galicia's board to continue with the competitive competition grant system for trade associations and federations, open malls, markets and pitches for this year 2022?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u261	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Reply by Vice-President First and Economic, Industry and Innovation Advisor, Fr Francisco José Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, I am very pleased that you bring the situation of trade in proximity to this Parliament and, therefore, to be able to effectively realise what policies are being developed by the Council of Galicia to support the trade in proximity, one of the most important sectors of our productive fabric. I'm surprised that in his intervention really what's at heart is to once again be a spokesperson for his government. I'm surprised you're talking about the situation of the trade sector, of the proximity trade, generally, of structural problems, and you're not referring to the situation of inflation in Spain generated by an erratic economic policy of government. I'm surprised you're not talking about the impact you're having on the proximity trade, the increase in energy prices, the price of light and the increase in gas. And I'm especially surprised that you're not trying to move the measures that could really be effective right now with the proximity trade, such as a tax drop or how it would be to recover the direct aid that was not executed through the government lines and therefore to establish a more simplified system. I'm surprised you don't argue that there's a fair real income system for the times we're living. And I am also surprised that you are not supporting the proximity trade in this Parliament with a one-year moratorium on the return of ICO credits. I'm telling you about all these measures that are being pushed by the People's Party and that you, the Socialist Party, in Congress, vote against. So it's a fallacy that you're trying to move here the defence of the proximity trade when your party is really not defending the structural measures that could really benefit from the proximity trade and which, therefore, could face an economic situation generated by your government and which unfortunately does not have an answer. If you want to talk about how the Galician Union is supporting the proximity trade, we can actually talk about the different aid orders that we are putting in place. For example, through the Scan Order, which has just been published this same Monday. Or of the various aids that we are transferring to the productive fabric, to trade associations and trade federations and open malls and outposts, because, as you know perfectly well, Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has a greater intensity of help to these groups and therefore, for the past six years we have continuously reached more than 15 million euros to the different associations and federations, precisely, to dynamize and revitalize trade. If you want to be serious about the proximity trade, we are in favour, but of course, with a little rigour and seriousness, especially on the part of your party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u263	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u264	Thank you, President. First Vice-President, rigorous and serious when he didn't say anything to me at all, because he spent three minutes talking about the Spanish Government? Please, rigor and seriousness I ask you! [[Applause]] Tell me if the Galician Union will continue with the competitive competition system this year in grants for federations, associations, power stations, open malls this year 2022. Please tell me, and stop talking about the Government of Spain. We are not in Congress of Members, we are in Parliament of Galicia, which seems to forget. If you can answer me, I'd like to thank you. Tell me if you're going to continue with the competitive competition grant system and also talk about the Galician board and tell me whether you're going to call the aid already to open malls, to outpost squares, to trade associations and federations. Tell me because we're already in May, and they're still not summoned. See if it's going to happen like last year, that until November they haven't made any real. If you can answer these questions, it would be all right. Really, it seems amazing to me. [[Applause]] Look, last year's help came late, badly and dragged, and you come here talking about the Government of Spain. Well, look at how you manage your help. Because that they arrive in the month of November afternoon, bad and bad, the truth doesn't say much about their effectiveness and efficiency in granting these subsidies. The Greek Government has no planning in the grants for trader associations and federations, with all the evil that is happening. And yet above all they also released the idea that the Board now intends to manage all the subsidies through the Galician Trade Federation, which many of them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u265	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u266	...many associations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u267	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u268	Thank you very much. Close the question, the first vice president and economic, industry and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs. Gallego, I don't know why she got so nervous. I'm just not talking about the Government of Spain, I talked about the proximity trade and talked about measures that are necessary right now for the proximity trade, and that really your political party is not defending. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So I think you should certainly analyze what the reality is. [[Applause]] It's hard to talk about proximity trade if you don't come here to really talk about what structural measures you really need. With regard to the Order of Associations, Trade Federations, Open Trade Centres and Range Squares, that is, of all the associations that nothing has to do with the Galician Trade Federation, and I don't know why you say that if you're centralizing all the aid in the Galician Trade Federation, it's just a real lack of knowledge of the productive fabric you have. As I told you, this year 2022 we are going to overcome the 3 million euros allocated to these partnerships for the first time, after increasing the budget by 10%. And the associations, Mrs Gallego, know perfectly well the certainty of calling this aid order for the last five years, they know perfectly well that these aids have an annual character with the eligibility of the performances from November 1st to October 31st, and therefore they know perfectly well that all activities are eligible at the time when the aid order is called. That's a sure thing about associations. So from there on, we'll make the call. But we'll make the call, Mrs. Gallego, after we've talked to the associations. That dialogue and consensus that you preach but don't apply to the different policies that you promote. Indeed, the Galician Union is agreeing with the sector the different measures and improvements. Of course, it's an improvement in non-competitive competition because it will allow for greater agility in aid resolution. Of course, the Galician Board will apply and execute 100 percent and will therefore benefit from all requests that are submitted and that meet the criteria to exhaust the credit established in the aid order itself. Of course, we are going to introduce amendments so that 55% of the investment can be allocated to measures that may involve promoting commercial activity. And of course we will continue to ensure that the grantable period, Mrs. Gallego, is a year, and therefore from 1 November last year until 31 October this year will be eligible. And we're going to speed up the advances of 50% and we're also developing a training program to just continue to deepen the professionalization of these associations. So we're with the proximity trade and we're with the associations. You keep turning your back on the proximity trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u270	Thank you, Vice President first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u271	The next question is by Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias, of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Question from Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the evaluation of the Galician Summit of the actions carried out by the Central Government in relation to the execution of the PERTs and the strategic projects presented by Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u272	You have the floor to Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u273	Thank you, President. Good afternoon and welcome, Vice President first. Today the People's Parliamentary Group would like to ask you about the current situation of strategic projects for the most known recovery and transformation such as PERTE and the forecasts of the German Government regarding their impact on Galicia. In a more worrying socio-economic context, where the price of light continues to be higher than two hundred euros/megavatio and the measures of the Central Government remain unachieving, with inflation that records historical peaks, with the European Union's wishes that we will be the country of the euro area that will return to the pre-pandamy growth levels and with the Banco de España reducing the forecast of growth of the Spanish economy, it would be expected, Mr. Vice-President first, that the highest concern of the Central Government would be transparent, effective and fair management of the next Generation funds through the projects of the PERT. But no, nothing further than reality, the Government of Spain again fails and cannot continue to sell as a success the management of the European Funds Next Generation when the nine PERTEs approved at the Council of Ministers, with a total of more than EUR 33.700 million, has only launched aid calls for a total of less than 14%. A slowness that is jeopardizing the execution of funds within the deadlines which mark the European Commission and which is aggravated by the central executive's refusal to work with autonomous communities for real co-governance of this unique opportunity to boost the transformation and growth of industrial fabric, from maximum transparency, territorial and social cohesion and equal opportunities for all communities. And I didn't tell you this group, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, called for it from the European Union. And here I have a news that "Brussels urges Spain to look after public spending and reproaches you for delays with European funds." This is a news from Tuesday, May 24, yesterday. And at this slowness, Mr. Vice-President, we have to add the complexity of aid orders, which makes thousands of companies stay out of these projects. And we don't tell him, too, to the press this Monday: "Most companies give up asking for European funds for bureaucratic obstacles. The rigidity of the requirements, deadlines and management costs discourage many firms, and the employer warns that much of the productive tissue can be left out." And this morning, Mr. Vice-President, to our surprise, Mr. Álvarez was told that at these sectoral conferences the funds were allocated fairly and fairly to the communities, when reality we all know what it is. Mr. Sánchez, who had taken a trip to Falcon lands casually in the communities where he governs, assigning projects even before the call from the corresponding PERTe came out. And we all have memory and we see the press and we see the announcements of battery projects for Valencia or Extreme. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And today to finish, Mr. Conde, we would like you to speak to us here about how the Galician Board values the performances carried out so far by the Central Government in relation to the execution of the PERTEs and the strategic funds presented from Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Response from Vice-President First and Economic, Industry and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, I am grateful that the People's Party is bringing to this Parliament the debate on European funds, and, therefore, what is the situation that is really happening with the execution of these funds and with the criteria that are being established by the Government and its partners? And the reality is that there is a risk, there is a clear risk of losing strategic investments for Galicia, and there is also a risk that these funds may not be implemented. The reality, in an objective way, is that at present the distribution of European funds is marked by three worrying criteria: it is marked by centralism of government, slowness and lack of transparency. We're talking about centralism when the government is allocating 100 percent of all the funds for industrial projects. And, therefore, it is limiting the powers that the autonomous communities have in the field of industrial policy, because we deny the key instrument, which is the availability of these funds. There is centralism when the Government is reserving 66% of the funds it receives from Brussels, when President Sánchez's commitment was that the percentage of autonomous communities would be 50%. So there's an obvious concern about these criteria, just like there's an obvious concern when we talk about slowness. At this point, there are eleven PERTEs who have announced the Government, and of these eleven PERTEs only 17% of the about six billion euros that are being convened is at the disposal of the productive fabric through the calls published in the Official State Bulletin. That's the data. EUR 33,000 million has been announced through 11 PERTE and only 17% is in the Official State Bulletin with published calls. And we're talking about transparency because, effectively and unfortunately, the productive tissue does not know the 83% distribution criteria that are not published in the Official State Bulletin. That's the reality. The productive fabric of the naval sector does not know what the distribution criteria are going to be in the NETWORK. That's the reality! And we therefore believe that among all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament there must be a single voice to ask the Government of Spain to act with responsibility, to abandon centralism, to abandon the lack of transparency and, above all, to be more agile in the management of funds. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u276	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u277	Thank you very much, Vice President. As you have explained here well so far, the reality of European funds destined for Galicia is, as you have just said, regrettable. That Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, despite being an automotive leader in Spain counting on our nation's largest car manufacturer, remains out of the call of the PERTe in automotive is a terrible news, not only for Stellantis but for the thousands of auxiliary cars distributed throughout Galicia. And the members of the Galese Socialist Party, along with their favorite mayor in the head, the chaplains along with their favorite mayor in the head, defending as always the central government. [[Applause]] But they also don't respond to the project of textile and sustainable factories of the company Others, in the province of Lugo, an innovative and vital initiative for the entire province of Lugo and also for Galicia. And we also continue — as you say — without confirmation for naval aid, despite being leaders in the Spanish context, nor in the energy sector after declaring the early closure of the Greek thermal power plants. A scene, therefore, more than worrying, ladies. I, from my humble opinion, Mr Vice-President, believe that today the Central Government should have as its fundamental objective the radial deployment of European funds throughout the Spanish geography of the hands of the autonomous communities, which are the ones who know best their needs and strengths, to know which are the most suitable projects for their economies. And I'm going back to the press, ladies and gentlemen, "The communities are building up and demanding European Union funds for their own PERTE. Barons of the PSOE and the PP create a front to force Calvin to fund his strategic projects with the second phase of autonomous financing." Mr. Vice-President, the Galician Union has been in the process for years since the crisis of cowardice began with its priority tractor projects presented and I would like you, on this second turn of action, to inform us a little more about these projects and their opportunity for Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Close the question, Mr. Vice-President first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. Yes, Galicia did. Galicia met when the European Commission transferred the need to identify projects through public-private collaboration to move initiatives that could allow that transformation of our productive fabric, and did so in different sectors. He met in the automotive sector with a proposal from Stellantis for the Anchor project to allow the development of platforms, which can boost the construction of new models, and also met when he set up a proposal to develop a test circuit. At the moment, unfortunately, there is no response because the criteria established by the Government leave within the summons certain autonomous communities, such as Extremadura or Valencia, where the Government before the end of the deadline for submission of applications has already announced that there will be a winning project—curious!—. And as you see, Stellantis sees that neither by terms nor by aid intensities there are criteria that allow you to develop your projects. Just like the evidence circuit tracks, after being an initiative driven by the Government of Spain, by the Vigo Free Zone, now it turns out that investments are not eligible for European funding. That's the reality! Just like reality, we don't know the criteria for selecting the naval sector right now. Just like it's a reality that at present there are many projects that have not identified where they really can get the different help and therefore benefit from the European funds. And it's true. The productive fabric sees a real threat of being out of the distribution of European funds. We speak of small and medium-sized enterprises, which see how the difficulty and lack of information by the Government, hiding that information until it is published in the official state bulletins, in the rigidity of the requirements that the Government is setting, the deadlines of execution, or the impossibility of seeing fit into its projects, is generating a disincentive effect on the part of the productive tissue. There is a real need for the Government to turn its policy of executing European funds. There is a need for the Government to agree with the autonomous communities and for real co-governance between the Government and the autonomous communities. And there is a clear need to be able to collaborate with the productive fabric to really give you that answer and to execute the European funds, and that they are really an opportunity. Right now, the government is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u280	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u281	...by partisanly using European funds, and the funds are all fabric and are all Spanish. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u282	Thank you. Question by Mr Martín Seco García and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the forecasts of the Greek Government to use its powers to carry out an initiative that prevents the loss of a hundred jobs in the former Barreras yard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u283	Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u284	Thank you, President. After this impasse of several massages, Mr. Conde, we return to the session of the control of the German Government, which is what we are. Two months ago, the one who spoke to her asked her about the situation of Barreras workers living in front of the contest process in which the yard was immersed and passed on to her the need for the Greek Government to take the initiative to secure employment in the process of consulting the said competitive process. In view of the fact that one of the entities which had to issue a report was the board of directors of Galicia as the Harbour Authority could have used it to assess and quantify the industrial and labour proposals presented in the offers of purchase, in order to guarantee a future for the employment and industrial activity of the said yard. And this was not a whim of the Socialist Party, Mr. Conde, it was the request of the workers themselves or of their business committee, a business committee you didn't deserve. You, Mr. Count, — I don't know why you're not here right now — in these tough moments that the Barrera workers were living once again chose to disappear. The advisor in charge of this country's industry went back to hiding behind the Igape and didn't have a mouse to receive the affected workers. Vice-President, I'm sure if it was to announce the construction of a fleet of fleets and a base for Punta Langosteira if they had time, although it was only mere propaganda and, unfortunately, the beginning of the end of the Barriers yard, as it was known. But what did they do from the Harbour Authority? Absolutely, nothing at all! Here's the report: page and half that doesn't say anything at all. And so we arrived at the end of the competition process without the Galician board taking any initiative so that the bidders took over the one hundred and twenty-three workers who had the yard. [[Mr. Seco García shows you a document to the members of the House]] A short time ago, the judge announced that he would sell the production unit to Armon Shipyards for 14.7 million euros. The company — according to the auto — will subrogate only twenty-two hundred and three workers. Armon, in a statement, assured him that he took the witness with a view to relaunching the history and a hundredth anniversary yard to grow activity in the river. But today, the judge's decision is a cold water jug for the workers, who have regretted going to street 100 people with a German Government who have gone profiled throughout this whole sale process. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the German Government cannot follow the ship's workers in the Vigo stream. They should activate their competences both at the economic and industrial level, as well as at employment level, to carry out three questions: the first, to get the new owner to expand the number of workers he collects in his purchase offer; the second, to put in place a plan for the relocation of workers affected by the future dismissals; and the third, to develop a plan for the reactivation of the private shipbuilding sector in the Vigo River. Sir, I think that — in this case, aa!, it will be Mrs Lorenzana, who did not see her — first of all that I have just exposed and the concern of the Barriers workers, I would like to ask them whether they intend to use their skills at the industrial, economic and employment level to carry out an initiative that will improve the number of jobs offered by the new owner of the Barriers yard and some for the relocation of the affected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u285	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u286	...for the farewells contained in the offer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u287	Look what I've done to show you, but sometimes we don't communicate. She will be answered by the Employment and Equality Promotion Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u288	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Seco. You are again insisting that the Galician Council should enter into a decision of a trade tribunal and also through a report which should issue a port of general interest, which depends on the Ministry of Transport. So if the decision could somehow influence, it should be the Ministry of Transport. In any case, we won't be challenged by a court decision or interfered with a competitive sale process. We have been working with the workers and with all the operators and actors involved in the situation and conflict of Barreras, and meeting with them for a long time. After the month of February, I was the one who met with the Barriers Business Committee to tell you this: that we can't intervene at any time in a process, in a contest and in a court decision or in the contest administrator, if that's the case, and much less in the report that the port authority could issue. What if we told them -- and I'm telling you here -- is that we're going to be there to support those hundred workers affected by their professional retraining. This is not a statement of good intentions. We're already doing this today with the Empreganav project, as you know, with the workers affected by the redundancies of small and medium-sized companies linked to the auxiliary industry of the Greek naval. It's fifty people we're working with now in professional recycling, and we're going to do it now with Barreras staff. We've already signed it, so it's not a statement of intent. And in the same month of May, we have signed a collaboration agreement with Aclunaga — with the Galego Naval Cluster Association — to form, among others, these hundreds of workers. In total, it will be six hundred and eighty-six workers, to update their professional skills and to acquire new ones, to the very end of their rapid placement in the Greek labour market. As you also know, the naval strategy 2022-2026 is already underway to boost this sector, innovation, training, training, digitization, but I would really like to ask you. We're putting all our skills into operation. But you would also have to do something self-criticism, and you just said Mr. Conde: where is the ship's PERTE? What do you know about those 300 million? Because what I can assure you is that if the ship's PERTE arrives in Galicia, if there will be trained and trained workers because, as I'm telling you, the instrument for training these workers is already planned. I think instead of being asking here, because our competences are already being exercised in active employment policies, but they should be asking about Galicia and these naval workers to the Government, their Government in Madrid, when the ship's PERT will be called, from which we know nothing and know nothing about the Welsh naval industry. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u289	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u290	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Lorenzana, I haven't seen her. However, it is very significant that when asked about industrial policy, it answers the Union with training policies for the unemployed. This indicates the policy of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Mrs. Lorenzana, you have just started a new old government and Mr. Rueda, the new president, has before you the first industrial crisis as the most responsible of the German Government. It has to decide whether it follows the non-existent industrial policy that has characterized the government of President Feijóo or marks a turning point on the issue of Barreras. According to the recently published INE figures, the business figure of the Welsh industry dropped by 7% in March, with the community falling most across Spain in a month of widespread progress throughout the Spanish state, with an average increase of 13.2%. In the Vigo River we observed the deterioration of employment during its eleven years of government. Between the facilities of the old Vulcan and those of Barreras they won't add up to half a hundred workers on a yard that counted hundreds of workers in both cases. In the meantime, its Government is still not using the skills to dynamize the sector and involve proprietary companies to have a level of self-employment that is not residual and to paralyze the precarious employment in yards with excessive subcontracting, which does not guarantee the proper and safe functioning of its activity. Mrs. Lorenzana, you, who have left the job of quality at the Vulcan yard — now in Barreras — with a sale endorsed by the president of the Union to Pemex himself and that the Mexican president even catalogued the scam by the Galician board, an agency that has managed the negotiations between the shipyard and the Mexican oil tanker, have the opportunity to prove that another kind of industrial policy can be done to reactivate the employment and activity of the naval. The ball's on your roof, Mrs. Lorenzana. Workers are waiting to see if a new measure is activated so that the new owner will increase the existing template, see whether they are working on relocating the workers who are out of work and seeing whether they are acting on a plan to relaunch the naval in the Vigo stream.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u291	Thank you, Mr. Seco. To close the question, the Employment and Equality Promotion Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u292	Thank you, President. The position of the socialists seems to change according to the counsellor who is responding and according to the moment and place; they have no criteria, depending on what's best for them. [[Applause]] In the first intervention it seems that the problem was that we did not pressure enough the competitive administration, the commercial court and the Port Authority of Vigo. But when he suddenly discovers that the Port Authority of Vigo is a port of general interest and depends on State ports, that no longer matters. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In the first intervention it seems they were interested in employment policies, but when employment policies — I tell you — are being exercised because there is an agreement signed, then the problem is industrial policies. You don't seem to like the decision of the Vigo Mercantile judge, but we, from the People's Party and from the Government, are not going to question a judicial decision. Now, if it is true that the Minister of Science and Innovation on May 23rd -- this Monday -- was introduced at Armon de Vigo's facilities, accompanied by the General Fisheries Secretary, to take a picture there — as much as they don't like —. You know, I think it's like taking pictures -- as Members of this House were taking photos -- you keep photographing the workers to confront; instead of, as we were doing, meeting with each of the agents involved -- I repeat myself -- with the company committee, to try to dialogue, to try to calm down and to try to inform. His party was the same as that, when since the Unity of Galicia and from the Igape he offered funding in the worst situation of Barreras, he said he did not; he stood aside and was unable to provide funding, that he was providing the Board of Galicia; i.e., that is, he is very co-participate of what happened in Barreras. And come here to say that we exercise our powers and carry out our work! I'll tell you what I told you in the first intervention: do something about why the ship's PERTE arrives in Galicia. Or are we going to find out what's going on with the car's PERT, that before the call's over, Mr. Sánchez was already announcing who was going to be the PERT's beneficiary? I think Galician companies have the right to know the requirements and calls of the PERTE. It is more than 300 million euros, and here — I tell you — there will be trained workers and trained workers, because we will develop the skills we have. We have skills in active employment policies, and I can assure you that we will solve them. But please intersperse with the Socialist Party — the Government of the State — so that the vessel's PERTE can have any opportunity. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u294	Two questions are now debated in a cumulative way: one is the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which will formulate its Lady Marina Ortega, and the other is the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, which will be formulated by Mr Iago Tabares. Da Marina Ortega Otero and Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the conduct of the mayor of Ourense against a union representative Question by Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the aggression of the mayor of Ourense to a union representative
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u295	He begins by asking the question to Mrs. Marina Ortega. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u296	Thank you very much, President. A few weeks ago — as you all know — the mayor of Ourense committed an unacceptable assault. But for this, we have to go ahead. In 2015 there are municipal elections in Ourense and PP is the first force. They said, by then, literally: "We see perfectly possible a minority government in Ourense with timely agreements." At the same time, Jacome launched the proposal: to deal with PP or PSOE, on condition that they let him be mayor. What's the result? That the socialists do not accept by principle, and ruled the most voted force; in this case, the People's Party. What happened in 2019? [[Murmurs.]] The first force was the Socialist Party. Here at the PP it was no longer appropriate for him to see a minority government. And once again, Jacome makes the proposal: to deal with the PP or the PSOE on the condition that they let him be mayor; to the difference that, on this occasion, the PP agrees to prevent him from ruling the PSOE, to the surprise even of his own voters. For what? To tie up the deputation. The Feijóo no longer seemed as lethal to Ourense — as Jácome once said — and after campaigning against each other they agreed on what exchange of chromium: the MP and the Jácome Town Hall. In September 2020, after Jácome's problems with justice, the PP breaks the pact to force his resignation, but Jácome does not resign; so all parties come to the same conclusion that a motion of censure is the only way out, except for the PP, which is long. And in order not to recognize that it is long enough, the PP begins with a certain prepotency an escalation of unattainable taxes to never reach an agreement, thus tying power in the Deputy, through which they pay so many favors in the province. The first imposition was on the head of the winning candidate, Rafa Villarino. All this to force a exclusively unilateral disagreement to tie up the Deputy. And what happened after this theatrical negotiation of the People's Party? They decide to hide their ears before Jácome and return to the two-party PP-Jácome, which motivates very serious consequences for the People's Party in Ourense, as it resigns the leader of the PP in Ourense and former mayor, Jesús Vázquez, who literally says: "The decisions did not take them me and everything came to me. I didn't paint anything there." And do you want to sell us Mr. Rueda who delegate the decision to the Councillors of Ourense? But do they believe that we are fools and that we don't know that the decisions are, without a doubt, starting from the summit of the Welsh PP? Keeping the mayor after assaulting a woman who manifested herself is very serious, it's a totally serious fact! [[Applause]] From the PP they don't know where to get into because they're aware of gravity, but they're trying to practice ostrich politics to keep tying up the Deputy, who's got her hair. They get away from it, but they know that citizenship has eyes on PP, because it's up to you to reprobate or keep Jacome. All parties agree. Join us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Why don't you want to talk? This is the truth: two don't negotiate if one doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what else has to happen in Ourense to leave political escapism and leave the two-party complicit with Jacome? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u297	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Now you ask the question, Mr. Iago Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u298	Congratulations, Counselor. It's our willingness to work for justice -- I don't think it's very high -- but, in any case, it's wasting time, because we haven't even had a CEO of Justice for several days. Our question is to mark a position of your group, of the Government of Greece, on this institutional and democratic degradation that we are suffering from in Ourense. We don't expect to lead this municipal government, at least until May 2023, but this situation, this degradation situation, is intolerable, something that you are the main responsible, because you with public funds fed to the mayor today. [[Applause]] You — and not citizenship — made this man mayor knowing that he was harmful or that he was going to be harmful to Ourense's citizenship. And then the consequences, what are they? The consequences are the May 3 episode. But this isn't even the last -- and much less the last -- it's another episode. Previously, there were episodes of such dubious democracy as "retarded or borderline" to Augustine Hernández, "psychopate or mad" to Manuel Baltar, "mersible and dictator of enterprise" to Jesus Vázquez, "tipas and macara"—this time— Luis Seara or "the personified futility" to his fellows and fellows of the People's Party; heading in plenary acts to a corporation companion with expressions of the type: "ti flipas, babe" or threaten also a representative of the People's Party to "speak of your private life"; "professional jets" to trade unionists, "police mafia" to police officers, "vaces left mainly filled by PP and the PSOE" to public officials, and "jode you, who lost" in full sporting competition in the middle of a central street. This is what the People's Party has for Ourense citizenship. At what cost? Two million euros only in advisors, only in wages and social security for the orensans. This is the cost of that government that they are maintaining and that they are promoting. In exchange for what? Of having a city paralyzed. If we talk about the auditorium here? Our auditorium is closed. If we talk about Next Generation funds? We don't present any project, and they send us back 1,400,000 euros of funds from the Square of Abastos which, by the way, we also have unmanaged closures. And this didn't vote for citizenship, you voted for it. In exchange for what? In exchange for withholding power. The goal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, cannot be to retain power. They have to think of Ourense's citizenship in this case. Make an annotation. Every time we talk about Ourense in this Parliament it is bound to be a negative fact, and the worst thing is that almost always is true, and that is responsibility not for citizenship, it is the responsibility of the People's Party. First... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u300	...to promote the deputation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u301	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u302	...this gentleman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u303	Thank you. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Counsellor Justice and Sports, Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u304	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I'm surprised because now we've come to answer questions that have to do with the Government of the Union, as you say, continuously, but don't worry because we're going to try to give you a satisfactory answer to the two voices of the two groups. First, starting with Mr. Tabares' comment on the exit of the Director General of Justice, I'll tell him it was because he was appointed Secretary of the Government Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, from which we are very proud, and I think it's a good way out. But if you were trying to identify that this party or that this government has no respect for justice, I would like you to express yourself or tell me what the position of the Galician Nationalist Block is with regard to the condemnation that just suffered — a month or a month or a month or so — a building of the Galician Nationalist Block that prevented a motion of censure in the Fene Council, knowing it was an illegal act. He went to trial and the judge sentenced her for this illegal act. I'd like to know if it's about the legality and democracy of what you're talking about, because there were representatives of the Block, and very proud they were. [[Applause]] So you have a chance to comment on it. [[Applause]] But don't worry. Let's figure out what they really want to know. The question you ask is if we condemn aggression. The answer is yes, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone! irrespective of whom it is produced. By the way, this one who talks to them, along with another fellow -- who is not here right now -- we suffer aggression when we were concelers at the Ferrol Town Hall: they didn't let us in, they pushed us and they called us everything. I missed the solidarity of you and of you because they didn't say anything, absolutely nothing! [[Mr. Calvo Pouso marks the opposing sides.]] And I'm not talking to you anymore, ladies and gentlemen, about the footprint of the general elections. [[Applause]] I'm not talking about that anymore, because we could talk about it long and hard -- and you know what I'm talking about -- But, therefore, do we condemn all sorts of aggression? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all kinds, regardless of who it is and whatever it is. Don't be doubted! Secondly, do we respect union activity? Of course! And thirdly, Mrs Ortega, do you want to be serious or do you want to be a politician and a fool? Because that's what you want. If you want me to rule the most voted list, we immediately make an agreement between the three parties that have the most representation in Galicia and take it forward. What it can't be, Mrs Ortega, is what you try to do: that you change arguments, change principles and change the rules of the game as appropriate. We agree that it is the most voted party that governs, of course. [[Murmurs.]] And you, too? In Ourense, of course, he wouldn't rule the PP in coalition; but in the Coruña, in Ferrol and in Lugo he would rule another party. And at the Coruña deputation. By the way, Mr Bará, you have the data quite badly — that, if I can and will give me time, I will give it to you afterwards. [[Laughter]] In the Coruña Parliament would not rule the Socialist Party and but the Block, but it doesn't matter, because there we add and we can get the PP out of the way. So let's be serious. If you want to sit down and are willing to come to an agreement between parties, to a serious agreement - and if you need to, we will also bring it to Parliament - to which we rule the most voted list, regardless of the party, we agree. If what they want is to make noise, they're going to do it on the other side! That, by the way, they're going wrong because they're still there. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u305	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. For the reply, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u306	Thank you, President. It seems that the People's Party only wants to rule the most voted list if its balance comes out. It's all business, no coherence, no principles, no values, in the face of a totally serious situation, because we're talking about an aggression of the highest institutional representative of a city. They seem to be overlooked this question! Nothing to do with the interests of citizenship because, if they really looked at the interests of the oransansans, they would not sign a PP-Jácome bipartite, keeping him in power not the first or the second, but the third force of the city of Ourense in the last elections. The seal of the People's Party led by Feijóo will always be marked by being the first and only of all Europe to baptize a bipartisan government with the far right: in Ourense, the bipartisan with Jácome after stating that he is such for Ourense, lords of the People's Party. [[Applause]] You know what's more serious? The worst is not populism or extremism itself. The most serious thing is that a party which assumes democracy and government, like the People's Party, gives them an acubility in institutions. And that's inversely proportional to everyone's rights, also to their own. But the attitude of the People's Party in Ourense is increasingly extreme. Because who are you to ask for the head of the socialist candidate, who did nothing wrong — rather than winning the elections, of course —? Do you think you're above democracy? Do you think power belongs to you? No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The power is from the people, and what the people vote must be respected, even though it boils blood on them when we ask for explanations about the only five privileged companies in the whole province that carry the cake of most minor MP contracts with money from everyone. Are there any more companies in the province? [[Applause]] Let's talk straight. [[Murmurs.]] That's what makes them suck, but to be quiet, they didn't vote for us in the polls. They've been ruling for 40 years in the province's parliament with the highest percentage of pensioners, the lowest salaries and lowest state pensions, and the worst crop balance due to the flight of a whole generation of boys and girls who, despite living in a province full of opportunities and potentials, had to make the suitcases for not offering you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u307	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u308	...opportunities to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u309	Thanks, time's up. [[Applause]] Mr. Tabares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u310	Mr. Calvo, we do not discuss the legitimacy of the Government or the democratic pacts. All we demand is responsibility, responsibility for your actions. Why? Because this has consequences. To distort an institution, to denigrate an institution and to denigrate democracy has consequences, and the consequences we see today by another person — subject to contracts by the MP — who goes to a chamber and who calls a political representative a daughter of a whore. That's not democracy, and that's what they're promoting! [[Applause]] You may be the victim. I told him victims of all colors: Jesus Vázquez, former socialist mayors and, of course, also of the Nationalist Block Galego. And useless was what they called you last month. That's the democracy they're promoting. Institutions must be above people and parties. We can't choose two senators when one of the first to manifest is their willingness to give up the political condition of Galician and get stuck in Madrid. That's putting the institution in the service of people. And that's what we're rebuking them. [[Applause]] What we're rebutting to them is statements like Baltar's, that you won't have to vote for Jacome. No, but in the line of Caritas if he passes the bill, in the city of Ourense if he passes the bill and in the democratic degradation of the city if he passes the bill. Stop thinking about the People's Party and think about people. People have to be first. And, I'm telling you, this afternoon, this afternoon, the counselor, for example, who was present, was talking about the auditorium, and we the audience have closed it, the cultural sector assaulted and completely paralyzed from the Town Hall. If you're talking about grants, we're talking about grants and projects that don't even show up. That's what you're encouraging. And you're responsible, not the citizenship of Ourense. That's clear! And finally, with reference to justice, I'm very glad you're a CEO. What I'm glad less is that we've been without the general director of Justice for so many days, there are very important measures for justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u311	Thank you, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u312	Thank you very much. You have asked this question, Mr Second Vice-President and President, Justice and Sports Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u313	Maybe I wasn't clear, but I repeat: we condemn all kinds of aggression, whoever it is, and not just selective aggressions as you do, and that's why they're not credible. And we make the same offer, Mrs Ortega, but forever. We're a year from the municipal elections. Let's sit down in that spirit of dialogue that now shows the parties that are in the opposition, let's sit down and make an agreement between parties: that we rule the most voted list always and in all places, not when it suits you, that's what they want to do. Because you're specialists in dealing with who you love and forcing the PP to deal with who you want. And that can't be, that can't be! Because here we all have to play with the same rules. He spoke of the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block about democracy and about institutions. Home!, having a coalition with a party that has people condemned to belong to an armed gang, who has people condemned to murder innocent people of the Socialist Party or People's Party, you have a lot of choice to talk about democracy and to teach lessons in agreement with other parties. [[Applause]] I believe that, if there is a party that should be more respectful of these things, don't miss people and don't break agreements that have existed since the beginning of democracy, like not to be sidelined with those who support terrorism, it's you who should be silent. They should be quiet and should not appear in photos and acts with Bildu's representatives. They shouldn't go on the same list, they shouldn't go! [[Applause]] But that's your decision, yourself! I don't know if collective or UPG -- give me the same -- but you're on the same list. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party has come here to ask us to condemn the aggressions. We agree and I'll tell you. What about Pol's mayor? Pol's mayor, what party is he from? [[Murmurs.]] Because about Pol's mayor we didn't bring any initiatives to this Parliament, there wasn't such an important riot when he was about to shoot a person who was playing the bomb. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But there the representatives of the Socialist Party shut up. Then they shut up, because there they look somewhere else. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll tell you again. We condemn all the aggressions: those of the mayor of Pol, those of the mayor of Ourense, all kinds of assaults. And when they do them to us, too. And neither did I ever see them, nor did I see them being on our side, ever! And I came from a city where we had to endure them many times — and those who are from there know it — but I never saw them next to us. But it's okay, let's keep working. Do you want to make that deal that governs the most voted list? We're ready. Let's sit down and talk about it. By the way, at the Crown Deputy, Mr Bará, the POS, when I ruled, was 43 million, but there were many more additional plans. No, no, I'm making use because you referred to me and my management when I was... says the regulation that it's in the same session... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But don't worry, I won't tell you any more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u314	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u315	I won't tell you any more. Fortunately, when I ruled — and some other member of the opposition today was there — 80%, 85% or 90% were executed. Today you run 40% of the budget. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso marks opposition benches]] That's a pity, and it's something you shouldn't be proud of. [[Applause]] Finally, and finally, we can begin by condemning the aggression of the mayor of Pol, we can begin by condemning the aggression of the mayor of Ourense and we can lay the foundations for a pact towards the future. We'll see if you want or we'll see if what they're trying to do is to come to Parliament and make a fool of you. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the execution board and the results of the rental aid to under 35 years of age in 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u316	You have the word Mrs. Alexandra Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u317	Good afternoon, ladies. When youth cannot be emancipated, many of its projects automatically get alibi and paralyze. And for every young man and girl who for this reason is deprived of professional, academic and vital opportunities, what we are doing at the bottom is impoverishing the whole of society. That's why the problem of emancipation has to be addressed as a first-rate social problem, because the opportunities that young people have today will define the society that we are today, but also the society of tomorrow. And about this great problem, counselor, I'm going to make two great revelations to you, because it seems that you're still not very conscious. The first is that we have a tremendous emancipation crisis in Galicia. Only 15% of the Greeks between the ages of 16 and 29 can be emancipated. But there's a second data that is more clarifier and more serious, which is the rate of emancipation in the 30th. Because, if young people reach this age, they continue without being able to live independently, it indicates that there is a problem and that there are serious problems and difficulties. In Galicia, this emancipation rate between the ages of 30 and 34 is in four out of ten boys who can't make an independent life. The second worst rate of the whole state! And these aren't ninis, they're thousands of people who can't afford to pay the current wages, because they have to spend on average 60% of their wages paying the rent. And these are the data that leave black on white the emancipation crisis in Galicia, which, as I say, places us at the state queue. And the second revelation I come to make to you, Counselor, is that you are the ultimate responsibility for the competences in this matter, because I think you haven't noticed yet; because, if you look at what you've done, there's no specific plan for emancipation in Galicia. [[Applause]] He didn't remember to talk about this in the new housing plan either. The Council did not push the first program to address the emancipation of young people with accessible rents. The only help for this matter was the rental aid collected in the state housing plan. And they didn't do that right. Because all they had to do was summon those aids and process the funds. And here what they did was again critical actions. What did they do? In 2020, they did not call the aid; in 2021, they had a ridiculous budget of EUR 840,000 and only 540,000 were executed; that is, they left 300,000 euros without spending when there are thousands of young people who are unable to cope with the rent. That's why I ask you three questions, Counselor. Tell me if you are aware that Galicia is in the queue of emancipation; if you, as a maximum responsible, have some emancipation strategy and explain to us what it consists of — because we don't see it anywhere — and, thirdly,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u319	...to explain the execution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. You know the questions. [[Applause]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u321	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Fernández, indeed, I agree with you that we should improve the emancipation rates of the youngest, and that's what the Council of Galicia is working on. And in addition, it's an obligation not only to the Council of Galicia, we must have it in every institution, including the Central Government. Today, a young man continues to find it difficult to start an independent life. We all know that. And, of course, I think it's the obligation of the institutions to support them. In recent emancipation indicators, the effect of the pandemic is also observed, and the effect of central government policies is being observed. You see that the light and the shopping basket are getting more expensive, and the fuels are getting more and more expensive; and, therefore, this has an impact on the emancipation of Thursdays. And I'm saying that, as you rule in Madrid with the Socialist Party, it would be good if you knew — because for some things they rule and for others they don't. [[Murmurs.]] However, let me comment on some of the data from the Emancipation Observatory, the Spanish Youth Council, which you mention. Because he mentions some things and not others. Are we satisfied? I have to say no, but it turns out your data is not real. Galicia actually has an emancipation rate of 15.2%, but Galicia is above the national average, above the national average! And it does it in addition to 0.3 points -- the national average is at 14.9% -- That "we're in line"... can we get better? Yeah, but we're not in line. We're at first, and I wish we were much better. On the other hand, I have to tell you that this observatory also says that, in the housing market, Galicia is of the least exclusive, of the least exclusive of all autonomous communities! Moreover, it says that the economic cost of access to a young person's home, whether purchased or rented, remains of the lowest in Spain. Those are the realities. So when you talk about an observatory and when you talk about data, it's good that all data is given. Don't do as Mr Bará, who suddenly turns out to be someone who interests you. It's good to remember because we're in a late afternoon where memories are fundamental, we don't have to make static themes. [[Murmurs.]] We've been working since June. We've been working for years on Thursday's emancipation. We have, and you know, created the Vivenda Observatory. The average of the last few years, since 2018, is that two thousand Thursdays have received rent assistance, they're younger than 35 years. And in addition, we have more than 500 help to purchase, to facilitate the purchase of those under 35 years of age. It was in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, it was in historic helmets and also for public housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Replica, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u323	Thank you, President. I'm going to explain the data, Counselor, so you can try to understand the problem of emancipation in Galicia. So let's see, there are two data: between 16 and 29 years, 1.5 out of 10 young people can't be emancipated, and then there's another data, which is 30 to 34 years, and we're talking about that rate. Why is this fee important? Because when you're that age and you still can't get an emancipation, you're revealing serious problems, while the other rate also reflects another type of student displacement and other case studies. So the most important emancipation rate we care about is the age of 30-34. And that's where Gallica is seconded by the tail, just behind the Canary Islands. Let's see if you know what the actual emancipation data is, because it doesn't know and has a problem. [[Applause]] And the second thing that I'm certifying your speech is that you are deeply unaware of the problem of emancipation, the cases of why people are in that situation. You systematically propose formulae for home purchase help as a solution. I'm going to see if someone in Junta does this reflection: a young man who can't be emancipated because he's not able to pay the rent at the end of the month, that someone explains to me how he's going to be able to have a prior savings to have a purchasing capacity to pay the mortgage every month and that he has the security and job stability that allows him to be indebted to a mortgage. Is anyone in the Union able to make this reflection? [[Applause]] The conclusions of this reflection are very simple, and it is that purchasing aid is not addressed to precarious youth with low incomes, which is the one that can't be emancipated, and the second is that the best rate of emancipation is achieved essentially by facilitating affordable rents. Do you know what your strategy is here? Zero, null, not the first policy to help the rent accessible to youth. Change politics once and for all, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. Close the question, Environmental Advisor, Territory and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u325	Thank you, President. Mrs. Fernández, I see that the second thing is going on in the afternoon, the tone is growing, every time it screams a little more. Mrs. Fernández, don't try to twist the data. The data is what they are and we have to analyze them all. Therefore, Galicia has an emancipation rate above the national average. It's not good, it's superior to the national average. We have a less exclusive housing market than most autonomous communities. That's what the study reflects, which is the study you refer to. And the economic cost of a young person's access to housing is one of Spain's lowest. That's the reality. In view of all this, it must be said that when you say that there is no strategy of any kind, you are insulting the Vivenda Observatory, where the entire Greek society is represented. You should be part of that Galician society, but it seems not, it's excluded. Make contributions, just like the rest; they're contributions. And I have to tell you, when you say we're not helping the weakest, yes, we are helping the weakest. The rent for those who need it, and when someone decides to start a new life by buying, we're also helping him. This same year 2022, the Union allocates 26 million euros to direct aid for the payment of rent. And the lines are as follows: The social rent bonus, which fully depends on the board of Galicia, and where Thursdays and women are priority. And you do it to me like that. What's the matter? What don't you want? [[Mr Vázquez Mejuto opens her hands.]] You don't want those bonds. That's for the rent, they're summoned, open all year round. There's the boy rental bonus, the one that's been pretending to be the central government for six months, and that hasn't even arrived a single penny to the autonomous communities and they're waiting for Thursdays. You who want to be next to the central government, are also to demand that these funds reach the autonomous communities. There's the Young People's Help Program to contribute to the demographic challenge, and there's the help in renting the State Housing Plan. By the way, the state housing plan that we provide 30% and that we are not able to sign the agreement, because it doesn't want the central government, Mrs. Fernández, and we contribute 30%, and that's why they haven't been published yet. But it's more: when you say a young man can't have saved, that's what the "Youth Step Down" is. That Youth Aval is 15%, and we're together with Murcia the only autonomous community that's putting it into action. And you know why we can do it? Because we have the healthy accounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u327	...and because the Ministry had to look at it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u328	Thank you. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on aid to small and medium-sized meat holding
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u329	You have the word of Mr. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u330	Thank you, President. Counsellor, on 28 October 2020, the Order of exceptional temporary aid to the most disadvantaged agricultural sectors for the purposes of cover-19 was published, aid co-financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In that order, in Article 6(4), it was arbitrarily established as conditions for access to such aid that the holding had more than ten suckler cows. This nonsense and offense were answered from the BNG at the moment here in this house by initiatives to questions to the Government and, like not, by various agrarian organizations. This disincentive blocked access to these aid to more than 10,000 small Greek meat farms, more than half of which are active, as if they did not exist, as if they did not manage territory, as if in most cases they did not mean supplementary income for families who maintain their living and activity in disadvantaged areas of our country, making mockery and ridicule and constituting a serious rural face, arbitrary and incomprehensible discrimination. There is nothing to do with the theory that comes from Europe, of course, which permeates all the economic discourses that are held around the countryside by the institutions, particularly the Galician Union, governed by the People's Party. These easy speeches, which insist on the necessary protection, empowerment and support for small and medium-sized family farms, blah, blah, blah, which then, as the above-mentioned facts show, remain in empty words of content. Go to the Galician Labour Union and bring the matter to justice and the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in its judgement did not fail the sector and put things in its place. Little did we know about this country's free press with that subsidised freedom, but we all know that. What now?, are you going back or are you going to file an appeal against the judgment? And you'll be able to?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u331	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u332	Thank you very much, President. He changed the content of the question, because it was another one he had. But I'll try to answer as I always do, first of all, clarifying things with regard to your explanatory statement. There was indeed a pandemic, there was a very complicated situation, and there was a need for funds to be activated, which in this case came from the EAFRD, as you well said. The European Union itself has authorized exceptional temporary aid, with a limit that was set at 2% of the 2014-2020 EAFRD. That 2% was actually used by the Galician Union — of course we will talk about beef aid — and it was in any case a priority to take advantage of these aids to ensure the survival of certain sectors, such as ornamental plants, cut flowers and, of course, beef. But, of course, within the speech I had commented on earlier in my interpellation, again referring to the inconsistencies of the Block, I have to bring here the collation, Mr. Rivas, the PNL that you yourself presented, number 12,391, early last year, about these aids to the flesh. There was a GNP, ladies and gentlemen, in which the third proposal was read: "To include in this aid a direct payment for those holdings composed of gainful persons primarily for which their basic means of life is." This proposal was supposed to coincide with the People's Party on a fundamental issue: to help rather the gainful and professional workers who lived mostly of this activity, which was also what you proposed in the reform of the CAP, as well as the Galician Labour Union. Because in such an exceptional situation, the decision to consider only farms of more than ten suckler cows responded to the object of ensuring the true viability of the long-term sector. Does it make sense, ladies and gentlemen, to demand a minimum to be considered a professional gainee with long-term viability? Totally. Just like having a garden doesn't make us farmers. Mr. Rivas, you signed this LNP. While today's issue is contrary to the real viability of the question that was intended to be achieved with direct assistance. And I wonder how I wondered in the interpellation: as long as the Nationalist Block continues to discriminate against the initiatives of the Greek Government still in agreement with them, how do we see in the GNP that I just moved it? Ladies and gentlemen, it was direct aid that assumed 7 million euros that reached over 4 billion six hundred Greek farms. In the defense of our primary sector, all the effort is little to reach the goal. Far beyond direct aid, we need to implement measures that make our owners pay a proper price for their products. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u334	Counsellor, as you say, you have made the Order of Aid to the Meat on the basis of this BNG PNL; that is, you are following, and now you've just confirmed my history differently. Look, I refer myself to the sentence. For example, the technical report from the Directorate-General of Ghenderie says: "In the light of the technical report we have provided we conclude that the contested precepts do not involve discrimination because they aim to act on the holdings that are viable." Which means farms of less than ten nursing cows are not viable. But in addition to the meeting before the promulgation of this order, you were warned by the Labour Union, and not just by it — I think — that they entered into a delicate situation for the future of the farms and that they would incur this contradiction. But it's more: they didn't care that 50% of these farms you leave are the name and title of rural women. You look at the statistics! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's more: only 4,621 farms of the 19,000 could be benefited, only 50 % of which are registered in Terreira Gaga. You want me to tell you more? The Court of Justice is clear: to recognize the right of persons holding holdings of less than ten units not self-consumption and to have declared income for activity to be eligible for aid in the contested order. What are you going to do? And don't get me out of context with the GNP we presented, it was in another context, different from this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u335	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u336	Mr. Rivas, it's good that you speak of contradiction. But I have just said precisely that you proposed this LNP and that we have made the order of aid precisely from the data and characteristics that come out of the operations of that LNP. And speak to me of contradictions so that they are now through your friendly union proposing that you challenge all this and that we have to be valuing the changes, so what do you want me to tell you? I what if I can tell you is that we clearly support the beef cow that has viability. And at that time, according to the regulations that in certain cases it states that under a minimum number, whether it is from suckler cows or any other matter it is possible to establish that there is no aid, because we decided that there should be a long-term route of viability. And our objective, of course, is the survival of a sector in which we are currently — as you know — working on the strategy of the meat sector, which is strategic for the Rural Environment Council and which we have to try to achieve — as I say — that long-term survival and viability. And I would like to value the effort that has been made, which has also been an effort of all the Greeks and the Greeks, and we speak of 7 million euros that have benefited more than four thousand six hundred farms. We speak of four thousand six hundred whose owners and holders consider themselves professional and live mostly of this activity, which is also what you and the Galician Labour Union defended in terms of the conception of the aid of the first pillar of the CAP. In this way, we focused on the resources on holdings that we understood were those that had the greatest viability and long-term economic sustainability. Look: we will continue to work for the beef cow and for the whole of the primary sector. And, as I said before, in the defence career of our primary sector, every effort is little to reach the goal. But I don't want to finish this shift or the answer to this question without moving them that to the Rural Councillory the beef beef sector, linked to the Protected Geographical Indication of Ternera Galicia, has a strategic character and will be the object of preferential attention in budgets and on the political lines of this council in different areas. And I point out as main: the provision of the most territorial base for our livestock with the instruments of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act, which was born precisely for that, to give territorial base to our livestock farmers; the encouragement of training and research for the future of all these livestock and cattle farmers within the strategy of the meat sector; in the short term — I say it clearly — a new line of direct aid that would offset the increase in production costs that our livestock are suffering; as medium- and long-term measures that give stability to the sector, the setting up of the instruments intended to achieve the objective of having the proper price for the sale of their animals; and, last but not least, the decided promotion of that which is the meat of the protected geographical indication Ternera Gallega, with a campaign that was presented at the advice of the last week of 1.4 million euros. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u337	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece in order to overcome the difficulties that Galicia is experiencing in the execution of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u338	You have the word of Mrs. Teresa Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u339	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We are also going to talk about funds from the FEMMP, the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, which is the European Union's financial instrument for support for fisheries and maritime policies for the period 2014-2020. The legal framework shall be laid down in Regulation 508/2014 and the common provisions for the European Structural and Investment Funds in Regulation 1303/2013. The background combines direct and shared management modes. The shared management mode would be that the Member States of the European Commission jointly administer 89% of the Union's contribution to ensure consistency between the objectives of the European Union itself and the Member States and their priorities. What the FEMP intends to achieve is integrated into a hierarchy of objectives, which are thus established at a higher level by the European Strategy 2020, the European Structural and Investment Funds, the common fisheries policy policies and the integrated marine policy. A heinous string that no doubt also complicates much of what the execution of these funds is. Now, the inclusion of the FEMMP in the political framework for European structural and investment funds changes the rules of the game. He added extra layers, which also give FEMP complexity. So the administrative complexity also increases, the administrative burden also increases, and the new requirements and procedures to which it has been adapted also contribute to that degree of execution. Sometimes you don't understand these delays in the execution of funds, you don't understand them because -- as I said and as I explained in a minute now -- it's very complicated. And sometimes you blame those who don't, and I guess it'll be because you don't understand what all these procedures are like either. The German Government has already taken note of this complex procedure before questions from the opposition, and we know that the Union is involved and is committed to doing everything in its hands to overcome the difficulties or obstacles that arise. Today, Counsellor, we want to ask you: what has the Government done to overcome the difficulties that Galicia is experiencing in the execution of the FEMP? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Reply by the sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, very late. As you well say, Mrs Egerique, if all European funds are complicated in their execution, the European Maritime Fisheries Fund is in a special way. It should be noted that this fund has already had problems to start; that is, this fund has entered into force on 21 May 2014 and the operational programme for the Government of Spain has not been approved until 17 November 2015, and the specifics have not been approved to be able to select projects for Spain also until May 2016. That already gives an idea of the difficulty we've had to put this background in motion two years late since the execution of all the funds started. Generally speaking, the execution problems and the implementation of this background could be grouped into four blocks. The first one would have to do with the axillation difficulty due to the temporary difficulties of the execution extension. In general, the execution of funds from the FEMMP leads to the overlap of the European regulations you have cited, but also the state and autonomy related not only to the common fisheries policy and to the very contents of this regulation, but also to everything that has to do with the granting of aid, subsidies and the various administrative processes. In a second block we could frame all those issues that have to do with simplification, based on clarification of the terms applicable to the various aids. In a third paragraph there would be all those issues that are related to the inclusion of beneficiaries, or, what is the same, determine who has the right to aid and who does not. And this is complicated because what was meant by the regulation was to make a general rule for the whole of the European Union without taking into account the specificities of each region or basin. And in the room it would have the necessary adaptation that leads to the ease of execution, to the application of the FEMP funds and to the interrelationship that this application has with the regulations, because there are already generating practical aspects that are likely to improve that they are detecting as we process files. So, as you can see, there are many of the conditions we have had to make it difficult for the FEMP fund to run, and we work to make these difficulties correct in the new FEMPA. Let's hope so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u343	Thank you, advisor, for the information and the explanations, which really complicate the execution of these funds. This certainly coincides with what the sector transmits to us. And we believe that they must be addressed directly. Besides, we want these funds to also serve to change and improve and that they can be executed. That is, all these explanations too can, as far as possible, be a much simpler process in the future. Besides, we not only have to act on that background, but we have to extend it to the next FEMPA, as you just said at the end of your intervention. This is not only about the Union, but also about the performance of the governments of Spain, and also about Brussels. It is that many times the evas must be solventized considering the action of those who can relate to the decision-making framework, which can correct them before they get here. In this case I have to ask: who would be, the Government of Spain? But today we are, as you know, Mrs Quintana, questioning the Government of Galicia. We want to know and that you explain and leave us here some clarifications of the execution of this background. But it's true that in every step that has to go through, all administrations should apply those agilitys and try to end those eaves, which are the ones that complicate their own execution. The questions we want to ask you, in order to finish, are: what questions has the Galician Union promoted to improve efficiency in the implementation of funds? What question has he asked or made in front of Brussels to move forward in that improvement? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u345	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, we've had several meetings and sent information, and we've been working for four years. And we have made some suggestions that we hope they will solve within the new FEMPA to all these issues that we detect this year. With regard to agileization, we understand that it would be very important for the approved operational programme for each state to analyse the regulations and identify which rules would apply to each of the dossiers to be processed. As far as simplification is concerned, we understand that it should be clearly and simply determined what the applicability of aid is and who would be the beneficiaries of the different aid. Also in the third element would be inclusion. And we believe that we cannot make a regulation that is unanimous throughout the European Union, but that we must take into account the specificities — as I said — of each region or basin. We have to understand, for example, that walking seafood is a singularity of Galicia and that at the bottom of the FEMP it was not contemplated. And we understand that at the bottom FEMPA must be because it's one of the needs of our sector. And also adapt the rules applicable to the whole sector. There have been cases of fighting against illegal undeclared and unregulated fishing — which we have been fighting since minute one — but that doesn't mean that having a deemed serious penalty of EUR 250 prevents a person who wants to develop a business project from accessing an aid of EUR 200,000. You can see that there is a disproportion between the sanction imposed and the impossibility of accessing these aids. Sometimes it gives the feeling that the European Union makes funds available, but then it makes so many administrative obstacles that it is difficult to convince the sector that it is encouraging to file files. And, as you know, within the board itself already in March last year, we created a specific sub-direction to verify all the files and contribute to the agility in administrative processing being a reality. Let's hope that with this we can have a much more favorable execution from the new FEMPA. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-25-DSPG084.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Well, two full here, and the truth is, I have to say that quite productive, and full that we should remember. Yes, I'll explain why; it's just a second, I won't take them long. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We have made an elective process, among them, the election of the first vice president, here beside me, to whom I wish you luck in this task, which begins to be complicated. There was a debut of a new president of the Union; something that had never happened, and that's why we must remember it too. [[Murmurs.]] And even we had a very important level of consensus, because of the six non-legislative proposals that were debated, four reached a consensus, either full or not without votes against, and that must also be emphasized. [[Murmurs.]] So I congratulate you on that level of consensus. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
